ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3281	Ladies and gentlemen! I can give you a very warm welcome to 127. I would like to welcome the meeting which I am opening here. I welcome the media representatives at the gallery and the ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens. The Official Protocol of 124. Meeting of 12. October 2021 is in the Parliament's management and has not been challenged. As prevented are reported today the MEPs Nico Marchetti, Ing. Reinhold Einwallner, Elisabeth Feichtinger, BEd BEd, Sabine Schatz, Alois Kainz, Peter Wurmund Michel Reimon, MBA. [[09:04:18]] Angelobung
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3339	The Federal Election Authority has issued a notice that Mr Sebastian Kurz has been re-allocated to the mandate he has given on the occasion of his appointment as Federal Chancellor. In this way, Members Irene Neumann-Hartberger have been expelled from the National Council. Since the election is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make the fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by writing, the new Member will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. I should like to ask the author, Mr Gahr, to read the text of the vow.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3375	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.” [[Abg. Sebastian Kurz is doing the fishing with the words “I Praise”.]] [[Prolonged applause with the ÖVP and congratulation with the greens.]] [[09:05:21]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3416	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr. Michael Linhart is the Federal Minister for Women, Family, Youth and Integration MMag. Dr. Susanne Raab. In addition, with regard to the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union, I should like to announce the following: Federal Chancellor Mag. Alexander Schallenberg, LL.M. will be by Vice Chancellor Mag. Werner Kogler. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3470	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3592	Members Cornelia Ecker, colleagues and colleagues have called for urgent consideration of the written question 8234/J by Mrs Krainer, colleagues to the Federal Chancellor on the "Close with Schredders - Enlightenment instead of the destruction of files, Mr Bundeskanzler!". Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. I announce that this meeting will be held from ORF 2 to 1 p.m., from ORF III to 7.15 p.m. and then – as usual – in the TV library. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3622	In order to be able to negotiate item 28 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the setting up of the Committee's report. This is the report of the Committee on Immunities on the request of the Council of Magistrates of the City of Vienna for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Dr. Martin Graf (1097 of the Supplements). I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to give their agreement to the withdrawal from the time-limit for this committee report. – That is unanimous. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3649	It is also proposed that the debates on points 2 and 3, 7 to 10, 15 to 19 and 20 to 27 of the agenda should be summarized. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3670	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure, a day-blocking period of 9,5 ‘Vienna hours’ was agreed, so that the following speaking times would arise: 185 for the ÖVP, 128 for the SPÖ, 105 for the FPÖ, 95 for the Greens and 76 for the NEOS, each in minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 GoG is the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, 38 minutes each. The debate time is limited by 5 minutes. I have the right to vote on the speaking time. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This too is unanimously adopted. Let's go into the agenda. [[09:08:29]] 1. Point First reading: Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2022 (Federal Finance Act 2022 – BFG 2022) and Appendices (1034 A.D.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3719	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Member of the Wöginger has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3746	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I devote myself to the 2022 budget, I would like to welcome our Federal Party Minister and Clubobmann to our ranks of representatives of the Austrian People's Party. On Monday evening he was elected unanimously by the MEPs to our clubman. – Dear Sebastian Kurz, welcome to our series! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also my concern to thank a Member who has held this mandate until now: our Irene Neumann-Hartberger, our federal farmer, who has done excellent work here in the high house and will continue to be a federal farmer. For us, it is a real necessity to say thank you from this point of view, for her work and for all that she does and will continue to do. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying a few words on the 2022 budget, entitled ‘Rising, Stability and Sustainability’, even in the last one and a half years. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We have just brought behind us the biggest economic crisis since the Second World War. We're still in the pandemic management process, it's not over yet, but one thing we can say: We have managed to survive this economic crisis, which has been the largest ever since the Second World War. We've mastered her well. This is particularly due to one thing: that we have invested heavily in the time of the crisis, that we have protected people from the pandemic, and that we have also supported the people, the entire population, so that we can get through this crisis well. – Mr Finanzminister, thank you, above all, for more than EUR 40 billion invested in this crisis period, which we have provided to people. I just mention the short work, I call the numerous measures in the form of assistance, and I also mention the first steps we have taken in discharge. The success is now marked by this economic upturn that we have. It was the right policy, I would like to stress at the outset. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the economy is booming. Who would have thought that a few months ago? We are now forecast to grow 4.4 percent by the economic research institutes – in spring it was still 1.5 percent. We are glad that the development is taking this course. Revenue increases by almost 7 percent. Last year, we had more than 5 percent infalls. What we can say about this financial framework – and this is important – is: In recent years, under Sebastian Kurz's main responsibility, we have budgeted twice as German Chancellors, and this is also the basis for us to take this money and make these investments. We are moving back to 70 percent by 2025 with the debt ratio. This is sustainable, ladies and gentlemen, this is a sustainable financial and budgetary policy! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] We set a great focus, which is certainly one of the major milestones in this government programme: It is the eco-social tax reform. As a People's Party, we have been committed to the eco-social market economy for 30 years, and we must bring sustainability into the system. [[Inter-calls by the Deputies Rauch and Meinl-Risinger.]] – Yes, Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, that was Joschi Riegler, since you were not yet in Parliament. [[New call of the abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Joschi Riegler set up the eco-social market economy 30 years ago, and this is a success recipe. [[Mr Hafenecker and Mr Loacker's calls.]] Climate protection is now being done with home mind. On the one hand, we have prepared the greatest discharge in the Second Republic for all people in this country, especially for the working people. We lower the tax rates. We increase the family bonus, which is at all a success story in the tax relief of our families. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] We increase the family bonus from 1,500 to 2 000 euros and also the amount of children to 450 euros. All families with children, ladies and gentlemen benefit from this. We are continuing this successful course with this tax reform. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Examples say more than just saying that you lower taxes. I give you an example: a partnership – the man deserves 1 900 euros gross, the woman 1 800 euros gross, they have a child, shared family bonus, they are resident in Vienna. This family comes with a total relief of EUR 1 309 per year, including regional bonus and child surcharge. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is the greatest discharge we have ever made in this Second Republic. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Of course, we also relieve pensioners and all those who earn less. We have already reduced taxes so far that there are many people who do not pay any more taxes. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We lower the health insurance contributions, so that even those groups who earn less or who have less to live – we have this in the ranks of pensioners who have worked hard for a lifetime but still have very little income – we have more money to live and so that we can also make more money available to them. [[Call the SPÖ:... have worked for a lifetime!]] This is the social responsibility that we perceive, and above all we support people with lower incomes. This is also the approach to this tax reform. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I am particularly pleased that employee participation has found the way in this budget and in this tax reform. 3 000 euros per year tax-free and social security-free to be able to pay to employees in a company – that is the right statement. We've been doing this for some time during the corona pandemic. It's just like this: The money then arrives directly with the employees, and that is what we want – not that half of it ends up in the financial resort or in social insurance, but that it ends up in the wallets of employees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] This is a success participation, as we imagine it, and that is why we are implementing it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we also strengthen the location, and we confess to that. I don't understand that the Köst reduction is so critical. We have many control companies, and we have Zig thousands of GmbHs, which also benefit from this tax reduction. I remember very well: When we lowered corporate tax from 34 to 25 percent under Wolfgang Schüssel, there was a huge call, similar to what we are now. What was the result? – We only had a two-year break in revenue, then the revenue went up vertically, because the reduction in this rate was so attractive to the location that many companies have settled. What if many companies settle? – Then we get thousands of jobs in addition to our country. We want to continue to have an attractive economic location, because that also brings jobs, that brings research, that brings innovation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It also helps small businesses in particular: the increase in the profit-free amount to 13 percent or also that the low-valued assets can now be written down at 1 000 euros, no more at 800 euros, and a volume for an investment-free amount. The investment premium we created during the corona pandemic has triggered a boom and the economy last At the end of the day, there was an incentive to this great extent, so that this engine really got under way. It is therefore useful to continue to support these investments. Of course, we also support our agriculture. Our farmers receive the additional expenditure for the diesel they need, because without a tractor the farmer cannot operate – that is a basic law. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] We are proud of our agriculture, the domestic production of our food, which is made available in high quality. This is why agriculture will be reimbursed with the additional price of diesel. This is also true for many areas of the economy, as no one can choose whether to need a excavator or a truck. These are things that are also pictured. The donor also needs his car, ladies and gentlemen! That is why these refunds exist. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Climate protection with home mind – we confess to this: to the CO2 prize that is being introduced, and above all to the regional climate bonus. It's a good result for a while, but it's a good one: from 100 to 200 euros, and for the children there's another 50 percent supplement. Ladies and gentlemen, this is climate protection with home mind. [[Abg. Hafenecker:...not for the...!]] We know that we need to make sustainable economies that we must take ecological principles seriously – that is not a question. This is what we can do with this eco-social tax reform. [[Abg. Hafenecker:...red!]] There are still many points and many areas for which we have a lot of money in the budget – including in the area of safety, in the area of the federal army, also in the field of health and care, where of course we are still facing challenges – but this budget is the basis for the coming time. It is sustainable, it assures us stability, and it will also support the upturn in one direction, so that we can continue to live in a country where prosperity is assured and where economic development can spread well. That is, as we assume our responsibility, also in this Federal Government: that it goes well in Austria and that we give people what they need – on the one hand discharge and on the other, ecological sustainability. That's what we're confessing. It's a good budget, so you agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3966	Mrs Klubobfrau Pamela Rendi-Wagner has been reported to speak. - Please, the word is with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3987	Mr President. Dear Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! We heard yesterday's budget speech from the Minister of Finance. Unfortunately, we have not heard a lot of new things, we have actually not heard much at all, and that, although a budget is actually – you have said, Mr Wöginger – the essential basis for political work and the essential political instrument should be to set a course for the future of our country and to set a course for meeting the great challenges of our time. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Jewellery beaters: You should have been more careful!]] Is this pictured in this budget? Do we think that's exactly what this budget is doing? – No, Mr Finanzminister, and you will not be surprised that we have this view. We heard a sentence from you yesterday, however, that was the sentence: The working people were relieved. [[Call the ÖVP:Bravo!]] [[Further call to the ÖVP.]] – This is wrong, Minister of Finance, because the working people are paying for this tax reform, which you have presented as an essential part of your budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It was the hardworking people of Austria who, since 2016, have been paying higher taxes since the last tax reform – then under Werner Faymann – through the cost up to today and thus filled your cash registers. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Lindinger]] Now do they get exactly what they have paid too much – tag cold progression – back? – No, they get a part back; not even everything you have paid, but only a part. If you say, Mr Wöginger, that people will be relieved, and you predict that this is more than 1 000 euros a year, then you have to say that this is not the same for everyone. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fürlinger.]] There is a very different approach, because the greatest profit from this tax reform is made by those people who make more than EUR 5,000 gross. The same applies to the children's bonus. That is exactly the unfair situation that your tax reform represents. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A real discharge looks different. A real discharge would also mean giving people the money back if they really and most urgently need it, and that is now. It would therefore be necessary to make retroactive use of these overpaid taxes not only next year, Mr. Finanzminister, but already with 1. To reduce the burden of people immediately on July 2021. Why? – Because it would now be necessary to give people more money to live, because now the price increase in Austria, the price increase on a record high – as high as it has been for 11 years. There are two prize drivers – you know that. On the one hand, that's living. Living has become more expensive in recent years for families, couples, singles, students. Of course, it is most common to families who need the largest living space. [[call to the FPÖ.]] By Corona these prices have exploded once again. This applies to the tenants as well as the owners. In addition, the energy costs are rising, we know that too, and they continue to rise in the coming months and this winter. Experts expect 500 euros of extra burden in 2022 for family households with electricity and gas. The price increase is already over 3 percent. Life costs more and more. This enormous cost increase is now burdening the people of Austria, especially the families. In part, the people lost their job through Corona, or were in short work for months, yes, for a year and thus had great financial losses and problems. I have not heard any sustainable measures in your budget speech yesterday to combat this wave of inflation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Salzmann.]] There is now a need for a more expensive brake for the people in Austria. The tax reform and the budget would be the chance to finally remove this sustainable energy brake for Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, a real gift in your budget and in your tax reform is the reduction of corporate taxes. Of course, not all entrepreneurs in our country benefit from this. [[Abg. Haubner: Here I am excited about the economic executions! ... Location policy, right?! Do you understand location policy?- Oh, my God!]] It is 5 percent of Austria's largest companies that benefit from this Köst reduction – over 1 billion euros per year. [[Abg. Haubner: Location policy is called that, safeguarding jobs! One prevents deductions from companies! I don't know!]] A lot of money, little effect: That is what the representatives of the medium-sized economy say, not only about social democracy. “Small companies don’t have that much of it.” – Do you know who said that? The President of the Austrian Hoteliers' Association has noted this. [[Abg. Haubner: Go!]] The Austrian tax pot, in which all the hard-working people, including the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, also the pensioners, are paid monthly, is shamelessly seized with both hands. Billions will be removed from this tax pot to give it a few large corporations – without impact for Austria. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: All stupid...!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is money – over 1 billion euros! – which is in dividends and which does not create new jobs, Mr Wöginger, just as you claim that there is nothing to do with forward-looking investments, money that does not support and stimulate this economic upturn, which is just going on. No, it's a gift, and the perfide on it is: This is also paid by the working people of Austria, including the taxpayers of Austria, who already have to vote 80 percent of all tax revenue. [[Abg. Steinacker: This is business!]] [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: Such a fool!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, with these billions, with these gifts to the big corporations, child care could be extended throughout the world. 1.2 billion euros, Mr. Kurz, 2016 and 2017 were taken away, stolen and destroyed from the children and the families of Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It would now have been a chance to eliminate this error with this budget and return it to the billions for the expansion of childcare in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Beak]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Beak.]] With these billions one could almost eliminate unemployment in Austria, one could move in with a less expensive brake, which is so necessary, so that after this difficult period of time life can be controlled again. These billions could also end the care emergency in Austria – which is essential. But it seems that it has been ruled out on the turquoise side, because of caregivers and respect for these professions, Mr. Finanzminister, there is little to see in your budget! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] With these billions, climate change could be fought not only superficially, but sustainablely – and this is not found in your budget. So it's anything but a sign of the future for Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The turquoise-green budget, which no longer provides for care – this is a forget of the future that is looking for the same thing as it is: 25 million euros more for care for 2025. Do you know how many billions the economy gets, especially through the cost reduction? – 1.5 billion euros in the economy, 25 million euros in care; 1.5 billion euros in the economy – the 75 times! There's something wrong with that, Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are addressing – we are not discussing this for the first time in this House – an absolute emergency of care. Experts expect us to need up to 100,000 nurses in addition – not a statement for this! – that is why care should be a central part of your budget, but with 25 million euros, Minister of Finance, it is not possible to combat this care emergency! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you would have had it in your hand. This budget could have been an opportunity for Austria. It is a question of respect to ensure sustainable care for all people. It is a question of the propensity to return the 1.2 billion euros taken to children and families with this budget in 2016 and 2017. It is a question of justice to return to the working people what they have paid too much in the tax pot over the past five years, and to allow them to live their lives again. It is a question of reason to finally come to sustainable climate action. Yes, it costs money, and that should have been done specifically and not just with headlines and mass taxes without steering effects. This budget would have been a chance. This opportunity has been given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4225	Mr Klubobmann Kickl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4247	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today's meeting has begun with a vow by a new Member, and I think that is a very, very nicer one that is a very, very high act for all of us. I think that all of us who sit here should also take this opportunity to think briefly about what the content is, what meaning and what the meaning of this vow is; this is because it is much, much more than a hollow phrase, as an empty formula, because it should actually be what our work here in this high house is about. What was praised here today? – It was praised, first, the fidelity to the Republic of Austria – the fidelity to the Republic of Austria! I would like to point out at this point that this Republic of Austria is something different from the deep state of the turquoise People's Party. This is not just something else, but one has to go one step further: It is this Republic of Austria which, in the form of its investigative authorities, is against this turquoise state. This and nothing else is the reason for the fact that some prominent representative of a former state-bearing party has been visited by the investigative authorities. Secondly, it was praised: Watch the laws. The observation of the laws does not mean that from a distance as far as possible, perhaps with binoculars or a binoculars, one looks at these laws, such as a foreign, an exotic, perhaps even a dangerous being, but observation of the laws means that one has to keep them on track, just as the same applies to all other citizens, for example, when one makes a testimonies somewhere. Thirdly, it was praised: strict compliance with obligations. Conscientious compliance does not refer to the code of honour of a turquoise Cosa Nostra, but means much, much more the abandonment of it. If we take it seriously as a representative of this House, we must fulfil our duty to the Republic, and therefore the abandonment of a code of honour, under quotations. All of this was praised. To the extent that each and every one of us here fills this promise with life and then is credible and has internalized, the voters will ultimately have to decide against the background of the current events. I would just like to say one word on the current occasion: It is true that not every absence that ends after three days is also a resurrection. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, today – and you really have to congratulate the editorial team – I brought the “profile” with you. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. October this year, I think, is a piece – how to say? – Austrian history of time. The front page is known, that's the short version of all that happened, you don't have to go into it anymore. [[The speaker keeps the magazine “Profile” up to date, on whose front page the title “The Deep Fall of Sebastian Kurz” and a picture of Sebastian Kurz can be seen.]] I think the back is much more interesting because it leads us into the budget debate and because, so to speak, we have a Corpus Delicti. [[the back of that magazine, on which under the headings “Now Austria’s Great Deliverance Package” and “The Greatest Redemption in the 2. Republic!” a bundle of fiftieuro notes and among them the logo of the Federal Ministry of Finance are to be seen, keeping in height]] We have illustrated here what the problem is, about which we are discussing today and for a week in this country, namely that tax money from the Ministry of Finance, Mr Blümel, is used by you to manipulate and misinform your own population. [[In the case of the FPÖ, the members of the NEOS and the Agg. Krainer.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] That's what it says: Now Austria's big tax reform is coming – now! This is already a few days old, and we know – we have listened carefully in the previous debates – it does not come now, but it comes at best on 1st. July of next year. These ads have not only been placed here, but in many, many newspapers. It has been thrown out again. I am not now making the “profile” the accusation that other media are in the room, namely that in other media one could take such ads into a newspaper, then determine what was written in it. The “profile” cannot be made of this accusation; other media have a certain need for explanation. Now we are in the good situation – that's why this is a piece of time story – that if you take this magazine apart and read it from left to right, you have a summary of what has actually happened since 2016, and the result of it. [[keeping the front and back of the published magazine in close proximity to each other]] [[Rejoicing with members of FPÖ and NEOS]] That is why this item is 41 of the 10. October 2021, from my point of view, a piece of Austrian history of time. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have already called the 2022 budget the largest mogel pack in the Second Republic in the last few days, simply because it is. I can also formulate it with a different concept, which many, many critics, including the Freedom Party, repeatedly bring into the political debate: In fact, it's a swirling budget. It is a swirling budget because your stories of discharge on the one hand and of any ecological steering effects on the other are bar of any evidence, and something that is bar of any evidence is generally called in times like this swirl. Let us take a closer look at: For example, what about social justice? What about the little people? How is it that the people who have built this country have brought prosperity to this country, which is now being driven into ruin by scandals, one by one, and by a completely supplanted corona policy from my point of view? What about social justice? For example, on the one hand take a minimum pensioner and on the other hand a big earner and compare the two things! First of the big earners: A fictitious example – in this case, one writes fictitiously with bird-V like folk party –, Stefan S.: Stefan S. is an independent strategy advisor of a supposed state-bearing party whose founding fathers are currently rotating in the grave. He has an advisory agreement of over 33 000 euros gross per month. He lives in Vienna and has three children. Now, if you look at how it benefits from this tax reform, you can see that by reducing the tax rate per year 1 230 euros more, through the child bonus you get 1 500 euros more, and by means of the climate bonus there is another 250 euros above. This together makes a discharge or a profit for this Mr. Stefan S. of EUR 3 000 a year. I'd like to say a good plus to someone I'd say in my political sense that he doesn't need it at all. Now let's see how the minimum pensioner is on the other side! How's this one? – It has a gross pension of 1 000 euros per month. From this gross pension, 950 euros remain net. The planned reduction in health insurance contributions brings you 236 euros, and for the climate bonus there is because the lady lives in Vienna, 100 euros – makes 336 euros a year. I do not have to have the mathematical talent of Mr Taschner so that I can calculate that this is not even 1 euro per day over the year, and since the tax reform next year only comes with 1. You have to halve this once again on July. Thus, in the coming year 2022, in which there is this greatest relief of all times, as you can place very, very much tax money, this minimum pensioner per day less than 50 cents. – This is the largest tax reform of the Second Republic for which the Austrian People’s Party and the Greens can be celebrated in advertisements. Ladies and gentlemen, from my point of view, this is a shame! [[Complementary with FPÖ and SPÖ.]] We know that this great discharge is only going to strike in the middle of next year. But what is it now? What is it now? – It is now rolling a huge wave of stress across the country! Even now, for example, the food is becoming more expensive – massively expensive, colleague Wöginger, the basic food, not the watchman and not the caviar and truffle from the gourmet department of Mr. Rosam. It is not these things that become more expensive, but the basic foods, not the Asian specialities of Mr Ho, no, the basic foods. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] I do not know if you do not see all this and if you do not think of these things, while at the same time investing hundreds of thousands of euros in tax money, for example, in Mr Rosam's gourmet magazine, which does not need a human being at such a time of crisis, probably because he does propaganda work for you in television. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] But the food is only a component – now it is. Even now: massive increases in fuel prices. If you compare it with the previous year: plus 27 percent for Diesel, plus 26 percent for Eurosuper, plus 26 percent for normal petrol. – That's what the drivers do, and that's what the commuters do. That's what they do, and I'm not talking about your next attacks, which are planned: Removal of the pendulum fee, that is the next heavy blow; deletion of the diesel privilege, that will come. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: That's not true!]] In the field of service balances, there will be a change which, of course, is to the detriment of those concerned, and if you are talking about fighting fuel tourism in Austria, then that means that it is translated into a language that everyone understands, that the spray becomes more expensive again. That means it, and that's the second part of an attack on the drivers and at all, on the economy that you started with the NoVA increase. They have taken advantage of the vehicles that the small merchants – the installer, the bakers, the carpenters – need in order to do their daily work, in an irresponsible way, so that they are forced to consume, logically, their products, which have to be transported – that is, everything has a way of going –; and this adventure then ends up with the people who can no longer afford all of this now. They keep a chain reaction of the negative in motion with their alleged discharge measures, all of which prove to be burdens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Next, the ORF fee: plus 8 percent. In Vienna, for example, this is 315 Euro 341 Euro instead of so far. This is now the admission price for a turquoise Director-General in the ORF – a rich plus, as I mean. What makes the whole thing more dramatic, I mean, what is an act of irresponsibility and what is happening now – here and now, as we debate here – is the explosion of energy prices. The energy prices are falling to the height, especially in the time when it becomes cold and dark outside. People are desperate. They are desperate because they now find all over their mailboxes the letters of information from energy suppliers, which state that prices are now being adjusted, which means nothing more than that there are massive increases. All of this already exists before this great discharge of 50 cents per day for the minimum pensioner in Austria becomes reality. All of this already exists, and we know from the employees of these energy supply companies that they are themselves completely affected because letters are constantly coming with the request for support, with the request for interest payments, because people are afraid that they are sitting in a cold, dark apartment, because everything is getting more expensive around it – I am thinking, for example, of the municipal charges in Vienna – and all of this, even before only a single measure of your conversion of the energy system towards renewable energy has become reality. This is not yet priced, and this will be the next very massive wave of energy consumption. Ladies and gentlemen! This is certainly not a great achievement that can be used for social reasons, and it is also a serious attack on the economic operators in that country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One thing is added – you have to say that: The energy suppliers are mostly in public hands. EVN, Wiener Stadtwerke, the association – that belongs to the Republic, that belongs to the countries! That is to say, in the first line, because Turquoise and Red cash among the poorest of the poor instead of taking a measure that people do not get under the wheels in view of energy prices. Looking at this budget, I wonder: Don't you see all this, Minister of Finance? Don't you see all this? And why don't you help people when you see all of this? Why is there no – urgently necessary – compensation for the cost? Why is there no price stop in food? Why is there no abolition of the ORF charges, just as we actually made it up to each other? On the other hand, why take out the money for futility such as these ads of the self-devotion brand that I have shown you? – It would be much more reasonable to finally fulfill the promise and to send to the heroes of the Corona crisis – that is, once and for all, like a mantra – a fair payout. – Nothing like that, nothing! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Quite honestly, because I am in the stupidities – and I mean it symbolically, because it is the head of the state and since it is always claimed that one should look at it very carefully and act exemplaryly –: Is it really necessary for the Federal President to receive 2 million euros with his presidency office next year? What's that? – An emergency allowance for crisis management, which he has to do all the time, because you have re-absorbed it? What's that? - Is that some kind of silence money to make him behave? – The presidency office has the disadvantage of not being able to advertise. What's that? I also do not understand the President of the Federal Republic of Germany that he accepts this money; or does he accept it because he may need strategy advisor for the next election campaign? There are some, and they cost expensive money. Perhaps this is the background, but honestly one could have saved these 2 million euros. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Is it really your serious that, after all that has been done, the Federal Chancellery, of which we now know that it is the epicenter of manipulation of the Austrian population – with this media staff you have established there, and with the think tank – will again receive 22 million euros next year according to the budget? Yes You didn't learn anything from the events of the last days and weeks? Is there not a moment of reflection in which you say yourself: That's not how it goes, so we can't go on!? – It must be so, otherwise there would not be plus 22 million euros inside. That is irresponsible, and it is immoral above all! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One more, my Ladies and gentlemen: We have already said that this so-called relief of the working population is paid by this working population itself, through the cold progression. That means there is nothing left, this discharge will be eaten away. It will be eaten away like the credibility of the turquoise People's Party by every step of the investigation authorities – that is about the same system. But I'm just telling you one thing: It must also be borne in mind that your excess coronary policy, these billions of euros of debt you have made, leads to a large amount of money depreciation. This means that the savers will no longer receive interest from the bank for what they have put aside for difficult times. This means that people who have completed life insurance are less likely to find out than they might have expected. This means that people who have taken a pension scheme so that they do not have to live in poverty in old age will be able to find out less than all of these things were discussed at the end. But you do so without need, because you are throwing out the money for so-called corona measures, which would not be necessary if you were to deal with things proportionately. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One last thing: From my point of view, the budget fits very well into the maintenance order you have issued in recent weeks, which reads as follows: The show must go on! – That is, I think, the endurance parole that was issued there. This means that the Austrian population has not yet been cheated enough, damaged enough and manipulated enough. It continues with the message manipulation coin, this time at the level of the budget. But I have a great comfort in the whole thing: While this show is being subtracted here, first of all also from the Minister of Finance, perhaps there is a small bird somewhere else. Maybe a bird's in the hands of justice. And you know what? – I say it free to Shakespeare: For the Turkish People's Party, what's going on there is probably a nightingale – after that it gets darker and darker, and in the end it's deep black night. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For the friends of democracy and rule of law, that's what's going on there, but it's a lesson. The Lerche announces a beautiful morning, at the beginning of a radiant day full of cleanliness and propriety.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4396	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4418	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Today we have a budget debate with very many speeches, with very many individual chapters, we have all been delivered the so-called budget tiles – that is a very large pile of paper – and of course there is a need for some expertise to be able to read this budget. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] We in Parliament have the budget service, which supports our honourable Members in doing so. In particular, we want to highlight our highlights from this budget in our speeches. [[Abg. Belakovich: What highlights?- Oh, my God!]] How and what the Austrian Federal Government invests in, for which the tax money is used, is all about – the kindergarten child, the student or the student, the entrepreneurs, the artists, the artists, the nurses or pensioners, the large families, the single parents, just everyone. To all of you, we have the responsibility to make these figures a future in this great budget tile. We invest, we modernise and we reform. We do all of this out of responsibility for Austria, from responsibility to the population, from responsibility to our voters and from responsibility to taxpayers, and we do so in this budget with ecological, social and economic responsibility. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The last budget was very strongly influenced by the pandemic. Now, despite pandemic, we can show a sustainable budget and also a medium-term debt ratio. This budget estimate reflects the orientation of the eco-social tax reform – which my colleague Jakob Schwarz will then address in detail – but the central point is of course that climate-damaging behaviour will be awarded for the first time and that people in Austria will receive a reward for climate-friendly behaviour at the same time as those who are unable to behave climate-friendlyly will not be punished, and those who have the choice, for example, to drive the public will be left out of the climate bonus. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] I would like to take a few highlights out of this budget, which are particularly important to us Greens On the one hand, it is about the responsibility for climate and our nature. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] With this budget, the transition towards climate protection is made as easy and as cheap as ever before, for example with the EUR 252 million for the climate ticket. The air-conditioning ticket will be available from 26. All the public, with all the trains of the ÖBB throughout Austria – in every city, in every federal state – can be used. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Of course, this budget also includes investments such as the continuation of the ÖBB Framework Plan of 17.5 billion euros – the largest railway expansion package ever – as well as the promotion of electric mobility or the promotion of climate-friendly freight transport. However, we not only have responsibility for climate and nature, but we also have responsibility for democracy and the rule of law. You remember that we have already saved Austria with the last budget from the silent death of the justice system, which has been warned of for many years. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With this budget, we are also strengthening the staffing equipment, which is of course important so that the judicial system can carry out its good, important, independent work. However, additional funds are also being made available for measures to combat terrorism or to modernise the execution of sanctions and measures, for example, EUR 15 million for the Göllersdorf Justice Centre, so that we can continue. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In this budget, there is as much money for the protection of violence as never before. There is an increase of 20.6 million euros in total, and this is urgently necessary, because it is both about prevention and, of course, also about the family and child protection centres. That's where we really made a big jump. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Of course, we also have a responsibility for a good relationship. This concerns, for example, the good care of our children, the development of all day schools, better kindergartens – we only had a Council of Ministers presentation last Wednesday to renegotiate the 15a agreement – mandatory standards for countries, quality standards for countries; we will also take on a lot of money for that, and we decided a resolution yesterday. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A very, very central issue, which will concern us in the next few years or many more, is, of course, the care. – Mrs Rendi-Wagner, I don't know what you're reading from the budget, perhaps you need to study it a little more carefully: We have an increase of EUR 319 million in the social budget; the figures you mention here are simply not correct. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rendi-Wagner.]] More than EUR 2.8 billion is available for care and care benefits, for community education – i.e. for the direct support of local people to be cared for in the communities – and for the training of the nursing staff, additional EUR 50 million is budgeted, because we have to see more people get into this profession in order to create the big challenge of the next few years in this area. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Today we will hear many speeches on many other priorities that are set. It is a budget that is directed towards the future after a very difficult time, which guarantees us a sustainable Austria and a good future for the people of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4524	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4546	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators! – Mr Finance Minister and Mrs Maurer, in your speeches yesterday and even today, you have very often called the word future; I think your budget speech was entitled with: an announcement towards the future, and you have just emphasized this again. [[towards Abg. Maurer]] – Unfortunately, we do not see this future in the budget presented, and I would also like to explain why. I understand the desire for it, because I believe it is extremely important, especially in today's time, to look to the ability to see the future, to which, as we always say, the singular ability of politics; that politics not only has a horizon until the next election, this short-term horizon, has – and the legislative periods change almost every year – but that it is actually a single capable policy that is ready to take up reforms today that may not be so easy to have a better future for our children. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Going on, this budget presented is amazingly ambitious – ambitious! There is no real statement in this, and even with regard to the question of ecologizing the tax system, it is really just a narrow-track variant. That's what I'm going to do. I also heard from the previous speeches that there would be such a strong investment. – Well, the investments are marginal compared to state consumption. We have a situation – I would like to say this once – in which we know, for example, that investment in education is urgently needed. More and more, tasks of the education system are transferred to families – not only in pandemic times! – to families who are sufficiently disbursable enough to provide assistance, or, if you look at the field of teaching, to the middle class, to which entrepreneurs are transferred. The deficits in the state education system have families, the middle class has been caught. This is just an area I'm picking out, in which investment is urgently needed, but this does not take place according to your budget, because you are acting towards the future and prefer to look at state consumption. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Before I continue to do this, however, I would like to say one thing: Minister of Finance, I listened to you yesterday. At the beginning of your speech, you have addressed taxpayers. You said: Dear – or: I don't know that exactly anymore – taxpayers!, but later in your budget speech you didn't thank precisely those taxpayers. I listened carefully: You thanked the countries for thanking the communities, you thanked the mayors, but not the taxpayers. That's why I'm going to go after this today. Thank you, dear taxpayers, it is you who made this budget possible at all! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] They rely on taxpayers to go to work every day and to be diligent that they are innovative as entrepreneurs, have ideas, employ people, and that the money will be washed into the cash register. In fact, you spend the money of other people with your full hands, and the principle of left-hand bag-rights bag is really rewritten once again with this budget. I would also like to take a look at the potential for the future, in that of a solid budget, so that we say: Well, we'll end the debt. – Of course, we come from a phase of the crisis, but I do not want to prolong this crisis. In many speeches in the last few days I have just heard the desire to stumble from a crisis to the next. At the moment it looks very good, it is a booming time, the tax revenues are bubbling back thanks to taxpayers and taxpayers. Future policy would also have to reflect this in the budget accordingly. Countries like Switzerland – yes, I know it is Switzerland, but it is still our neighbouring country – are already able to generate a surplus. They are miles away from the turquoise-green government. Why is that so? – Because you lack courage and action. The volume that you take into your hands to finally relieve people – and they have to be relieved very urgently, especially the middle class, which really pays for everything in Austria, has to be relieved – is ultimately the money that has been washed into you by the cold progression. This is this left-hand pocket-right principle: a sluggish tax increase, which is then generous and returned to taxpayers in kind – partly – in a generous way. If a genuine, sustainable discharge were to be sought for future generations and, in particular, a sustainable discharge of the middle class, then – you know that – structural reforms would be needed. There's nothing to do with this, but there's nothing in your budget either. That's ambitious, that's impotent, and that's all but active. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The cold progression could have been abolished a long time ago, we have experienced that in the last few days. In addition to criminal matters, which are the case of justice, that is the most embarrassing thing for me: If you look into the files, you get the impression that politics is actually made exclusively for your own purpose, for a post to come to power, you win a choice. But what people actually expect to do is to make politics for people, for example, by abolishing the sluggish tax increase, the cold progression, one prefers to avoid, because this could somehow benefit another German Chancellor and another vice chancellor. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The cold progression is gone, you know – and it's been a long time. Now I come to the field of eco-social tax reform: Dear Greens, you know that in principle you have strong allies in us NEOS when it comes to making single, sustainable policies. Our model for an eco-social tax reform is still the most ambitious one in Austria and that is on the table. But what you're doing with a CO2 prize of 30 euros – we know that, and that's what all the experts tell you – has no effect. It does not have the steering effect you hope for, especially if you return it on the other side with an ecobonus, so to speak. [[Abg. Disoski: Building motorways...!]] It remains a purely tax increase, a new tax. Introduce new taxes, that has already been possible by past governments, and we have not needed Turkishs to do so. However, we do not get too much sustainable and ecological steps towards sustainability, which is clearly too little. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Maybe it's also this code word that I always hear out like this: Climate protection with home mind. Then I always think, dear August Wöginger, that house mind is – in quotation marks – “code word” for: Let's not do it anyway! – That’s what always stays with me. [[Abg. Wöginger: We do it!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Salzmann.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that politics must be unique, must be sustainable. I believe that politics is responsible for proving courage and action, even and especially for introducing structural reforms when it comes to saving itself in order to ensure that people do not get so much money out of their pocket, which is then generously returned. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] This forget of the future is really being rewritten. August Wöginger, you mentioned Wolfgang Schüssel: You can stand to him as you want, but he has at least taken on reforms that have – and there you can say that you think it is good or you don't like it – reforms, for example a pension reform, have been launched. But what will remain now? [[Call the FPÖ:Nothing!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] – Maintaining power as a self - that is too little. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It finally needs the new policy of a decent, defensive middle, and you will find this with us NEOS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4684	Member of the Upper Nosterer has been reported to speak. The word stands with him. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4705	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! I can read the budget, I'm a businessman. I have already read 15 budgets in this house. [[Abg. Brückl: That's the 15. Speech...!]] Whoever has really done exactly this and not only operates pure opposition,he knows exactly that this budget relieves the working people, the pensioners, that it ensures the location of Austria that it is a budget for the future and that it is not just managed as in the past, but that the government is shaping the future. [[Rejoicing with Members of the NEOS]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Read this carefully and look at the exact posts! When this budget and the eco-social tax reform were on the table for the first time, I looked at exactly how all three opposition parties had commented on it. I've been listening to colleagues Krainer: He said – typically class struggle – that the millionaires, the best earners are given the money and that it is taken away from the others, because in 2024 the Köst is reduced by 1 percent and in 2025 again by 1 percent. In total, it accounts for 700 million euros – and this is the case with a discharge package that totals 18 billion euros and benefits from the many small entrepreneurs. There are a total of 70 000 companies, of which 70 percent make less than 100 000 euros a year – not in the month but in the year. [[Abg. Houses: until 2025!]] [[Call the ÖVP: So it is!]] In other words, if you calculate it, the cost will be less than EUR 1 000 in 2024 and EUR 2 000 in 2025. The OMC can always be taken back, but if you believe that you no longer need large businesses in this country – yes, we know the SPÖ economic policy – this is simply not correct. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In addition, I would like to say that the SPÖ should be able to cope with the figures. The chairman said that Köst is EUR 1.5 billion, Mr Krainer says it is EUR 700 million. So, please, you can't really take this numbering play seriously anymore. To you, Mr Fuchs: I appreciate you as a senior specialist, as a real expert – hat! – but do you remember what your opinion was, your first reaction to it? – I say it in my words: I don't trust what I see there! – But there is in fact everything in the government program of the previous government of ÖVP and the liberals, except one: the CO2 tax. [[Abg. Hauser: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Deimek: That's the problem if you don't watch!]] - I'll get it together now. So it can't be that bad. Mr. Klubobmann Kickl, maybe you'll have an exchange of views. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] Now to the NEOS: Have Summa Sumarum She said: The cold progression should be abolished! – If this government had made it easy, it would have said: And now we're gonna get rid of the cold progression! [[Cheerfulness with the NEOS.]] Then we wouldn't have much more - - But maybe you listen and don't always laugh like that – it's not all that laughing! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Well, not anyway! Well, it's sad... To remove the cold progression!]] It's not all done to be cynical. Listen to me, Mrs. Colleague! Do you know what the cold progression is a year? – 500 million euros. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: That's what matters!]] Do you know how much these discharges represent for the Austrian citizen? Do you know how much that matters? In 2025, when all discharges take effect, EUR 7.8 billion. [[Abg. Hauser:... Öbag!]] Our then Federal Chancellor and current clubman Sebastian Kurz has explained this in the “ZIB 2”: If we had done so, we would only have relieved people a little; now they need the money. The arguments speak for this, and at the end of the period, we can all talk about whether we do it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] I'm asking you for one: Take a little something to know and do not just slander, otherwise you are really not credible! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] And to the Austrians I say only one thing: Look at the salary at the account when it's transferred next year! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] The same is true for the entrepreneur, because everyone really stays in the stock exchange. [[Abg. Loacker: I hope you have...!]] Mr Finanzminister, I said it yesterday: We can really carry this budget into the shop window. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4904	Mr Krainer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4933	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The government here puts a package on the table and labels it at the same time, writes advertising on it, and the first thing it writes about it is: I'm big. – I always think if you have to write on a package that it is big, probably something is wrong. And then she writes on it, it's social and it's ecological. – When you open this package, you see, it is really big for some, but for some small. For those who go to work – whether they are employees, small self-employed, or those who have gone to work and are now in retirement, that is, those who live by work and therefore pay income tax – this package is small. For them it is about half the size of the tax reform that was decided by SPÖ and ÖVP in 2015: for those who go to work, half the size of the tax reform in 2015. This is simply objective, because numbers do not lie, and you can look at it there. [[Call the ÖVP: Mr. Krainer - -!]] That is apparently not true for most Austrians, but of course it is true for corporations. I know there are 70 000 companies, but there are only a few hundred who get 80 percent of these billions when you lower the corporate tax. That's very, very few, that's great for them! For example, for the OMV – by the way the largest producer of CO2 in Austria – it is great: They get 10 million euros. They pay 10 million euros less taxes, for which the package is really big. For the employees of the OMV, for those who have worked there and are now in retirement, the package is small. You just see: Capital, wealth – big package; for those who go to work, for those who are in retirement – small package. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you write big on it, this is only true for donors and sponsors, but not for the broad mass of the Austrian population. They'll write on it, it's social. Social? – Also interesting! You can look at all of this, for example, this ecobonus. This is a question of how everyone should pay something, and when paying out it should be differentiated. That's what I'm saying. But you, it's not crucial if someone has a lot of money or if he has little money, it's not crucial whether someone lives environmentally friendly or does not live environmentally friendly, it's only crucial that if someone lives in Vienna, he should get as little as possible if he lives in another city in Austria – not in Vienna – then he should get something in between, and if he lives in the country, he should get as much as he can – no matter what people deserve. That means, a minimum pensioner in the city, in Vienna, gets 100 euros, but a super earner who lives somewhere else just gets the double – he gets the double! That's social? It should be social for the minimum pensioner to get 100 euros, but some millionaire 200 euros? Is that supposed to be social? - No! This package is neither big nor social. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you say the package is ecological, then I mean the dose is homeopathic, the effect it will have that less CO2 will be emitted is de facto hardly measurable. [[Abg. Jakob Schwarz: So what... yes, yes!]] [[Abg. Jakob Schwarz: What price would you have...?]] It's maybe 1 percent – maybe 1 percent! – maybe less, that's not clear. [[Abg. Jakob Schwarz: What price would you take?]] If we want to do something serious about the climate crisis – this package does not make a measurable contribution. [[Abg. Jakob Schwarz: What price does the crane take?]] It's not ecological, it's not social, so we can't agree to this package. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Maurer: But what price do you want then? Tell us a price!]] – You don’t need to be nervous and always scream! I have already told you x-fold that a CO2 tax can make a very small contribution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] What you have to do is order policy, and I do not know if the EIA is going along with it, but that is what has to be done to make an effective contribution. [[Abg. Jakob Schwarz: This is a tax reform! Tax reform means taxing!]] You need investment! Why do you reduce the taxes on the companies by up to 1 billion euros per year? [[Abg. Jakob Schwarz: This is a tax reform!]] I'm asking You really are: Why do you do this and do not invest the money in that Austria becomes more ecological by, for example, promoting heating exchange programmes? – That would be a measure! [[Abg. Jakob Schwarz: 20 billion...!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weratschig.]] Why give the money to any corporations instead of investing in the environment? Why are you doing this? – That would be at least ecological, but you do not, and therefore you will not receive any consent from us to this package. [[Abg. Wöger: Yes, exactly!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5135	Member of the Fuchs has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5156	Mr President. Estimated Minister of Finance! High house! Estimated taxpayers! Mr Obernosterer said: All the tax reliefs announced by the Federal Government are not new. The redundancies, from wage or income tax reduction to employee participation, correspond exactly to the measures I negotiated with Finance Minister Löger at the time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because you mean, Mr. Obernosterer, there are no differences: Watch out! I'll explain it to you: The First Klubobmann Deputy Wöginger has greatly praised the employee participation, and I find a small difference here: At that time, we would have exempted employee participation not only from income tax, but also from social security and additional labour costs, and neither in the Council of Ministers' speech nor in the budget speech. That means a good tip: ==References====External links== Read May 2019, then you know what's important! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Now again to colleagues Obernosterer: What distinguishes this tax reform from the tax reform at the time? Now we have a social tax reform. We have massive loads behind us, and there are now massive burdens on us: the NoVA increase from 1.7. This year with more than 500 million euros by 2025, the CO2 tax from next year, and by Mrs. Federal Minister Weessler, we know the following – she has made it sound at the time of the presentation of the tax reform –: the ecologicalisation of the pendulum fee, the abolition of the pendulum fee, the abolition of the service car privilege, the abolition of diesel privilege and measures against tank tourism. [[Abg. Wöginger: Don't do it!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: That's not all, my dear colleague!]] If the First Klubobmann deputy says “this isn’t all” then I am very pleased, and I hope the green side has heard that. [[Abg. Wöginger: Very good that you say that!]] All that is contained in this development and resilience plan will not come, and also what the Greens have agreed with the ÖVP in the government programme will not come. [[Abg. Kassinger: (in the direction of Green) Don't come, says August! He just said he didn't come all the way! That's what you can beg off!]] – So thank you so much. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What else is different from us, Mr. Obernosterer? – This eko a social tax reform does not include structural reform. There is no structural action in this Council of Ministers – with a single exception: increasing the amount of deposit for low-valued goods to EUR 1 000. This is the only structural measure. However, there is no administrative and structural relief at all for taxpayers or financial management. This is about red tape and digitization, but all of these are just lip confessions at the ÖVP. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I should like to mention briefly from our Council of Ministers' presentation of 1.5.2019 the structural redundancies we are planning 2021: ‘Debureaucratisation for workers by increasing the advertising fee’. In the future, 60 000 workers would have saved workers' income. That's the difference! It won't come. Or: ‘structural simplifications in tax law such as the ‘Recodification of the Income Tax Act’, ‘EStG 2020’ – will not come either. Neither will the “simplification of wage calculation” come, nor will the “extension of the research premium”: At present, this is only possible for capital companies; we would have enabled individual entrepreneurs and personal companies to benefit from the research premium. Further: Increase legal certainty, faster procedures both at the level of the financial office and at the level of the Federal Finance Court and, last but not least, in 2022 a uniform basis of assessment in respect of additional wage costs. – All these tax simplifications will not exist. I can also cite two examples – if it allows time, only one, okay –: the CO2 power tax. [[look at the already shining red lamb on the speaker’s coil]] In fact, we know it's just a mineral oil tax increase under the cover of climate protection, and I'm wondering: Why do you have to invent your own tax? You could also have increased the mineral oil tax – but that does not sound sexy, so you have to invent your own tax. [[Cheerfulness of Mr Belakovich and Mr Kickl]] Mr Finanzminister, why, as in the case of wage accounting, does a CO2 tax become complex in order to distribute it even more complicated to the population? [[Abg. Deimek: Where not even the Ministry of Finance knows!]] There will be four stages in the climate bonus, and in addition to the classification of municipalities in the city, country and surrounding areas, it is only possible to reach the public transport – heating costs, energy supply is completely disregarded. That is to say, the CO2 tax, of course, concerns not only mobility, but also heating – and now, Minister of Finance, explain to me how to conclude from the quality of the connection of public transport to the heating technology of individual households! [[Cheerfulness to representatives of the FPÖ as well as congratulations to the FPÖ.]] That is, one apparently assumes that one heats environmentally friendly if there is no subway at the doorstep, and vice versa. You can't really be serious. Another example: Those who live in Ketzergasse on the Vienna city border to Perchtoldsdorf and have a straight house number will receive 100 Euro Klimabonus because of the supposedly good public connection; but those who live on the other side of the street and have an odd house number will receive 133 Euro Klimabonus. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ]] [[Renewal hustle and bustle with the FPÖ.]] I could tell you such curiousities for a long time now, but the folder points to the end of my speaking time. [[Abg. Kassinger: Shame!]] –Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5332	Member of the European Parliament is entitled to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5354	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Dear spectators here and in front of the devices! I would like to add a few words to the budget: I think that's really a future budget. It has a large, strong climate focus, it is the largest climate budget of all time. [[Abg. Deimek: Yes, but only on one side of the street, right?]] We have put another EUR 700 million on top of the annual climate billion we have negotiated last year, regardless of the tax reform, which is another EUR 1 billion of the climate budget for itself, and regardless of the EAG, which also provides a financing of EUR 1 billion for renewable energy. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] However, the core of this budget is the eco-social tax reform with a total historical volume of 18.6 billion euros. This is the total volume after the CO2 price, which provides additional revenue, has almost been deducted; the discharge volume is even greater. I would just like to mention this on this occasion, in the direction of Kai Jan Krainer, because he always totally misrepresents the relations between companies and workers: 3 billion euros of relief for businesses and 20 billion euros for workers. That's extremely fair! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I can show you the lines in the budget report and also in the budget itself, in the proposal, it is black on white. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] There you can tell some stories around, but these are numbers that are black on white. [[Abg. Matznetter: Subtract the cold progression, then look different!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] That's right, then I'll get to the critical points. Let's start with the cold progression: The cold progression costs taxpayers at 1 percent inflation in about 300 million euros. We pay off in a scale above, we are talking about 3 billion euros in discharge. That means, that's a completely different order. I don't know how you come to believe that this could somehow bet. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lindner]] We're in a very different order. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In addition – and I find it exciting that the SPÖ also demands, so to speak, the automatic abolition of the cold progression, the NEOS and the FPÖ also –: As a government, you take every room for action. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Yes, but that's exactly why you want to have a policy of lords,...!]] We wanted to relieve small and medium-sized incomes. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger:... generous redistribution!]] It's not about goodies, no, it's about that we can relieve small and medium-sized incomes by reducing specific tariff rates. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger:... redistribut!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: No, redistribut!]] [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the ÖVP.]] What you want is an automation that always benefits the rich. It's like this: If you move the entire tax progression curve to the right all the time, of course the very top most of it will benefit. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: You think you have the wisdom that people need! Let her...!]] This is, of course, neoliberal policy of NEOS, but that the SPÖ is there too, I wonder. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: This is a classic redistribution!]] If we are already with the NEOS, then perhaps a short time on the criticism of the steering effect: They demand a CO2 price of 350 euros per tonne from NEOS. This also leads, in so far as people, especially low-income people, are no longer able to drive their car into work. [[Call the NEOS: That's a fool!]] I wonder if this is the steering effect we want. Steering works over investments! We make a CO2 price with an increasing path that signals When I buy a new car when I install a new heating, when I create a new system as a company, I know that in the future it will pay off if I take the more climate friendly variant. [[New call to the NEOS: That's a fool!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff]] – This is the steering effect that this CO2 price unfolds! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In this way, a tax reform will have a steering effect. Kai Jan Krain comments on a tax reform, but would have expected an ecological steering effect from anything else. But now we are talking about tax reform, and in the case of tax reform, we need to have a steering effect on taxes rather than on regulatory measures. That's obvious. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] More about the concept of tax reform: If you lower taxes, you clearly benefit from it – you can or can't do that, that's something we always look at a little different, whether you really have to reduce taxes or not – that taxes pay. No one should be surprised now. [[Cheerfulness and call of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] However, what we have done in this tax reform is that, in addition to all those who earn so little that they do not pay taxes, we have ensured that they too have more money in the stock exchange, through several measures: firstly, the climate bonus – 1 billion euros per year we are practically in this climate bonus, for all at least 100 euros per year –; secondly, the health insurance contributions are reduced; thirdly: [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: It's not on the stock exchange! You give it back again, best accompanied with ads!]] [[Abg. Kassinger: You're taking the money and sending it around the circle!]] Children's allowance. We have action after action, which applies precisely to these groups that deserve less than they need to earn in order to start paying taxes. [[Call to the FPÖ:This is also for small earners, the extra child?]] This is an extremely social variant of a tax reform. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Last point – that almost shocked me! –: I am not one of those who necessarily have to defend the OMV, but if you want to select a big, bad company that is now almost benefiting from this tax reform, please not the OMV. As far as CO2 pricing is concerned – Mr Krainer claimed that the OMC is excluded –: The OMC pays first for all major plants in the ETS, in the European Emissions Trading, a CO2 price, for all its own emissions now pays it by the CO2 price we introduce, a CO2 price, and in addition it pays the CO2 price for all Austrians. [[Abg. Lord:... certificates!]] This is a transporter's tax, that is, at the beginning, almost everything pays the OMV, and then you have to see if it can overwhelm consumers at all. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I think we should look at the documents and also the budget report more closely. I can also discuss this with you. I believe that this tax reform is actually forward-looking, relieves the climate, remains more money in the stock exchange, and so does the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5659	Mrs Doppelbauer has spoken. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5681	Mr President. High house! Mr. Finanzminister! Your budget speech yesterday was better than what we were then presented in the budget, I would like to say at the beginning. [[Abg. Ottenschlager: Even better!]] I think you know that, too, because you have written on that very big future, but the future is missing, it really is missing in this package. It's just not what's in it. It is a budget that will go again at the expense of subsequent generations. It is a debt backpack that you leave behind and that will grow over the next three years, and you do that, although we actually have a really good economic growth and although we are still in this very low interest rate environment. It should have been useful. That would have been a very, very important opportunity for a restart. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] We also know that Austria has come through the crisis because of the erratic crisis management – including your hand – than many other countries. Now will come back soon: That's all not right! – Then please read the international studies, the facts show you! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] A few key figures: The economic downturn in Sweden was 2.8 percent, in Switzerland it was 2.9%, in Austria 6.7%, although we spent much more on tax money than comparable other countries at EUR 56 billion in relation. That is how the crisis has been fought. Then you can also see: Switzerland is already planning a budget surplus for 2022. You, Minister of Finance, are planning deficits by 2025. Instead of a restart that we all expected here, we see the comeback of a usual uninspired budget. That's what we see. It's a reform store. It is a reform store which really takes the future generation from the budget to breathe, and I will also speak about this supposedly largest tax reform. However, I would like to start with the reform stand because it is really my heart. We have already proposed a lot of things here. What we would find particularly important to people in this country is, for example, a corresponding deal with federalism. We are really spending a lot of money on the wrong things, because you do not manage to bring together responsibility for tasks, revenue and expenditure at local, national and federal levels and to deflate the financial compensation accordingly. This has become particularly evident in the crisis. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] A picture that, as I believe, shows very well – remember! –: The Upper Austrian head of state Stelzer has let masks fly in with its own machine from China, combined with beautiful pictures, drawn at tax costs. Pensions keyword: We have a pension insurance system in this country in itself, but a third of the federal budget is now eligible for pensions. You finally have to pull your head out of the sand and make a pension reform. It is about adapting the actual retirement age to God thanks to increased life expectancy. I would just like to give you one example: In 2022 we pay more for civil servants' pensions than is spent in total on education. It just doesn't fit together anymore, ladies and gentlemen, you finally have to do something. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Let's stay a short while with education: Switzerland invests 16.5 percent of its state budget in the future of its children. In Austria there are 9.2 percent, and the plus in the 2022 budget for education is just one time covering the corona tests and the increase in the salary of teachers. Now I would like to come to the biggest tax reform of all time: That these superlatives are not appropriate, although You defend them so vehemently here, I think, yesterday a lot of economists said, and you could read it well in the newspapers. In the series of FPÖ one nods. Many criticisms that we made yesterday were also taken over. One point that is really important to me, to Mr Schwarz, who believes that the abolition of cold progression is not necessary, because then there is nothing to redistribute: I really find it absurd to say that! – Yes, then, reforms are needed so you can spend money again. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] That doesn't mean you pull people's money out of your pocket so you can re-distribut it. [[Abg. Jakob Schwarz: Who makes...?]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It's really unpackable! I would have trusted you with so much knowledge of economic relations. The figures are as follows: After the reform in our country, the working people remain the third of their hard-earned money in the EU comparison – the third most, after this reform! That's what comes out. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Perhaps even to the ÖVP, which apparently cannot correctly calculate the cold progression: Mr Obernosterer said that this is only 500 million euros. Yeah, in the first year, and then it's potential. By the year 2025, the EUR 4.5 to 5 billion will be discharged, ladies and gentlemen. It's really unpackable! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That's called an economic party. To this end, we could have relieved businessmen and women entrepreneurs. I'll tell you: We like the reduction of the koest, even there we are in the upper peak field, we find that all right. What is missing, however, is a painful lack of what entrepreneurs in this country really need, is a reduction in additional labour costs. Very short at the CO2 price: I understand that the Greens must bravely defend these 30 euros, which are really just a drop on the hot stone. Your reasoning before, Mr Schwarz, really hurts me. That's like, I don't know - - my colleague Matthias Strolz would have said: They're riding a dead horse. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] With 30 euros you'll never get anywhere. It doesn't control, and it won't do anything. Our model is the more ambitious. But I'm telling you: The voters will remember what you are doing. [[Call the Greens: You would have abolished all other environmental taxes, Karin! No nova! How ambitious is no noVA?]] They really give up on the green road. It's your decision. What really makes me angry, ladies and gentlemen – I tell you again –: After studying WKStA's files, we know that two very, very large chunks should have been abolished. The abolition of the cold progression would have really helped people – that was already in the 2017 programme, and it was negotiated – or also the free-child care in the afternoon, if at that time not this green Pratorian Guard – excuse, the turquoise, I must say, I was just with the Greens, but it was the Turquoises – this turquoise Pretorian Guard would have prevented that. [[Call to the NEOS: That would have been true!]] Why did they prevent it? – They have prevented it from taking over power, not to do anything good to people in this country. That was the only thing that was important: the taking over of power in this system. We would have given you the opportunity to improve this yesterday, Minister of Finance, I would like to address you personally. We would have given you a chance yesterday to rebuild at least a little confidence in people. Two requests for the abolition of cold progression and an application for free childcare have been removed from the table. Black/Türkis green has wiped all of this out of the table. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We have been talking a lot about trust in the last few days, ladies and gentlemen. I can only say: Mr Finanzminister, I am personally disappointed, I am really disappointed, and my confidence in you and your will to implement reforms for the people of this country is shaken.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5824	Mr Haubner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5845	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I just got a message: The budget must be very good. One regrets that it is too little, the other say that it is too much, because you must have met the middle perfectly! – Ladies and gentlemen, I believe we are right in this budget. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We want one with this budget: We want stability and growth in our country, and for this a thriving economy is something very important, budgetary security is a very important element and a prerequisite. A healthy business economy also creates jobs, ladies and gentlemen. I'm telling you, as an economic spokesperson of my party: We need this support, and we have proved in times of Corona that we also use this support well, secure jobs and keep our country and our economy on the right track. For this, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank the entrepreneurs very much for having taken this difficult path with us. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I also say quite clearly to you: This budget is a clear statement towards the future. I would like to say to the SPÖ: The economy is indivisible – entrepreneurs and employees together, because only together can we succeed, ladies and gentlemen. I do not think that we are always looking at entrepreneurs, just like you do, and that if we just make a contribution to that, you can secure the location and the entrepreneurs, that is then bad talk, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say a sentence on the cheese. 20 percent of Austrian entrepreneurs are subject to corporate tax and most are active in international competition. We already have to look for them to remain competitive and to stay in Austria in particular. Let us look at the other countries that are active in the area of Austria: Croatia has a Köst rate of 10 and 18 percent respectively, Slovakia one of 21 and 15 percent, Czech Republic 19 percent, Slovenia 19 percent. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we need to align our location and do something to ensure that entrepreneurs do not migrate to other countries. That is why we are doing this corporate tax reduction: to secure jobs in Austria – the jobs we all need. I am therefore in favour of implementing this measure accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is gratifying that 80 percent of entrepreneurs who are personal companies or individual entrepreneurs benefit from this tax reform. We lower the income level two from 35 to 30 percent, the income level three from 42 to 40 percent, we increase the profit-free amount from 13 to 15 percent, and we give investment incentives. This is very important, as we have now seen through this investment exemption: 7 billion euros of investment premium have triggered 80 billion euros of investment. This has also secured jobs, ladies and gentlemen. We think together for entrepreneurs and employees, and that is different from the SPÖ. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I gather: We will ensure recovery, stability and sustainability if we work together and not against each other. That's why: Let's see that we're successful together!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5921	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5942	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! Values Advisors! For us, one thing in this budget is quite clear: Women, children and young people have de facto not been taken into account. “The standard” writes very strikingly: not a miracle in a woman’s minister who does not “lobby” for women, but exclusively for “toxic masculinity”. – I think nothing else is better at this budget. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] What is clearly missing – even the Minister of Finance did not mention it yesterday in his speech – is the right to child care, to child rearing, the legal claim that Sebastian Kurz, then, 2017, stole the children. For us, one thing is quite clear: Every child is worth the same amount, and every child has a right to education. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS]] Thus, the legal claim should have been introduced in any case. At present, the Federal Government unfortunately does not make any institutions that this stolen legal claim is introduced. However, we also see huge construction sites in the area of violence protection. 21 Women's murder – that has already been mentioned – we have recorded this year. Already before the summer, a package of anti-violence measures amounting to around 20 million euros was announced. This doesn't sound like the first step ever bad, but not only that experts say it's far too little, it's the best: The money has not even arrived at the institutions. Announcing before the summer – and the money has still not arrived?- Oh, my God! You have to let that break on your tongue. Meanwhile, more women's murders have happened – before the summer it wasn't 21 – but the money hasn't yet arrived! This is not only Tarnen and Tueschen à la Federal Government, but it is also found in the budget speech of the Minister of Finance. Those who listened carefully could find out: 20 million euros there, 20 million euros there, internal, judicial, social, women, and that sounds almost as if there were these amounts for each budget chapter. – No, those who look closely see: It is 20 million euros in total, 20 million euros have not been calculated per area, not 20 million euros for real protection of violence, but in total – a superlative sum, finely numbered, then a bit divided somewhere, there a drop on the hot stone, because a drop on the hot stone, definitely but no real violence, which actually benefits women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One thing is also important to me at this point, because they have also been completely forgotten: the women's counsellors, the first contact point, if there are problems with women at home, in private life, in the profession et cetera, the women's advisory bodies as the first point of contact for problems of any kind. They really do essential work, are massively under-financed, behave from project funding to project funding to project financing, there are extremely precarious service conditions, and there is still no basic funding for these bodies – no basic funding that would actually safeguard employees on the one hand and on the other hand the guarantee that the money really comes to the affected women who are advised about the women's advisory services. [[Abg. Disoski: Why are they underfinanced? Because you didn't do anything!]] That is why this budget is not a milestone for us, but only a stumbling block for many women in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6065	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please. [[Ongoing calls and calls between the Deputies of Disoski and Holzleitner.]] - May I ask! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Hammer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6107	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! I have had a little feeling in some speeches of SPÖ and also of NEOS delegates that they were written before the budget documents were posted online. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I would really ask you or ask you to read the budget documents and not just what is in your briefing, because some of what has been said here is really counter-fact. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] In particular, the climate budget relating to: We have here – once again – the historically largest climate and environmental protection budget that this country has ever seen. We provide 1.2 billion euros for the environment, climate and energy alone – 1.2 billion euros! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Klubobfrau Rendi-Wagner, you mean maybe that's too little, that's why you remember: Compared to the figures during the last SPÖ government participation, we now have more than four times for this area – more than four times! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We also need this historic increase in the climate protection budget – and it is a historic increase – because we have to respond to a historic task, namely to the climate crisis. It is about transforming all systems in our society, in our economy towards CO2 neutrality, towards transition to renewable energies. Why? – Because this is the answer to the climate crisis, but also because – and I am speaking specifically to the colleagues from the FPÖ – because we finally have to free ourselves from the dependence on expensive oil and gas imports, which are responsible for increasing energy prices now. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Renewable energy is the answer to the long-term need for energy. That is why, from my point of view, it is totally incomprehensible that FPÖ wants to prevent the expansion of renewable energy wherever it governs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] What are we doing with this budget? – On the one hand, we create concrete alternatives to climate protection. We have one of the largest or the largest railway expansion programme that this country has ever seen. For the first time, we really have a promotion for the construction of bicycle roads, including for roads for foot traffic. As agreed at the EAG negotiations, we have a district heating package, which is now in the budget at EUR 30 million. The second thing we do is: We make climate-friendly alternatives more durable. I would like to highlight the climate ticket, which is fully illustrated in the budget, by which people who have to commute with the public will save up to and including more than EUR 1,000 a year. I'm asking: What tax reform in history has enabled people to save more than 1 000 euros a year? I think that's historical. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, we help people, i.e. private people, and businesses to change to climate-friendly alternatives. If private or even businesses want to buy a new heating to switch from oil or gas to climate-friendly alternatives, there is a huge budget that is really enough for the whole year. This means that all those who want to get a promotion will also receive a promotion. And not just that: The rate of private funding has also been increased from EUR 5 000 to EUR 7 500, which, as I think, is a very good sign, and it has also been introduced a new support for multi-storey housing to respond to the fact that tenants are also affected. Mr Schwarz mentioned it: We have not only strengthened all the climate protection levers that have existed so far, but we have also introduced a completely new lever in climate protection, with the CO2 price. Even if it is no secret that I personally and we Greens wanted a greater steering effect, we have created and launched a system change with the social-ecological tax reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] This is a system change that has been blocked and prevented, among other things, by social democracy over the last 30 years. We have, however, not achieved even two years of government! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[New call of the abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Yes, Mrs. Klubobfrau Meinl-Reisinger, many are talking about climate protection, we are acting! [[Abg. Miel-Risinger: Look at Europe!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6233	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6254	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Colleague Hammer has already made a great contribution to the coalitional marketing history: 1.2 billion euros for the environment, climate and energy! 1.2 billion – yes. Let's take a look at the budget: 23 billion euros for pensions, about twenty times, and you won't do anything! [[Calls to the Greens.]] You don't do anything, look away! In 2020, spending on pensions amounted to 20 billion euros, and at the end of the financial framework, there will be 27 billion euros – an increase of more than a third. If you were to lay your hands there, you could make climate policy as much as you want, then you could fulfill all the woman's political wishes of Mr Holzleitner that you would not know in the budget at all. You could organize childcare, you would only touch the largest chunks that devour one quarter of the budget. You do the opposite! They make out-of-tour pension increases and thus increase the problem even more. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Another generation problem, of which everyone knows, is the care, and for this you put 1.1 percent more – but with pensions you can put 3 percent on it. So where a real problem is, don't do anything! If young people now understand: Ah, we have a problem with old-age care, I have to take care of private and I'm starting to!, and these young people then save something in funds for old age, but then you haven't introduced a speculation period for that, and you're taxing the revenues of these long-term savers like that of a speculator who's suffocating around every day. You're not doing anything for old age care! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Let's go to the wonderful tax reform marketing! It's all so great: We lower the tax rates in wage and income tax underage. - I can't do that! The tax year is the calendar year. If you don't want to create a huge bureaucracy, you can't go to 1. In July the wage tax rates are reduced because the financial office does not know who in which calendar month has earned how much. It is also not possible to measure and reduce health insurance contributions within an insured group, for which there is jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. What you plan to do with health insurance contributions is unconstitutional! Then you want to pour out a climate bonus via the Ministry of Climate Change. Now I'm thinking: How then does the ministry of Mrs. Bessler know of the people's name, Address, account number and number of children? So how does the data get to the climate ministry? The Ministry of Finance is not going to send all the data to Mrs Geessler. The point is: You can be super populism, you can be super marketing, but you can't work!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6321	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6342	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! It is the usual game – we have just heard from colleagues Loacker – that the opposition is of course crushing the budget, but as always, it is a ritual and very manageable from the substance and from the truth content. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have – and many previous speakers of the coalition parties have already said that, and I believe that we cannot say and stress it often enough – already discussed many budgets here, and there have always been measures and approaches in it, but this budget already includes some very essential considerations and fundamental changes. It is the first and really consistent entry into the greening of our tax system. Eco-friendly action is rewarded accordingly. This is an essential step in environmental and climate protection. I think this confession will be made with this budget. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It brings – and even the ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ have already recognized this – a clear relief from workers. It will then remain in the Stock Exchange for Austrian employees every month and throughout the year, thus strengthening our purchasing power in Austria. We have clear priorities and investments in future areas. For example, I only call digitization, broadband expansion and – and this is particularly important to me – the field of internal security and defence. This budget also consistently strengthens Austria's location so that prosperity can also be secured in this country and people find work in our country. There are also clear approaches to this in this budget. I still have some highlights to highlight: the relief of workers – that has already been carried out. We have an annual discharge of up to 1,200 euros for every working person, and we also increase the family bonus by 500 euros per child. The Austrian families thus remain significantly more money at the end of the month and at the end of the year. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Because it is said again and again that maybe greater earners will benefit more: We lower the second and third income tax levels, and this benefits the vast majority of Austrian workers and thus the large majority. It's absolutely unreasonable always to talk about this class struggle here. All workers will be relieved! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also important to me, because in the discussion falsely different claims are made again and again: We also relieve the commuters, the people, the it is dependent on driving by car, by public transport, daily into work. Although we are entering the CO2 price on the one hand, we have a clear discharge with the regionality bonus on the other. What is very important to me – Mr Kickl has tried to doubt this –: The pendulum fee remains in the current form as well. We significantly expand public transport and use the air-conditioning ticket to make a clear, cost-effective alternative. We are taking measures in the field of the labour market. In my opinion, Mr Muchitsch will also speak and complain again that there is too little money for concrete labour market measures, but that is where we have very important priorities, and they are also successful. The Minister of Labour has published the labour market figures again this week, and we are very well on the road and we are taking very effective and important measures with the Coronajobsive and Action Springboard, which are also clearly illustrated in the budget. Fourth point: We also invest a lot of money in the German army. There is a significant increase in the budget for the area of national defence. We have seen that there are various threats, such as natural events and storm events. In addition, the German army has also shown how good and important its actions are. I therefore believe that it is consistent and necessary to invest in this area, and we do. This budget takes into account the fact that there is a strong federal army and strong national defence. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This budget is a clear statement for the future of our country, and we will be very happy and agreeable. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6433	Next speaker: Mr Rainer Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6458	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister yesterday, you discussed the economic situation of Austria. The industry in particular is very successful on the road. However, I also say quite clearly from this point of view: This is not Their merit, but it is due to the many colleagues who have worked day and night and have kept this country high. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It must not be believed that these people were not afraid, because they risked their health in their efforts. We have heard this, ladies and gentlemen, and of course the people have complained, because they have not been easy, but they have managed to hold this country up. Mr. Blümel! They thanked the employees. – I also say from this point of view: A word of thanks won't be enough. Because of thanks, people can't bite themselves. The workers need proper wage and salary increases. You must be able to participate in this success, and as a trade union we will take care of it in the next few weeks, and you will be able to rely on it. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The government has promised corona premiums. I now ask from this point of view: What happened to these corona premiums? To this day, not a cent – not a cent! – paid, ladies and gentlemen! That's really classic show policy you're doing here. Make sure that these corona premiums now reach the people, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With regard to tax reform, a lot has already been spoken and criticised. I'm just saying, This is classic client policy. Once again, they abandon the workers. Not even the cold progression is paid off here. In reality, the workers paid for everything themselves. Really, you make a difference only with the big corporations with the corporate tax: 1 billion fresh money! This is really taken from the budget, and this is a kneefall in front of the big corporations. SMEs have nothing at all. This is really about the very large companies, and this will help the companies to improve their results. It has also been said that this will ensure jobs. That's what I'm looking at! It is true that many corporations have collected state aid, but at the same time they are already disbursing dividends. – I say to you: This is absolutely immoral, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. No one understands. I can only give an example because he was the big and big donor of the ÖVP at the last National Council election, Mr Pierer. Short work: EUR 11 million, grants: 14 million euros, dividends paid: 11 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It's immoral! It just doesn't belong! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One sentence on the labour market – which will be followed by a comprehensive approach by Mr Muchitsch – will be: We now have 335,000 people without work, and 160 000 people are long-term unemployed. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! When the 20 000 action was carried by you to the grave, we had 100,000 people in long-term unemployment. With this in mind, I ask myself: What about the action springboard? – This one has no effect at all! What about the Corona job and training offensive? What does that mean? Where's that? The figures reflect something quite different. The environmental foundation is a little budgeted for next year. – I say to you: You're very good at marketing. But in your policy everything is sound and smoke, and therefore we will not vote in favour of the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6533	Next speaker: Mrs Meri Disoski. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6554	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! It's a shame that clubwoman Meinl-Risinger is not in the hall anymore. I would like to ask her what she understands as a future-oriented and single-fit policy which she has called for here. How does the red-pink government, or the red-pink government, not exactly know, because we hardly get anything from NEOS in Vienna – a future-fitted and single-fit policy? – You can get yourself that is currently in the north-east of Vienna. It is planned to build a city highway there. You want to demonstrate an area of 85 football fields against any scientific evidence. Everyone says to you: Don't do that! - But you do. That's a lone-fit policy? This is future-oriented policy? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] – Mr Nurten Yılmaz, you will not tell me what I am allowed to talk about! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] How does future-fit and single-fit policy look like à la NEOS? – This can be viewed as an example of the education policy of the city government in Vienna. NEOS City Council Return has presented its educational reform in June and I quote it that there will be “as many winners as losers”. – What is this, then, for a declaration of bankruptcy for the former educational party? Is this one-fit and future-fit policy? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] Yes, I'm a woman's spokesman, colleague Yılmaz. Mr Holzleitner, you said that women are not taken into account in this budget. I brought you the budgets of the past 15 years. I think you've been wrong. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holzleitner.]] SPÖ Women's Minister, SPÖ Government, SPÖ Women's Minister, SPÖ Government, that's what's going on all the time. Since 2007, for ten years, however, there has been no increase in SPÖ-led governments, no increase among SPÖ women ministers, nothing! [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Now we have managed to increase by 81 percent within two years! 81 percent! You didn't do this! I say: Not only demand, but do! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Childcare efforts: How long have you been in government responsibility? What could you have done? What did you do? - Nothing! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But we'll do it. We started a large training offensive for elementary pedagogicals together with the coalition partner last year. Only last week there was a Council of Ministers lecture, the extension of childcare was decided, and that is coming! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Violence protection is a major issue. What did we do in the fight against violence? – We almost doubled the women's budget. We have set accents in the judicial system, the law package against hatred has been implemented on the net. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] There is what has been called for for a long time by victimists, a focus already in the training of prosecutors and judges to violence against women and domestic violence. It's been called for a long time. We're gonna do it now! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Health and Social Minister Mückstein launched a campaign for male violence and toxic masculinity. This too has been demanded by violent defenders for years. We are now implementing it together with the coalition partner. What are we gonna do? – There is a project that actually started in Vienna. This is a very dedicated project to encourage neighbors to engage in violence prevention. This wonderful project has the title: StoP – districts with no partner force. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== At EUR 700 000, Federal Minister Mückstein now ensures that we can roll it out in Austria. There is now a request in almost every district in Vienna that this project should also: It is supported by the city of Vienna. But what does the city of Vienna do? What's the SPÖ lady city councillor doing? – protection against violence: That's what the covenant's supposed to pay! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] No, violence is not just a federal issue, we all have to do with the protection of violence. To do this, all need one another, the country, the federal government, the cities and the municipalities. This is not a gratifying task of the covenant, you can't get out of the responsibility. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] Something that's important to me. There has also been a great deal of discussion today about the eco-social tax reform and about it, which is why this fact occurs that men benefit in percentage from this tax reform more than women. – The answer to this is simple: As long as we are in the situation that women do two-thirds of unpaid care and men two-thirds of paid work, that will not change for so long. That is why in the future, our focus must be on changing this uneven distribution of paid and unpaid work. That's what we're really going to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6720	Next speaker: Mr Michael Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6744	Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated Minister of State! I believed I could not trust my ears when I listened to the green speakers about how they wanted to sell us an eco-social tax reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disoski.]] The only thing you can really say is that the greens have entered the negotiations as a roaring lion and emigrated out as a bedhead. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is in no way ecological what is being presented to us. In the case of the ÖVP you can only congratulate – and you have to wonder what the Greens have got for it – because what is now being presented to us in the environmental field is 100% the content position of the ÖVP. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] Mr Schwarz, I listened very carefully to your remarks earlier. I will focus very briefly on the topics: The CO2 price is actually recognised internationally as a valuable and important tool to significantly reduce emissions in the country. It is now not only important as an instrument, but also the price is very important because it is a signal to the market: How am I supposed to act? The experts from climate research have looked very closely at what your CO2 award brings. Do you know what the effect is? – 1 percent reduction in CO2 emissions. [[Abg. Jakob Schwarz:... 4 percent!]] – 1 percent reduction! The second point, which is very important: The additional certificates we need to buy in 2030, because your climate policy and your own goals, which you have set yourself as a federal government, will cost 5 to 9 billion euros. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] – As an economist who you are, you know that if you have to expect costs, you must make a deposit. The costs are under attack in 2030, but they are nowhere in the budget; they are nowhere else hidden in the federal budget. What you are doing is introducing a CO2 price, which actually does not reduce emissions, will cost extra costs in the government budget, and will give people sand to the eyes. That's really the only thing you're doing. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You said we want NEOS a CO2 price of 350 euros per tonne of CO2. I would now like to focus on what we really want: We want to revolutionize the entire tax system. We want to get away from work as massively taxed as today – you have forgotten to say that. It's right that we didn't give a bonus, for a simple reason: We have another human image; our idea is not that we first clear the taxpayers, take everything away from them until they have almost nothing left, write the bonus on it and give them a little bit back. This is not our understanding of tax policy. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Lukas Hammer and Jakob Schwarz.]] Our tax policy builds on the fact that we first massively reduce taxes and then raise the price so that everyone and everyone can actually decide how to invest this money in the future. We would, of course, be socially dispersing from people who cannot buy new oil heating, or from those who do not have access to public transport. But we would not have to spend billions on this. I would like to address another point: They have not only fallen by the price of CO2, they have also fallen in favour of climate and environmental subsidies. You are now celebrating here with an 18-billion euro tax reform. All economic research institutes say to the same extent that every year between 3.3 and 5 billion euros are spent on climate and environmental subsidies by the state budget, the federal government and countries. So, if I make your maximum sum, we're talking about 25 billion euros – to the same extent. We as the National Council have decided that Minister Geessler, together with Minister Blümel, will have to present a study by July to show exactly where these subsidies are going so that we can deal with them. I know that the Ministry of Climate Change has made its contribution, but the Minister of Finance has not. But he's sitting here. You should have insisted in the negotiations, of course, that Mr Blümel does not once send a walk to the laptop, but that he comes out with a proper study. That's where you failed. They have not only presented a CO2 price that does not work, they also support the ÖVP in paying out climate and environmental subsidies. This is not our understanding of climate and environmental policy. We NEOS want a real discharge for the middle of society and an end to emissions. This is all that the Greens and the EIA do not stand for.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6824	Next speaker: Mr Georg Strasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6845	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! It is a good day and I am really grateful, Minister, that we can discuss this budget today. But before I get to the point in my remarks, I would like to comment a little on the subject of childcare, which is currently being discussed very intensively outside and also in this House. Please take this as a sign that, contrary to the principle that you check a fact and then make a countercheck, currently, in these days, a lot is being constructed and scandalized. I have some clues on the subject of child care, that something is being discussed about it, so to speak. We should be a little moderate. There is the accusation that Sebastian Kurz had sabotaged child care. [[Call the SPÖ: Got it!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross.]] The “Salzburger Nachrichten” of the 13th century. October 2021 – Mrs. Ecker, from your federal state – write: ‘By facts, that is not to be demonstrated.’ A second medium that made a fact-finding check says: “Unlike the Schmid chats, there was money.” I conclude with a quote from our Minister Susanne Raab: “Overall, 1.6 billion have been committed since 2017. Euro provided for day care”. [[Abg. Cornelia Ecker:... Right to claim!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kollross and Mr Lercher.]] This is the fact that counts for us as a family party. I'm just looking for more materiality, I'm looking for facts to check. The facts go in a completely different direction than the public debate, and that cannot be it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: Where is the legal claim? Where is he?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: Factcheck!]] Estimated Minister of State! (New calls from Members Cornelia Ecker, Leichtfried and Matznetter. ) – Ladies and gentlemen from Social Democracy, I have already felt it quite strange that you have disturbed the speech of Mr Disoski. You can tell your opinions here from the speaker's desk, but I'll ask you to just let me talk. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Estimated Minister of Finance! Yeah, it's a good day. I can thank you and all your employees. This budget is proof that we have mastered the pandemic well. This budget is proof of the long-term savings of a budget policy, and this budget is proof that the Austrian systems are resiliient and that the efforts of the people in Austria are aimed at. Thank you for this announcement, it's a good plan for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Agriculture and forestry: In this area, every euro is necessary when looking at agricultural incomes, and every euro is well invested money so that food and raw materials of the highest quality can also be produced in Austria in the future. The farmers will, with this budget, be able to do a lot for climate protection in the future. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] To the project energy-autarchical farms – thank you very much –: We want to change 1 000 farms per year. This is an economic factor, but it is also a factor within the meaning of the climate balance. Thanks also for the CO2 compensation in connection with the fuels, also this is a necessity which plays a major role in the sense of competitiveness and in the sense of our climate performance balance in Austria. Austrian food not only tastes good, wood not only feels good, but also the consumption of Austrian products is a contribution to climate protection, and that is why I am looking for you: Keep us faithful! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kollross and Mr Matznetter.]] Now again on social democracy, on Mrs Ecker, on Mrs Herr and also on the other Members. In committees, in other debates, one often has the impression that you are really serious about agriculture – the saviors of Austrian agriculture. Mrs Ecker, as I explained. So you're looking at this picture of the socialist union? [[The speaker holds a panel on which a poster with a man’s photo and the text “Farming after the tax reform: What does the world cost?” can be seen.]] [[Interlocutors Cornelia Ecker and Matznetter.]] How do you explain this picture to us? We do not need any envy debate, ladies and gentlemen. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] In fact, this sharepic and its posting are a revelation that your statements are simply lip confessions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross.]] What we need is real support. I take this picture as a compliment: It seems that the tax reform and the budget for the Austrian farmers really did something. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, the Austrian People's Party is not only the Party of Farmers. We are the party of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] We are the party of small and medium-sized earners, pensioners, officials, teachers, families, generations, men and women. We are making policies for all levels of population, and we will do so in the future. We are a People's Party, and we will continue this path consistently in the next few years, together with our party chairman Sebastian Kurz. Thank you, all right!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7044	Mrs Nurten Yılmaz spoke on an actual amendment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7071	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In her speech, Mrs Disoski said that the Vienna Women's City Councillor did not raise the budget for violence in Vienna. [[Abg. Lukas Hammer: She didn't say that!]] [[Abg. Disoski: I didn't say that!]] - That's wrong. [[Call the Greens: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] The right thing is: The budget has been doubled from EUR 3 million to EUR 6 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7135	Mr Josef Muchitsch came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7159	Madam President. The Minister of Finance is not in the hall. The fact is – and you all know that in this room –: The tax reductions are paid by the working people due to the lack of compensation for cold progression itself. That's what you know. The fact is that the working people in the crisis have been keeping the country running and providing tax revenue. This is precisely the work of the working people, but also the employer in this crisis is the basis for the 2022 budget. In the 2022 budget, however, it is already clear where the EIA and the Greens are setting their political priorities: no means of enhancing childcare, no means of remedying the need for care and no means of combating poverty and poverty as a whole. [[Abg. Jewellery beater: That's not true!]] When you consider that 2016 Mr. Klubobmann Kurz and his pretorianers, as they call themselves, have prevented a comprehensive childcare because they were more powerful, and that not even now, as everything comes up in corruption, bribery and bribery, this is really bad. [[Call the ÖVP: Don't vote!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Baumgartner]] That's unsocial and that's not fair. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Scherak.]] Mr President, perhaps you should really read these 104 pages – Mr. Bundeskanzler, too, instead of simply saying in an interview: I just missed it, it's all wrong, and the justice, that's not all right, that's what they're doing! – Read the 104 pages! You will read that Thomas Schmid writes in June 2016: “We need to look after banks.” Core and Middle-Leaners want ‘EUR 1.2 billion for afternoon service with legal claims’. – Answer Klubobmann Sebastian Kurz “Gar not good!!- Oh, my God! How can you stop that?” – And continue: “Can I stir up a federal country? “ [[Abg. Strasser:... 1.6 billion euros! 1.6 billion euros!]] [[Further calls from Mr Hanger and Mr Sieber.]] This is the truth, and you can't argue it away! [[Call the ÖVP: That's not true!]] You can go out a hundred more times and claim something else. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Call the ÖVP:College Muchitsch, you were once more a serious one!]] Because you have no interest in care, there is no means available in your budget: no means for the development of care, no means for measures against the escape from the care professions, no means for the regular financing of hospice and palliative workers. A total of EUR 1.7 billion would be needed if we really wanted to deal with this issue together if we wanted to do it – but not give hundreds of millions up to EUR 1 billion to those who do not need it at all, namely the large corporations and the large companies! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we want to solve the problems of care, we need this 1.7 billion euros in final development: 20 percent more staff, for the expansion of care at home, for improving the quality of mobile services, for social improvements in care staff. [[Abg. Hörl: For what?- Oh, my God!]] The SPÖ's requests for better regulation of night work and recognition of heavy work are on the table. You just need to agree with her, and we would have taken a first step in the field of care. On the Springboard action – because Mr Hammer spoke about it –: With your jumping board, you stand up completely. [[The speaker put a table entitled “Development of the long-term unemployed” and a bar chart on the speaker’s desk.]] Without your action, the AMS provides 50,000 long-term unemployed every year. You said that with the Springboard action, we are able to bring 50 000 long-term unemployed into jobs once again. – Look at it It's getting more and more! [[pointing to the table]] The action is a jump on the stand. You don't get people into employment, that's the problem of your action springboard. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A point on reducing health insurance contributions: This reduction means 1 billion euros less money in health insurance funds across all institutions – workers, employees, farmers, self-employed. Mr. Finanzminister, you have promised that you will compensate for this with a federal grant. But you don't do that, it's not included in the budget, these are empty promises. Our proposal: Make a SV bonus for low-income people through the Ministry of Finance, that is fair, and leave the cash registers in their self-management, in their responsibilities! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Last sentence: Mr Klubobmann Kurz, I have seen you speak today on the budget. You know what happened? – If you would repay the 2 million euros you stole from taxpayers and then report to the 2022 budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7324	Mr Muchitsch, you know that the term “stolen” is a criminally relevant accusation. That is why I give you a call for order. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Abg. Steinacker: I want him to take him back! Take it back! It's a joke!]] The next item is Mrs Agnes Sirkka Prammer's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7369	Madam President. Estimated Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I would like to dedicate myself to an area that is very important and which is also particularly important, and that is the judicial budget. We stress again and again – and rightly so – that we are abandoning justice, but, of course, this requires the appropriate resources, and they are again available in this budget. After the judicial system has been seriously broken for a long time, Minister of Justice Alma Zadić has achieved more budget and more staff for the justice year after year. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In 2020, the justice budget was increased by 131 million euros, 2021 added 65 million euros, and in 2022 there will be an additional 76.4 million euros for justice. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is money that is urgently needed to improve the structures and new impulses. There is more than EUR 5.6 million in the field of justice alone for the Action Plan on Violence. This will strengthen anti-violence training, male guidance and family and youth justice. Process support is forced and hourly rates for psychosocial process support are increased. But it's not done with money alone. There is also a staff offensive. Further expansion will take place at the judicial planning offices, in particular to ensure effective anti-terrorism, and additional training plans will be created for law enforcement officers, district lawyers and district lawyers. There is also an increase in the area of the Bundeskartellanwaltsanwalt, the supervisory authority for collecting companies and the patient attorney's office. Therefore, once again: We let justice work and also ensure that it gets the necessary resources for it with the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7422	Next speaker: Mr Johannes Margreiter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7448	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Estimated audiences in front of the screens! You will not be surprised that as a judge, but also as one who works in the judicial system, as a system partner, I am very pleased that, as my colleague Prammer has already done, the judicial budget will be increased for another year in order to compensate for past shortcomings. It is, of course, in the nature of the matter that, as an opposition politician, I have to put my finger on where there are still massive deficits. First of all, there would be the planning positions of the Federal Administrative Courts. We know that there are still massive residues of asylum procedures that need to be processed. There is a need for human resources, including with regard to any further need for asylum procedures. Secondly, The reform in the implementation of measures. In the 2022 judicial budget, it is explicitly defined as an effective objective to further reform the implementation of the measures. A response from the Minister of Justice shows that reform will require EUR 25 million. These funds are still missing. There is a need to increase more generously, because this is a very important issue in the sense of the rule of law. Then, ladies and gentlemen, there is a third issue, and I note a certain discrepancy. Mr. Federal Minister, you made your budget speech on the judicial chapter yesterday: “We will increase resources in the field of justice to implement the terrorist package. With a budget increase of a total of EUR 172.1 million in the next federal financial framework, the [...] section will provide additional funding for the fight against terrorism by 2025.” – Well, that’s certainly a very important issue, only I doubt that the fight against terrorism really belongs to the justice budget. I think there is another element of show policy to be tied up, because, with this whole terrorist campaign package, so important is the issue, it is supposed to be deceiving that – and this is coming soon now – after the terrorist attack of Vienna simply went about distracting from what gross failure has been done in the Ministry of the Interior. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I think the Ministry of the Interior is the first address when it comes to effective counter-terrorism. What would belong to the Ministry of Justice – and that is the fourth – is resources and resources to fight corruption, and there is also the need for money. The fight against corruption – and we know this more precisely in these days than usual – requires even more, in particular, human resources, especially in order to be able to act preventively, but also – these are very complex procedures – to be able to work out the procedures that are now pending, so that the people who are affected are not in the status of accused for so long, whether they will be condemned at some point in time, or whether the proceedings are terminated. These anti-corruption funds would be urgently, urgently necessary in the judicial budget, so that we, as the Republic of Austria, can come further forward in the international index of Transparency International. It is not a reputation for our Republic that we are not very far ahead, nor with all the accompanying music that we have experienced in the last few days. In this sense, I call on you to release budget resources to ensure effective anti-corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7494	Next speaker: Mr Kurt Egger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7521	Madam President. Estimated Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors on the gallery and via live stream! Before addressing the issues of the budget, allow me a few personal comments! At the beginning, I would like to thank the head of state Hermann Schützenhofer and the Styrian People's Party for the trust they have placed in me and for allowing me to take over this honorable task. The second comment on entrance deals with the style that has occurred to me in the last days since I was there since Tuesday. I got a lot of feedback, congratulations, positive things that were written to me, but many were there: Are you always that way? Very touched me at the end of the day of my niece's call. She's ten years old and she said: After school, I listened to the Angelobung and then I followed the debate a little bit. [[Abg. Matznetter: Yes, but it's not youth-free!]] [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz:... Posts!]] She said: That is a terrible way of dealing with each other! I would really like us to contribute a little more to the style. When I think about Mr Muchich's speech earlier, I have to say that this is not what I am imagining. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are debating today a budget that is balanced from my point of view, on the one hand with a stronger purchasing power, on the other hand with a support for the domestic businesses that are urgently needed. After the difficult corona situation, it is necessary that they have air for breathing. As the SPÖ always cites only examples such as the OMV, I brought with me three examples from my Styrian homeland. I speak of so-called large corporations operating internationally. The AVL list with more than 11,000 employees, including 4,000 in Graz, is likely to continue to invest in apprenticeship training. Every year it is between 30 and 40 apprentices who start working there. That's how the money is invested. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The second company is the company Anton Paar: 3 500 employees, 33 representations around the world, a company that is known for being family friendly to invest a lot in the training of employees, but certainly none of the big corporations that move the money. The third company is the company Payer from my former home town of Sankt Bartholomä, a company that is internationally established, has 1 100 employees, many of them at the headquarters in Sankt Bartholomä. This is a profit for the community, local tax is delivered. You may also be able to use these examples in the future. The budget is great, the budget is balanced. Peter Haubner said: “The economy is indivisible” between employees and companies. The economy is also indivisible between the big and the little. We need the big steamers, but we also need the small speedboats. – In this sense: Please agree to the budget!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7591	The next speaker is Mrs Andrea Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7612	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Egger! I can only understand what you have learned about your own party in the last few days and what we would rather never have experienced, because it would not have happened better. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ]] In the last few days, it has indeed made us inconceivable, but what many people – you don't even get past the conversations, you have to know about the ÖVP – have really upset and made careless, is how someone has prevented something that is so extremely important for children and young people in this country, simply because he's overcoming his personal advancement. All of us here, of course, is not a foreign political strategy, but it is really new that someone does not want to enforce something that is important and successful, but wants to prevent it. And this is not something, but something that would have been so important for the children, for the families in this country. We could have a really big boost in childcare since 2017, for some years. Again yesterday, the coalition parties rejected the right to childcare, which we so urgently needed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] On the other hand, I don't see you making a cut where you spend a lot of money on your big propaganda machine. We have also learned in the last few days how much you take in your hands and what you are supposed to have taken it into your hands. To this end, I can only quote Kurt Fischer, a mayor of the ÖVP, who has weathered today: “We don’t need #MessageControl now and no #RemoteControl at all... we need a democracy policy #Reset – also a media policy... Those who continue to inserate as before have not recognized the signs of the time.” Mr Finanzminister, on the advertisements you have now posted – you have not recognized the time and perhaps not the legal framework, because that will still be clarified. What is now urgently needed is a reparation for the children and families in that country. Take proper budgetary resources into your hands, introduce a right to childcare, for kindergartens, for afternoon care, for all day school! We need that, the families deserved it as a reparation for what happened.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7664	Next speaker: Mrs Sibylle Hamann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7686	Madam President! Mr. Federal Minister! A few words on the educational budget, not on things from the past, but on the future: The educational budget is always huge, this time over 10 billion euros, of which, of course, there is always much to be done by staff costs. This time some large chunks are included, which is especially the large digitalization offensive, including distribution of end-of-end equipment to all students and also to teachers, including IT support. We also have a large chunks with school renovation and new construction, with a special focus on environmental standards. However, I would now like to use my speaking time to point out a few smaller things that are really imaginable accents and are particularly important to me, especially with regard to education justice. For example, the additional funding hours to Corona: For this, 250 million euros have already been spent and 65 million more have been estimated for next year. It is extremely important that this is not distributed with the casting can, but flows to where it is most needed, namely to the children and the schools that it was particularly difficult during Corona, who worked and had little support under difficult conditions. We do not want to see, as Mr Meinl-Reisinger said, that private assistance is necessary, but we want support to be given to schools. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: I have criticized this, Mrs Colleague!]] New budgeting and implementation is a project that is especially dear to my heart: German funding. We know that there is mandatory German support for children in extraordinary status; as soon as they change in proper status, there is no longer this claim. This is a mistake, because, as we know, language promotion is not completed after a few years, but continues. For these children there will be an additional pot for German lessons, which is budgeted at EUR 5 million annually, because we want all children in this country to be able to tap their full potential. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Künsberg Sarre: Then you have to invest in kindergartens!]] Another success story is the summer school, which will be fixed with this budget for the first time, as a new additional offer for all children in the last two weeks. For smaller children this is to be a kind of soft opening for the new school year, a return to school rhythm with playful learning. For older people, for example, this can be a targeted preparation if they change school type, prepare for a follow-up examination, re-learning in certain subjects. For students, this is a great opportunity to acquire practice and experience yourself as a self-responsible person. This is budgeted at 7 million euros, i.e. the summer school has come to stay. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Another beautiful success project is the project 100 schools, which is already in implementation. I looked at this at some of the locations, it's a pleasure: This is self-reflection, ideas develop, a vision develop, which can be made specifically at the respective location. There, targeted school development is now taking place with customized resource packages. This is also budgeted at EUR 15 million, and I am very excited about what comes out of this experiment. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: An experiment!]] Another important topic is psychosocial support staff. We all know that teachers cannot do everything and that in many areas they need professionals with other expertise, such as psychologists, psychologists or social workers. This whole area we have now put on the feet organisationally and permanently secured. To this end, funds from the Federal Republic of Germany, countries and the European Social Fund will be brought together. The number of current planning sites is doubled, with 21 million euros being invested per year. It's a huge project that finally succeeded. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A few more words on elementary pedagogy, because it is really a big topic these days: The 15a agreement with the countries will be renegotiated with the following clear objectives: Quality improvements, uniform higher standards, more intensive promotion and substantial expansion of supply, and of course there will also be a substantial increase in the target grant from the Federal Government as soon as these negotiations are completed and are clear for what. That's where we're going to push on and not let go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7787	Next speaker: Mr Yannick Shetty. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7808	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen, This budget is a blow to the face of all young people in Austria. Turkey's Green is presenting a budget that sounds as if there were no people under 30 in that country. If you look at this budget very carefully, you get the feeling of living in a kind of gerontocracy, in other words, in a system of rule in which old party officials decide on the future of the boys, but ignore them. In the three key issues of the future – these are those that go beyond the duration of a legislative period – this budget is a blow to the face of all young people: Climate protection, education policy and pension system. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I would first like to talk about climate. We know – I think at least that many here know – that it will end disastrously, especially for younger people in Austria, if we do not counter it now. Our beautiful Austria will no longer be recognized in a few years, already with a 1.5 degree warming. So we have to change everything if we don't want the climate to change everything. If you look into the budget after this finding, the spit will stay away from you, because you would expect something. “WHOLD THE CLIMA WHET?” the Greens put on, and if you look at the social media channels of the Greens, you have the feeling that this budget alone will save the world climate. Stunned by the green PR show – you have already learned very well from the Turks – the view of these numbers is shocking. First: The CO2 price does not even deserve its name – zero steering effect, much too ambitious, much too weak. Secondly, Environmentally harmful subsidies that need to be dealt with urgently – this is a disaster! – not affected, and contrary to your promises, more than €4 billion a year will be spent on state support for environmental destruction. That's crazy! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I read something to you now and would like to ask the green club woman who spoke about it – otherwise the other green colleagues – if she can tell me who this quote is about. ‘Co2 dumping price: Government fails in the case of tax reform as a whole’. “The turquoise-green government has delivered a Greenwashing master’s achievement with its much-quoted prestige project. A dumping price for nature is sold by the head of government today as a forward-looking major measure – that is a real disappointment.” Do you know who that is? – That’s from the climate people’s desire – right! – by the party-independent initiators, initiators of the climate people’s desire. I think that's self-evident. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Education policy: I don't know if we live in parallel worlds, Mrs. Hamann. If you listen to what you're talking about, and then you look into the budget, you have the feeling that these are parallel universes, parallel societies maybe where we live. The budget for education is expected to rise from currently EUR 9.9 billion to EUR 10.1 billion. However, if you look at how this budget increase is combined, you have to be surprised to see that this 310 million euros plus 238 million euros for PCR and antigen tests. If this is your educational vision, if your vision consists of testing the students, then good night! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] In the case of pensions, too, it quickly becomes clear that the budget is a declaration of bankruptcy before the youth. With 23 billion euros, this is by far the largest item in the budget. That's what I'm asking myself: How can there be a lack of any future strategies? In order to put this into relation, we are spending more money on civil servants' pensions than on education policy. Turquoise green pretends that there is no structural problem with our pension system at all. As a heading in the budget you could have chosen: There's nothing to see here, go on! This budget is an enemy act against us young people, and these young people know it and will express it in the next elections.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7893	Next speaker: Mr Christoph Stark. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7918	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies, ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors of this plenary debate! We are at first reading on the budget. This is the start of a long decision-making process on an important point, on the budget for our country. Some terms have fallen – we live in a very excited time. One of them was whether we had a party for it. – No, we do not, because this budget, this draft budget, is a result of two things: On the one hand, he is a result of solid work by all those involved, on the other hand, he is a result of taxpayers, the economy, a functioning economy, which makes the budget possible at all. To claim that taxpayers would pay themselves certain things: Well, of course! Who's to set up the budget, please? Do you think we're inventing money somewhere that rains? No, the funds in the budget come from all taxpayers, whether from individuals or from the economy. But it is real money that is generated in Austria. [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and to Mr Prammer and Mr Jakob Schwarz.]] The fact is, we are talking about enormous discharges and the removal of burdens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] All that is going on there are nuances, political nuances, which, of course, lie in the nature of the matter. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let me turn to a few other things that are swinging here. On the one hand, it is about creating a budget that provides a good basis for our society, for a social peace, whose basis is also a piece of morality. [[Abg. Bösch: Ui! Tell the ÖVPler!]] Some in this house act as if they were moral about others and were rubbing on public news, texting anything that might suggest. Ladies and gentlemen! All here who think that they are morally higher – Mr Muchich, Mr Kickl, who is not here right now, Mrs Rendi-Wagner – I ask: Please put your mobile phone with a proxy for evaluation here on this table! Then let's see who's morally higher! [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] The same applies to the advertising debate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Abg. Lausch: This is the justification of the ÖVP?]] Ladies and gentlemen, the city of Vienna invests more budget resources in ads than all other federal states. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] You have to be aware of that! Vienna is governed by SPÖ and NEOS. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silvan.]] How is this going to work together, ladies and gentlemen, if you are so upset? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, the third party concerns child care. EUR 1.6 billion has been invested in childcare. If you, ladies and gentlemen, are now asking for even more investment in childcare, I would like to stress that. But please also bear in mind: If we invest even more in childcare, in buildings, in shells, please also consider who should work in it. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, who?]] Even if we move the care key, which is country matter, to a deuce: The kindergarten pedagogues and kindergarten pedagogues go out to us. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Greiner.]] We don't have them anymore, those people who look at the children you think should have a right, a right to be forced to go to childcare. [[Calls of the Abg. Greiner.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I stand for childcare, but what you are calling for here, which is actually ambiguous, which does not correspond to the facts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vocal]] The fact is, there has been so much investment in childcare in Austria as in almost no European country. [[Abg. Künsberg-Sarre: That's not true!]] Please note! To sum up, I hope you will agree to this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8096	Reported as follows: Mrs Karin Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8117	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Stark, you're the mayor of Gleisdorf, how do the women in your community feel about this? – Child care: We don't need a right to a place, no claim. - How do the women see that? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To the budget: Mr Finanzminister, I shall begin my budget execution with a quote from you: The budget is “a statement towards the future”. [[Abg. Melchior: Bravo!]] Is that so, ladies and gentlemen? Let's take a closer look at this! Dear workers, you pay for the crisis! We know that. They also pay 85 percent of all taxes the state takes. Does the Minister of Finance want to change this? – No, but he makes sure that large corporations receive a tax gift in the form of millions. This is important to him, he lowers the corporate tax. What happens to you, dear workers? – Unfortunately, nothing happens. Even if it is said that it is the greatest tax reform of all time that the discharge is so enormous, at the latest after two years a possible advantage of the cold progression has been eaten up. The Minister does not say that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What about the care? Where is the big care reform? She was announced in big tones by the ex-cancer who is now sitting over there. Oh, that's right. He's got other worries. Care is not so important to him. He was happy to hear it, but the premiums announced are still not there. What about the kindergarten billion? Mr. Altkanzler does not want this either. It is important for him to encourage federal states to guarantee a right to care as children and families. That's not important to him. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: 1.6 billion, Mrs. Colleague! 1.6 billion!]] You, Minister of Finance, continue this course, and that is really pathetic. Let's take a look at: How do you feel about the transparency of the taxpayers' money? What about the more than 9 billion euros that have already been flown from your ministry to the Federal Finance Agency? Who's got how much why? – We don’t know because we don’t receive any answers from you. You personally, the ÖVP, Mr Vice-Chancellor and regrettably the Greens refuse to give Parliament control over what happens to these taxpayers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They refuse to control us. We are elected representatives of the people, and you protect the Blackbox. Even the Court of Auditors criticises Parliament's lack of transparency and control. That should make you think. Mr. Finanzminister, you are unfortunately acting in a non-transparent way. This budget is an announcement to your donors and your donors, but a bitter disappointment for the workers who pay at least 85 percent of our taxes.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8194	The next item is Mr Markus Koza. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8215	Madam President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Budget debates are so in themselves that the government parties are defending something that is in principle being attacked by the opposition. I can't remember that there had ever been a budget in which the opposition agreed to a government budget. That was true in the past, it is today, and it will remain that way in the future. Nevertheless, this debate is very important because budgets are known to be cast into figures policy. On budgets, the taxpayers, the government revenue, in order to deal with certain crises, will put in place certain measures, whatever they may be required to do. This 2022 budget, which is now ahead of us – I would like to focus above all on the budget – is also trying to best address the challenges of the future and the challenge that the Covid crisis has left us. This budget is not so different from other budgets, which have been tied under red-black, because the posts are quite the same, except for the item climate, which is significantly higher than in the years before. If we take a short look at the budget and look at what positions are such as large and how strong, then we see that the Social Chapter still has a very essential central role in this budget; the highest expenditure is available for pensions. If it is said, Jessas, these are loud past spending, that goes at the expense of our children, our future generations, I always wonder: The demands of the elderly people are there – do we want to shorten them? - No, we don't want that! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] The second largest budget is still education, and the third is labour market policy. Labour market policy is therefore so important and so central, because, while we are pleased to experience a relief from the labour market, we are happy to recover faster than we have believed, as economic research institutes, but we still have major problems in the field of long-term unemployment and because we simply have to prepare ourselves in the labour market for the future challenges that exist. This is the challenge of the climate crisis, which is the challenge of the socio-ecological transformation of our society, which is also the challenge of care. That is precisely why we have extended the expert scholarship, for example for care professions, but also for basic education professions, and therefore we have 300 million euros of fresh money for the Springboard initiative, for measures for long-term unemployed people, in this budget inside. That's it! Why anyone says that there's no such thing as that, I don't know. It's inside, it's used for it, it's always planned. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens, Mr Ottenschlager and Mr Weidinger.]] We have 20 million euros for work foundations in the field of environment, transport, for future professions, for skills in future professions, and we still have 170 million euros for education and qualification in the Corona work experience. That is, there is a lot going on, there's a lot planned, there's a lot going on. We'll see if it's enough. In the end, this also depends on whether the corona crisis is finally overcome, and in turn it depends on whether as many people as possible can be vaccinated. The question of economic upturn – that is clearly said by the economic research institutes – depends essentially on whether measures against Corona will again be needed. That's not what we all want, that's why: Leave the vaccine and look into the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8282	Next speaker: Mr Peter Weidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8306	Madam President. Estimated Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians, dear Austrians! Mr Muchitsch has put in space here that there will be too little money for care – the opposite is the case. Next year, 3.7 billion euros will be invested in care services, and 50 million euros will be spent on the care profession in 2022, 2023 and 2024. That's right, that's important, and that's a wise decision of this government. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The valued colleague Shetty, ladies and gentlemen – and I will not bring his biological age against him to the meeting, but very well the age of his ideas that he represents here – unfortunately makes an archival policy with which everything is spoken badly. I would like to stress that this government, with our Minister of Finance, is very clearly focusing on the future. Why? – It is about securing social peace, creating prosperity for as many people as possible and protecting citizens from the negative effects of climate change. [[Abg. Shetty: For the boys, too?]] This is happening with this eco-social tax reform. It is based on the conviction that the market economy with people, with innovators, creates ideas and innovations that solve our problems with Entrepreneur. In Austria, we have many businesses, especially in the field of Green Tech, which create jobs that sell future technologies into the world. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is also to be understood why the reduction of corporate tax is such a central measure. The old game of class struggle is always run by social democracy in particular. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Let's get rid of these old stencils! It is about homeing businesses, people and ideas in Austria and developing new ideas. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Prammer.]] 70 000 companies and companies – 70 percent of them do not make more than 100 000 euros, estimated colleagues and colleagues! These are primarily family companies, which are at home here in Austria, in the regions. These are businesses, these are family companies that create jobs in Austria and think in generations – such as the eco-social market economy. We relieve the people and the citizens, we lower the second and third income tax levels, we give people the money back and we raise the family bonus – a milestone in family policy. This is a Christian-social brand, which is the merit of this government. – Mr Finanzminister, thank you for that. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Prammer.]] Four objectives have been set by this government: To relieve people; to praise environmentally harmful behaviour – which is made for the first time – a quantum leap in Austria, a quantum leap in Europe that many other countries will follow; we strengthen the location with corporate tax reductions, especially for EPCs, by providing small economic goods with a depreciation of 1 000 euros; and, ladies and gentlemen, we protect the environment and create a contribution to debt reduction because this government is focusing on the future and the next generation. In this sense, one can summarize: This budget is a budget that relieves people and the economy and supports the environment. I'm also looking for your support for this path.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8367	Mr Jörg Leichtfried spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8391	Madam President. Mr Stark, in his speech, has relatively courageous, I would say, that no other country around the world or in Europe – that was not so clear – spends more on childcare than Austria. - That's wrong. The right thing is: There are many countries, such as Germany, Belgium, France, which have recently increased these funds by four to seven times and spend two thirds more on childcare than Austria. [[Abg. Ottenschlager: That's not an actual correction, that's an opinion...!]] [[Abg. Ottenschlager: This is not an actual correction!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The Julius Raab Foundation has at all noted that Austria is in child care in the last third of the EU, not the first, but the last third. That's how it looks!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8477	Next speaker: Mr Maximilian Lercher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8501	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Before I get into my speech: Mr Weidinger, you have spoken about class struggle that the Social Democracy is leading there – the opposite is the case. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] You make a class struggle from top to bottom with your budget, that's what you've written down in these numbers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Throw So you don't want us to go to class fight! [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's a kilnauer.]] Because you're so happy to talk about trust, trust that you've destroyed by the way: We would need confidence right now, and you could prove this to us with actions – with deeds! – if we were to decide today something that you did not allow out of the calcule of power. If you really think it is serious, then today you decide with us the right to childcare from the first year and the abolition of cold progression. It would be necessary to make restitutions, Mr Klubobmann, for the daily service providers in this country, who can rightly expect more from us, because this budget is a budget for the donors and not for the 85 percent who pay the tax! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The often conjured CO2 tax spares agricultural industry and corporations and is a mass tax without steering effect. The municipalities and cities remain with empty promises, and the financial strength they would urgently need for impulses in the regions will be denied them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The often and often conjured cities and communities are not shown in your budget, and that is not fair. You know, ladies and gentlemen, if you look at who really is system-relevant for you, if you're going through this budget and you're going through it, you can see: It's not the nurses, it's not the paramedics, it's not the masons. It's the donors! They get the premium, and the rest of it is denied. That, dearly, Ladies and gentlemen, it's not fair! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You know, we all have stopped building up confidence, but you, Mr Klubobmann, today have the opportunity to take the first step in your new role with motions for resolutions. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Prove us that you learn from mistakes, you show character, and we decide today for the normal people in this country, they deserve it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8576	The next item is Mrs Bedrana Ribo's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8602	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! We have heard a lot about how issues such as climate protection, justice, national defence et cetera have found their place in the budget. In addition to these very important areas, social agendas, including care, are also very important. The situation in the care is tense. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a secret, we all know that at the latest since the Corona crisis. Everyone who deals with the subject also knows how complex this topic is in Austria. That is, it is often necessary that changes, reforms in this system are involved in different levels and different stakeholders, which, of course, means that improvements and changes simply need their time. The Ministry of Social Affairs is currently working on high-speed tours and, of course, with the involvement of the countries, the preparatory work on the concrete reform steps in the care sector, because the countries – I would like to stress this again – are absolutely necessary for implementation. The government is important to care for. The Budget and Strategy Report therefore makes it clear that this issue is given a high priority in the government programme, but also in the current focus of the Federal Government. The cracking point in the care – and that's not a secret, ladies and gentlemen – is the staff. There are many things that we want and need to deal with in the care, but that requires more staff, namely by 2030, almost 100,000 more nurses. For this reason, the budget for the next three years is EUR 50 million for a training campaign in the care sector. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It was very important for us to ensure funding for several years. This will help to provide financial support for senior nursing staff during their training and during their internships, which is of course also important in terms of attracting the profession. Here too – I repeat that again – it needs cooperation and support from the countries. Furthermore, the financing of 150 Community courses over the next three years will be ensured in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be irresponsible to promise people something that they cannot comply with. That is why I do not promise the world either, and I do not promise that in the next one or two years we will be able to solve the staff problem in care, but we have taken concrete first steps with this budget. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That it needs more, we all know, and we all work on this more. I also ask the opposition parties and all the parties here to help. Perhaps we – some of us or others – will need care at some point, but at present it is that care needs all of us.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8657	The next item is Mrs Angela Baumgartner's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8682	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Our Minister for Finance Gernot Blümel presented yesterday a budget that can be seen. It's going to be ensure recovery and stability. Of course, in the medium term we need to get back down with the debt ratio and force a reduction in debt in order to be secure and prepared for future crises. We're on a good way. In 2015, the debt ratio accounted for 84.9% of GDP. We have not exceeded this quota during the whole crisis. A debt of 79.1 percent is forecast for 2022. This debt reduction also contributes to the eco-social tax reform. It relieves the Austrians and the local economy by 18 billion euros. 18 billion euros: That's not nothing. What I am particularly pleased about as mayor is that this budget contributes to strengthening the rural area and also to agriculture, because there is a need for every euro. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lercher.]] – Mr Lercher, the share of income for countries and municipalities will rise! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Lercher.]] Dear colleague Muchich – I don't see him right now, ah, he's sitting there – if you read something, please read everything and don't rip it out of the context! There can be no compulsory all day school without countries and communities, and that is what Sebastian Kurz said. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Greiner and Mr Yildirim.]] The fact is that since then EUR 1.6 billion has been invested in childcare. Under no one was done as much for the families as under Sebastian Kurz – I just say: Family bonus. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You learn to read meaningfully and to recognize contexts in folk school. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lercher.]] My sister is a folk school teacher. I'll ask her if she'll give you some help.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8773	Next speaker: Mrs Petra Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8797	Madam President. Dear Seers! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The tax reform and the current budget may have many objectives, and the reduction of poverty in Austria is certainly none of them. This is also reflected in the objectives of the budget for family and youth. It is not even planned to reduce the poverty risk rate. So far, family benefits have reduced the risk of poverty by 15 percent, and that is exactly what the goal is for the following years. So there is no ambition to combat poverty – really embarrassing for a rich country like Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Many services are also announced as support for those who really need them. The family bonus is the best example of not being the case. He is praised as a great support for all families, but especially the well-deserving family fathers. So the focus is on well-paid work. Those who need it most and who do most of the unpaid work get little or they get nothing at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Single parents are particularly disadvantaged in the family bonus. This group, once again forgotten, is really big. There are 162,000 single parents in Austria who care for 238,000 children. Imagine: This corresponds to the population of Vorarlberg – and almost 90 percent of these single parents are women who are also losers in the budget. Every child is worth a lot. – The family bonus does not follow this principle. According to the reform, there are 180 000 children who will not benefit from the family bonus or the additional child. The increase in the family bonus costs us all 500 million euros. If this amount had been added to the increase in family aid, each individual Austrian child would receive 280 euros more a year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One could have invested 500 million euros in benefits such as the expansion of childcare facilities. Then more than the five additional groups planned in the budget could be created in childcare facilities. It's a farce to think in such dimensions anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, six years ago, a fully planned package for the expansion of child care facilities for the power of former Chancellors was briefly prevented. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tanja Graf.]] Even today, the government parties, in particular the ÖVP, show no ambitions, expansion and legal claims. From our point of view, it is time for all families to get the support they need. However, the budget presented is not optimistic.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8864	There is now a statement on the actual correction of Mr Josef Muchichvor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8891	Madam President. Mrs Baumgartner has stated here that it is about all day schools in this chat. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] I'll put it right: Thomas Schmid, 16. June: “We need to look after banks that [cores and Mitterlehner] want [...] 1.2 billion for afternoon care with legal rights and agreements Federal Communities without countries! Megasprungstoff!’ [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Sebastian Kurz“It’s not good!!- Oh, my God! How can you stop that?”, “Can I stir up a federal land? ”
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8933	Mrs Eva Blimlinger has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8961	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear spectators and spectators! Today is a truly historical day. We have the highest art and culture budget in the Second Republic, and it has been increased to EUR 557 million. In 2021 it was EUR 496 million. This means an increase of 61 million euros, and that is truly historical. This has not been achieved by any federal government before. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] That's about 12 percent, and it allows us to continue all funding increases. Of the 61 million euros, 50 million are committed. I should like, above all, to mention briefly the safeguarding of the national art and cultural institutions, the Bundestheater and the Federal Museums, but with the important aspect of Fair Pay, namely the collective agreement with the Federal Museums. Furthermore, I would like to mention the EU's reconstruction plan, but also – which is particularly important to me – the promotion of the free scene, contemporary art and also there in special fair pay. This is the focus that we shall set. One important point is that the programmes made in the EU Building Fund, for example the renovation of the Volkskundemuseum, will also be included in it. That is, it is really a great day for art and culture, but also a great day for science and research. It has succeeded in assigning 140 million euros per year to the National Foundation. This is 140 million euros each year by 2025 and 400 million euros for climate research. Of course, I still believe that the Windisch-Kaserne should be renamed Richard-Wadani-Kaserne.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9009	Mr Klubobmann Sebastian has just spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9033	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! High house! But above all: Estimated taxpayers! The last 1.5 years of the pandemic have required us a lot in Austria, but also across Europe and beyond. There was a massive collapse of the world economy, countless people lost their jobs and it was a huge burden for many. Thanks to the vaccination, we have not only experienced the possibility of returning to normality, but we have experienced economic growth of 4 to 5 percent – and unemployment is now lower than it was before the crisis. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] At this point I would like to thank all those responsible and all the negotiators, especially the Minister for Finance. Our aim was to ensure that all people in our country now benefit from this upturn. [[Prolonged congratulation with the ÖVP and congratulation with Green MEPs.]] It is good that there is a solid budget for the Republic of Austria, but the most important thing is that this budget also includes a tax reform. In this tax reform, we ensure that small and medium-sized incomes are relieved, that families benefit and that all those who have worked for their lives receive more – the pensioners who have grown up in our country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] After ten years of government experience, I know that debates here in the House have a clear structure: Defend the government groups that criticize the opposition. At the end of the day, the voting behaviour is also clear: Government groups agree, opposition agrees. But the beauty of a tax reform is: It will be felt for people at the end of the day. The family bonus is increased from 1 500 euros to 2 000 euros per child. The wage tax is reduced from 35 to 30 and from 42 to 40 percent, and the most important is: Because we have people who earn little and don't pay taxes, we also reduce social security contributions, so that those who don't pay any more taxes in our country can also benefit. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Prolonged congratulation with the ÖVP and congratulation with Green MEPs.]] Previously, the mathematics arts of Prof. Taschner have been addressed, but you don't have to be a big mathematician to calculate how much an average family benefits from this reform. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] A family with two children, in which both parents work and generate an average income, receives more than 2 000 euros per year in relief. Yes, thanks to the family bonus and this tax reform, we are now a country where families with an average income will not pay any more taxes. [[call to the FPÖ.]] This is good and right, because families make a double contribution: on the one hand, by going to work and on the other, by raising children and thus ensuring our future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Prolonged congratulation with the ÖVP and congratulation with Green MEPs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it has also been discussed today that this tax reform also includes measures to strengthen the economic location. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Of course, one can criticize this as a support for companies – but I think we have seen in the last year the pandemic all the effects it has if the economy is not doing well, and how quickly a difficult situation for a company can cause hundreds of thousands of people to lose work. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Belakovich]] I can tell you: At the most beautiful moments in my time in the Federal Government, it was when companies decided to invest in Austria and create jobs – regardless of whether Infineon, ABB or other, and also domestic companies that have existed in our country for generations. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] If we do not make sure that we are a strong economic location, if we are not courageous and also ensure that it is attractive to invest in Austria, we are at risk of losing jobs in the long term and creating jobs elsewhere in the world instead. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Call at the SPÖ: An excuse would be appropriate!]] Last but not least to ecologize: In addition to the relief for working people and the strengthening of the site, we are committed to the ecologicalisation of our tax law. You can also see that critically. On the other hand, I would have been able to brutally enforce these ecological aspects with the wood hammer from today to tomorrow; but in the medium term to create a steering effect, so that in the medium term environmental behaviour becomes more expensive and environmentally friendly behaviour pays off to create a steering effect in the medium term that people notice, it makes sense to switch to new technologies, to more environmentally friendly technologies, that is right, that is responsible and that is what we owe to creation and our environment. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I would like to congratulate the Minister of Finance on the fact that, from my point of view, a good mix has been achieved, namely to relieve the working people in our country, and to ensure that the upturn is coming to everyone, but also to act responsibly and to act in such a way that the debt ratio, which has grown massively during the pandemic, also falls again until the end of the legislative period; for, just as it is necessary to respond in times of crisis and take money, it is necessary now to ensure that the budget is under control, that no over-indebtedness of the Republic takes place and that we are as capable of doing in the next crisis as we were this time. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, another remark which, I believe, is not insignificant: [[Call the SPÖ: You're apologizing!]] We are currently in a phase of economic growth, unemployment is falling, we are standing well, but we must all be aware: The reason for this is that we have the pandemic under control and that through vaccination we have been able to return to normality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] It is still a volatile situation, which is why, not only in order to protect our health, but above all in order to ensure that the economy continues to grow, that jobs are preserved, we need to move on with the issue of vaccination. This means not only gaining one or another who has not yet been vaccinated, but also – and I am grateful to the Federal Government for focusing on it – that all those who receive their third vaccination, which they need, so that the normality we are now experiencing, the economic growth that we are now experiencing, and the lowest unemployment rates we are now experiencing, are not only a short-term phase, but also a medium-term one. [[Call the SPÖ: Wöinger!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: What is the lowest unemployment rate?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9229	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I would like to tell you that I have received the preliminary Stenographical Protocol because I have not heard it exactly. After his studies, I give to Mrs Baumgartner for the statement: “Dear colleagues from SPÖ! To read in a sense and to recognize contexts you learn in the folk school", you get “Afterhelp” et cetera, of course a call for order. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Please!]] [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of the ÖVP.]] I now give the floor to Member Christoph Matznetter.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9283	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank and in the Members' Series! [[Abg. Melchior: Now comes an order call after another!]] Mr Kurz. The side jump here instead of the actually initiated withdrawal can also have something good: You may be able to learn here at the House of Deputies that a little respect for the representation of the people is appropriate. [[Abg. Lopatka: The optics alone...!]] The way you've been showing up in these years, quite noticeably the contempt here for this house, all of this you can now do positively from the other side. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: You have to say that!]] But a bit of what you could have learned; For example, you could have apologized for what came out of your first speech. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You say in interviews that you are not a robot, but the human part, Mr. Kurz, would have been to apologize to all those who have been victims on this path. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I don't mean just those killed people like Reinhold Mitterlehner. I am also referring to the hundreds of thousands of women, children and fathers, for example, who, for their part, did not wish the form of the legal claim, had enormous difficulties in bringing work and family into one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It would be good for you to just say to these people: Excuse me, my career was more important than how you're doing! [[Abg. Eßl: Could you not say that six years ago?]] Now come back to this topic: There are representatives of the ÖVP and explain that everything would have been done anyway. The legal claim does not exist yet, although it is not only left-wing organisations such as the Industrial Union that demand it. So it can't be so difficult for the ÖVP. Right to support in the afternoon, quite simply, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] We can do this today, tomorrow, next week, to do what you do not apologise for, Mr Kurz, to be renunciated at least five years later! However, I do not want to leave the issue of the grant-privileged nature of this tax reform. There is a head of government who has made the increase in corporate tax from 21 percent to 28 percent the programme, and this in order to set up a billion-heavy programme for renewable energy, infrastructure and, above all, for social things. This head of government is called Joe Biden. It is seen that youth-fresh politics does not depend on age. This step is the exact opposite of what is provided here by – in the meantime – black and green. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is not an announcement for the future, it is nothing but an attempt to promote your own donors. You would have had enough points where a corporate tax would be to be reduced. Now I watch consciously the neo-repute from the Styria Kurt Egger or Peter Haubner, Gabriel Obernosterer and Franz Hörl. Our small GesmbHs pay 1,750 Euro Minimum-Köst. In 2013, SPÖ has laboriously maintained that it has been lowered at least in the first ten years. This is an infinite tax for those who have only zero profit. Is there anything about it? No reduction, no abolition, no, where most is paid, will be screwed down, those who need it will get exactly nothing. [[Abg. No, no, no!]] Honestly, dear green friends, for this referendum it has not paid off to continue to maintain this coalition. As regards ecobonus: I'm Liesinger. Let's take an excursion to the Ketzergasse! The houses with the numbers 228 and 251 are exactly 10 meters from each other. Explain to the residents of the rental house why they get less ecobonus than those on the other side of the street! That's where you see how reasonable your reforms are. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9416	Next speaker: Mr Andreas Ottenschlager.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9440	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. Values Advisors! Just a sentence on my colleague Matznetter – I think I have said it a few times on this pult –: The fact that you represent the economy and the entrepreneurs in this country does not believe that today. – So much for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, in view of the debate that has now been held, I would like to make sure that the audiences are informed and informed. SMS messages are always torn completely out of context and the facts are twisted. [[Call the SPÖ:Yes! Yes! That's right!]] [[Abg. Singer: Uij!]] [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] On the basis of the example of the debate on childcare, I would like to say, as has been said, especially for the spectators, because most of the opposition members do not want to hear: Childcare is in the performance of the federal states, in so far as it is perfectly clear that the federal states are also involved accordingly in a matter such as this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] And nothing else did Sebastian Just then mean that no proper programme can be implemented without the federal states. - Fact number one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Fact number two: The financial resources flow. 1.6 billion euros have been made available for childcare since 2017. - So much for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Yildirim: It just doesn't matter! ...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Fact number three: What was the point of the discussion then? – It was also a question of whether the whole day school is being introduced in a mandatory way, or whether we should be free to vote for our families – for which we have acted and Sebastian has also intervened in a short time and is still doing so today. And we are still standing on this freedom of choice today! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, I would like to address three more issues. One also concerns the budget, Mr. Finanzminister. I would also like to thank the government partner for making it possible to achieve this package and to create a balanced budget. Much has already been said about what I do not want to repeat, but a sentence on the subject of eco-social tax reform has been allowed to me: If CO2 pricing is criticized – it is too low – I would like to point out that many countries that have introduced this CO2 pricing, such as their colleagues in Germany, have started and are on the move at a similar level. By the way, the refund to the citizens, the ecobonus, is not a purely Austrian invention either, we are just making it better. Scandinavian countries, which you have repeatedly presented as an example, or Switzerland also have similar systems. – So much has been added here once. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Furthermore, the advertising of federal and state governments was addressed here. Ladies and gentlemen, you can discuss this and criticize it and make better proposals. At SPÖ my hope is not very great, but I now look into the ranks of NEOS Dear Members, you have been sitting with SPÖ in Vienna in the state government for a year. [[Abg. Double builder: Media transparency law!]] I have not heard yet that you have the largest budget for advertisements and campaigns in this state in Vienna. I think if you calculate it together: All other federal states have – together! – not as much budget as the city of Vienna. Maybe you'll start there and show an example here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Finally, one thing, because regarding various chat messages, the moral question was also addressed: Everyone should look into his own phone, what he wrote. Maybe think about it. On the part of the SPÖ you have to deal with it, or ask Mrs Rendi-Wagner what she believes, what is on Mr Doskozil's phone – then you will no longer be here with this moral increase and give such attitudes of yours. You should really think about that.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9584	Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek has spoken on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9616	Madam President. Mr Ottenschlager has just claimed that child care, which is in the hands of the country, has been and will always be included. - That's wrong. In fact, the right thing is: Thomas Schmid an Sebastian Kurz“We have to watch out for banks. The” – core and middle-leigher – “will [...] 1.2 billion for afternoon care with legal claim and agreements federal municipalities without countries! Mega explosive!” – Sebastian Kurz“It’s not good!!- Oh, my God! [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, eh! Yeah, hey!]] How can you stop that?" “Can I incite a federal country?” – And “arousing” is the opposite of involving it.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9686	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9708	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Finanzminister! A few quotes from yesterday's budget speech were received. A headline on one of the first pages reads: ‘Vaccine as a return to normality’. That's what it says: “With vaccination, mankind has received an effective antidote, not even a year after the outbreak of the global pandemic. [...] But this achievement does not help if people do not take advantage of this offer. [...] Just before winter, I therefore appeal to everyone’s to be vaccinated. Mr Finanzminister, one question: What did this lose in a budget speech? Is that now vaccinated budgeting or something similar? What do you call that? – So in my simplicity I understand that I have my health questions and the question of whether I should be vaccinated or not, discuss with my doctor, but I can also come to the Ministry of Finance and we can discuss this with you. I invite all Austrians who have not yet been vaccinated to ask the Minister of Finance for his advice. Maybe you can book an appointment with him. This paper could now do what Mr Schallenberg did yesterday with the documents of Mrs Meinl-Reisinger. [[keeping a copy of the budget speech issued by the Federal Ministry of Finance]] You could get rid of it behind the back. [[signified a throw over the shoulder]] I do not do that now, Madam President, I do not want to scare you, and it would be disrespectful. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Klubobmann Kurz, but now we are on the subject. You spoke quite a bit at the end of the debate, and I expected your speech. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Straster: A great speech!]] I would have expected an excuse from Mr Klubobmann for the Austrian population, an excuse for the damage he has done to this country, to our citizens, to democracy, to our beautiful Republic, and the citizens would have expected it. [[Abg. Eßl: For what?]] Instead, he places himself here, celebrates himself and says: It's actually everything that's critical to me right now, I didn't break anything, I'm always the poor one anyway! Ladies and gentlemen! Especially disrespectful is my view of the very clear choice of words in relation to his own – possibly – comrades, who have stood by and have always promoted one. That's not decent, it's not morally intimate, it's not characterless! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The problem of history is that: Much has already been said about the moral image that was drawn here yesterday. It's also true: This is not the moral picture of politics as a whole, but it is the moral image of the turquoise ÖVP! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But there is a problem, namely: The simple voters and the simple person on the street say: Yes, when you hear that, you see again, they're all the same anyway! I'm against it! I am not the same as Mr Kurz, you, the esteemed Social Democrats, it is not the Greens, it is not the NEOS, and neither are my liberal colleagues! [[new calls to the ÖVP]] We are not the same – we are not the same as Mr Kurz and his system, and we will say so accordingly! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka.]] It's sad. You are responsible for the fact that the vote will probably continue to decline in the next few years – a sad sign in this democracy. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Every colleague who says: I am not like that!, is called to bring that in the future to his electorate in his constituency, in his district, in his community. I do not even want to know what words Mr Kurz and his party, if they have already found such clear words to their own honourable people, then to the simple citizen who has found the voters when they have decided: We now turn surveys, we sell the citizens for stupid and depressing, with the companies and media et cetera we own! – It’s a very, very sad picture that comes about, and I don’t understand many people in the ÖVP, of which I know they’re decent people. [[Call the SPÖ: Well!]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Instead, Mr. Obernosterer came out yesterday and was outraged at the evil opposition about us saying: Mr Kurz and the ÖVP are to blame. - Well, please: How poor is the ÖVP already? That's the way it is! It's true you're to blame! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I'm giving you advice now: Take the broom and turn in front of your own door, don't always point your finger at the others! Then you may have earned the attribute state-bearing again, because at present, with this turquoise game, you are not state-bearing. That's not the case, de facto. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] To Mr. August Wöginger, who always appears as a Bible citation: Whoever is without sin, throw the first stone! – I am now telling him something that a priest once told me when I started in politics. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] He has also put a quote in my heart, and this is still my heart today. He said: “Where pride is, there is also shame; but wisdom is with the humble.” – In short, incorruptible harm has been done. This is also his shame – an anagram of his pride.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9854	Next item is the report by Mr Gerald Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9875	Madam President. Estimated Minister! High house! Dear taxpayers! Yeah, it's right. The end-of-life in 2020 was 22.5 billion euros. An unimaginable sum – that's 22 500 million euros. The end of this year will reach a similar dimension. This is an incredible pile of money, which of you, dear taxpayers, will eventually be refunded, and as we have seen, the money redistribution continues from bottom to top. The broad mass has to pay for this token that the great ones have done up here, and that's the insanity! The question I'm asking now is: What's homemade and what have you been suffocating yourself? Mr Wöginger, who is not here now, has spoken of the biggest economic crisis, and the clubman of the ÖVP also says that we have a massive collapse of the economy. Let us now take a look at the facts that this government itself has contributed to this and how it has greatly increased our debt, because it has been advice-resistant! [[a table with the results of the 2020/2021 season in Austria and Switzerland on the speaker's desk]] You know, I'm the tourist speaker, and now I'm making a comparison between Switzerland and Austria. In the first lockdown, Switzerland has followed the same path as Austria: She locked up the country. The break-in was massive. Switzerland, however, has learned to do so: It has, as you know, given a second lockdown from November last year to May this year, and Switzerland has opened the hotels, even the cable cars were open. Under the rule, they realized that the economy must be made to work, that money must be earned and that this money does not come out of the magic box and flows into the economy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Please look at this graphic: Switzerland, for example, had only 20 per cent of a night's sleep in the last of April, while in Austria in April we had an 87 per cent nocturnal minus – even in debt – permanent lockdown. Look at you – I'll take a number out: In January 2021 Austria had a reduction of 95 percent, Switzerland only one of 50 percent. [[Abg. Hörl: Because the border was too!]] The Swiss have had only 30 percent loss of value under the line. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hörl.]] We as the Freedom Party have demanded in this House: Locks up at least the apartments and holiday homes! Let's get money in hand to create security concepts! – Dear Franz Hörl, we have created security concepts, only the security concepts that we have created have applied the Swiss – our security concepts! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hörl.]] You have watched, you too, from the Chamber of Commerce, that the tourism sector has been locked in with us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This has, of course, caused massive damage to the economy and to the employees. The employees have therefore left the industry. Now we are missing 50,000 employees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Salzmann.]] Why did they go? – Because they do not come out over a three-quarters year with a net replacement rate of 55 percent. That too is self-indebted. We wanted the net replacement rate to be increased to 70 percent – you refused. Thus you have made a big contribution – unfortunately God’s negative – to the fact that now massive employees are missing. [[Taking the table from the speaker's desk]] Another quick word on so-called sustainability: I am always amazed at what is now all sustainable. The budget is sustainable, environmental policy is sustainable. Ladies and gentlemen, this too is sustainable. [[a picture on the speaker’s desk, on which the Austrian Expo Pavilion in Dubai is to be seen, consisting of cone-shaped structures]] What do you see in this picture? What do you know? - These are shoots. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] This is presented as sustainable by the Austrian advertising, by Austrian tourism advertising. This is our stand at the Expo in Dubai, which is currently running, and this is sold to us by Austrians as sustainable sales. It is therefore a burning of money, from a permanent lockdown to a tourist advertising that is neither sustainable nor domestic. For what the Austrian advertising has presented there and what we are doing now, I enjoy that, I honestly say. It is money that could be used much, much better than burning it for such things that are not sustainable. [[Keeping the image in height]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9994	The next item is Mrs Julia Herr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10015	In fact, I wanted to welcome the new colleagues, the new member of the National Council, in short, but after his very first speech and the expected critical speeches he has now gone out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Upper Noster]] [[Abg. Ottenschlager: This was the first time!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] Is this the responsible policy that, when criticism comes, one goes out? [[Extensive opposition to the ÖVP.]] [[Call to the ÖVP:It's not ridiculous anymore!]] Everyone just answered his first speech. [[Call to the ÖVP: Where is your group chairman?]] [[Abg. Sieber: Where is Pamela Rendi-Wagner? Where is she?]] [[Call the ÖVP: Go, don't be ridiculous!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: That's a joke!]] – Yes, there you are quite nervous, but what I wanted to say is that was the first speech by honourable Members in short, after that there were a few speeches that replicated directly on him, and then he got up. [[ongoing calls to the ÖVP]] [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] What I wanted to tell him is - - – I like to tell you too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Straster.]] [[Abg. Lopatka!]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10155	Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor briefly. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you know: Intervening calls are a parliamentary instrument, and we are therefore making use of them. It just doesn't go so far that you can't hear the speaker or the speaker anymore. That is to say, I would ask that we reduce the noise level again a little so that the honourable Members can now continue their remarks. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10176	Thank you, Madam President. – There you can see how nervous the ÖVP is at present. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Straster.]] I understand, in the government it's probably not that round, there's some chats. [[Call to the ÖVP: Where is the Rendi-Wagner?]] But I simply ask you the question I wanted to put to you by Mr Kurz. [[Abg. Wöginger: Klubobmann is he!]] I have listened very closely to him and the excuse has still not been made. [[Abg. Lopatka: There you can learn something!]] Are they still coming? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Also addressed to you: Is there another excuse for the families in this [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Country the right to child care was taken as we could all read in the chats? Mr Ottenschlager comes out and says: No, he has not sprung anything, it was only the countries that were not involved!, back and forth. We were able to read it very carefully. Since the federal states were lifted up in order to simply prevent this reform. [[Abg. Steinacker: That's not true at all, that's not true!]] [[Abg. Steinacker: You don't know that! You claim...!]] – I can read that, black on white, but okay, you're nervous, the nerves are white, that's understandable. [[Abg. Steinacker: You claim...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I therefore come to another point I wanted to address, the eco-social tax reform. [[New call of the abg. Steinacker.]] We have heard: historically!, we have heard: Quantum jump!, all these words. I want to sort it out for a second. There are 80 million tonnes of CO2 emissions in this country. The CO2 price is not even valid for half because 30 million tonnes for industry were immediately excluded from the outset. It is true – the Greens pointed out earlier – that the trade in certificates is at EU level, but you also want to extend free certificates here – Minister Schramböck – in order to exclude precisely those companies that have such a large CO2 emissions; first clientele that the ÖVP has excluded. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Secondly, agriculture. About 10 million tonnes come from agriculture. methane is apparently not as dangerous a greenhouse gas as CO2, because that is what you have excluded. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The third group, the people with many real estates, property owners, owners who rent their properties, you also have the same exception. The tenant and the tenant are supposed to pay the CO2 price, although they are nothing – nothing! – have to deal with the heating system, because that would have to be changed by the landlord. Well, it's clear. Some groups have you excluded, the working people should pay it. What will be left of it? – The savings potential of about 1 percent. [[Abg. Lopatka: Stay with the truth!]] [[Abg. Berlakovich: That's just not true!]] I'm not saying this in a chemical way, because I also want to save CO2, and I'm just asking: What do we do with the other 99 percent? [[Abg. Lopatka: Lies have short legs!]] My proposal would be: Finally, we are creating a climate protection law with real legal savings targets that have been missing in this country for a year! We have no statutory CO2 reduction targets. That would be important. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10371	Mr. Klubobmann Wöginger, on business treatment? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10397	I am seeking that we do not start a discussion about the presence of club members here in the plenary room. I've assumed that this will come when Sebastian Kurzals Klubobmann is praised. [[call to the FPÖ.]] My colleague Rendi-Wagner – I'm just saying it; we wrote yesterday – was present for an hour, from 10 a.m. to 11 p.m., and then from 7 p.m. to the end, otherwise not the whole day. [[Call the SPÖ:Do you have a smear file again? Who wrote that? Mr. Hanger?]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I'm really trying to leave that alone. There are not all opposition club observers here now. We've never done that before, and I'm trying to make sure that's not done now.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10446	For business treatment: Please, Mr Leichfried.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10480	So it's interesting that already in the National Council of Schmuddel dossiers are already being written. [[Abg. Lopatka: What?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I would mean – I may be a little more critical than Mr Wöginger – that is not the place to do this, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Wöginger: You did it!]] [[Call the ÖVP: ‘Smooth files’? A call for order, that's an injunction!]] We have to debate and exchange, but not make notes on each other! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is not what I imagine under parliamentarianism. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] To the specific case: Yes, of course not all Members of this House are always here. [[Abg. Wögerer: Yeah, then leave it!]] I don't want to make a difference, but I would have expected something. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] I'm going out of my way: If I give my first speech here as a Member, I expect that it will also be replicated. [[Call the ÖVP: He's already done that!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If it were replicated, I would have been present. [[Abg. Lopatka: I can't do that anymore!]] This may be another access to this issue, but that would be my access to it, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10611	Please, Mr Scherak.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10646	I do not want to interfere in the discussion between SPÖ and ÖVP at all, but I should just like to point out in principle what we agreed on at the Presidential Conference: that it is still possible because of the pandemic that Members from the club rooms, also from the roof foyer of the meeting, will follow. This may be a fundamental thing we should remember. I find these debates to be quite unnecessary, especially in the light of what we have agreed upon.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10676	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. For the spectators, I can also say that it is quite normal, of course, that mandates cannot always be present – you take a small meal once, you also have dates in between. I can only say what I read from the complaint emails is, rather, that the spectators complain that the mandaters are so often concerned with the mobile phone. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Laimer.]] There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. I assign the Government template 1034 to the Budget Committee. [[13:05:31]] 2. Point Report by the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth on the application 1734/A(E) by Mr Edith Mühlberghuber, colleagues on school starting fees for all primary and secondary school pupils (1065 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10748	We now come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10775	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! Values Advisors! We all know that starting school is a huge financial burden, especially for parents. School materials, booklets, pens, school bags, calculators et cetera, are expensive. All of this is actually no longer a real contribution-free school. On average, the expenditure of parents to start school amounts to about 100 to 300 euros. The Chamber of Workers has also made a study on the start of the school: In the last school year, parents spent an average of EUR 2 132 for their children's schooling. Of course, the Corona crisis also leaves traces in the budgets of the families, even last year. Single parents are particularly affected by this, which of course also affects the participation of their children. That is why we have made two applications on school start-up fees as SPÖ. One has been postponed, one has been rejected. We are discussing these today, namely those for the doubling of school start-up fees. This is in our opinion, as school start-ups are becoming increasingly expensive, a positive and an important development. The school start-up fee was introduced in 2011 and paid out for the first time. As the costs are always rising, it would be important to make a further development and double the start-up fee to 200 euros. This support must simply happen. We are not quite sure that the Federal Government will simply look away when it comes to this financial summit in a calendar year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In our opinion, it needs a relief from parents, support for children and young people, through the doubling of school start-up fees. The early payout would also be very important – for this the second request was. We know that at the end of a school year, lists of teaching materials are often provided. Trade already has the first offers in summer when it comes to school materials. A payout of the school start-up fee in September is simply too late. The support should then be paid if the financial burden actually falls in the summer, in August. We also discussed this in committee, and I was really shocked by the argument that was then introduced at the time of the postponement: You're not sure if the money to start school is actually there with the families. – I think that’s really an increase and a premise that this school start-up fee is being alienated. I think it can already be trusted to the families that children and young people also benefit from the start of school. To discuss such a thing at all is actually quite last-class. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Next year we will remind the government groups of this really extremely constructive proposal, because we were promised that the Ministry of Finance would check the early payment. We believe it would be possible. It must be possible by summer 2022 at the latest. At the latest, we'll remind you. We also hope that this support will actually come for the families.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10829	Maria Großbauer is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10854	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Four and a half weeks ago, the school started again and as a mother of a seven-year-old son, who entered the 2nd place. Class folk school goes, I'm very glad. We all know: School means much more than learning, school means community, it also means friendship and hopefully fun again, because it can now use children and young people urgently again after the pandemic. Yes, school start is also a challenge for everyone, a logistical challenge, but of course also a financial challenge. That is why, every year, the school start-up fee is 100 euros for all children aged six to 15 years, i.e. as long as the school is compulsory, and the family allowance is automatically paid in September. The SPÖ would have liked to re-emerged the moneyshed can, flat-rate doubled from 100 to 200 euros. Apart from the fact that this would be an additional burden on the budget by EUR 90 million, I do not fully understand the logic behind it, because you demand 200 euros, but there are 2 000 euros for each child – with the family bonus Plus. So you have to say: Stay with the facts, too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Loacker: It doesn't make everyone as much as you do!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] What else is there about child and family benefits? – Austria is – and that is fact – in Europe in third place in the financial family benefits. 10 percent of the federal budget benefits families. In 2020 alone, 8 billion euros were paid in family benefits. If we are already at school, of course I also have to address the topic of childcare: I told you earlier, I'm also a mom, I'm a working mother of a seven-year-old son. Childcare is of course important to me and is important to us and I also need it and I want it. But let's stick to the facts: Yes, there were 2016 discussions between ÖVP and SPÖ for school afternoon care, and that's no secret that was in the media. I have here an article from the daily “The Press” of 15. July 2016, that's thematic. [[keeping a copy of the said article up to date]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shetty.]] 750 million euros for all day schools?, there was the question, and there also says: “SPÖ and ÖVP are different.” – Well, then it is no wonder that this is also discussed internally. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Shetty.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] What was the problem? – A mandatory all day school, we simply don’t see that, that’s not our access. I want to be able to decide for myself when my child goes into day care as often as and how long. That doesn't always have to be all day, maybe I want to make it flexible. In addition, I might also want to promote my child's talent and decide for myself whether it's going to football training three times a week or learning an instrument or, or, in the afternoon. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kucharovich.]] We stand for freedom of choice. – That was the discussion, no more and no less. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You also know very well that in the field of school federal, national and local authorities must work together, otherwise it will not work. Ask your mayors what this is like! And yes, there is even a legal claim, since 2016, from 15 children. Small communities may not be able to vote this alone, ask your mayors once! That's also a fact, and it wasn't a secret that we're not for a whole day school. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our Federal Minister Susanne Raab commits himself insanely to families and children, and to say here, something has been prevented: Stay with the facts! [[Abg. Kucharovich: Stay with the facts!]] Since 2016, not only 1.2 billion euros have been invested, no, 1.6 billion euros have been invested in day care for children. So: Here it is designed, please stick to the facts!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10962	Mrs Selma Yildirim spoke in favour of an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10986	In her speech, Member Maria Großbauer has claimed that there will be 2 000 euros for each child with the Family Bonus Plus. - That's wrong. [[Call to the ÖVP: She didn't say that either!]] The right thing is: Only if there are correspondingly high tax benefits will there be up to 2 000 euros per child. All those – and this concerns two thirds of women – who have to persist in part-time employment are about EUR 2 000. That means that this is not only a sub-above distribution, but also a redistribution of money from women to men. [[Abg. Eßl: What do you want to tell us now?]] That is why we are so outrageous about these 1.2 billion euros, which Mr Sebastian has actively prevented. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Beak: Is this an actual correction?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] That is why we have said that the federal government directly to the municipalities, because the countries -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11056	Ladies and gentlemen, you have started perfectly within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure, but you now have to leave out the part of the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11071	All right, it's correct. The claim is therefore incorrect, Mrs Großbauer.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11105	Mrs Edith Mühlberghubergelangt. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11129	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, we all know or should actually know that schoolchildren cost a lot of money. It is precisely the beginning of school that many parents get very expensive and they are financially burdened, because a start-up package for school beginners costs far more than 100 euros, and parents have to pay a lot to their primary school students at the start of school. On average, the parents' expenses at school are up to 300 euros per school child. But that's not all: In the course of the school year, additional costs are added, such as for copies, school trips, theatre visits, ski courses, school sports weeks, language weeks, familiar learning days – and all this goes into the parents' money bag. The higher the school level, the higher the cost. In the area of higher school levels, it is even 1 400 to 2 000 euros per child and per school year. Especially for parents with a lower income or for single parents, this is often difficult to finance. The school start-up fee of EUR 100 will be paid in September with the family allowance, and this applies only to children aged six to 15 years. For children over 15 years of age who attend a secondary school or upper secondary school in the gymnasium, there is no school start-up fee. We think this is unfair, unfair. We say that parents must no longer be disadvantaged by these young people. Therefore, we think that our application is correct and important, we want the school starting fee for all students of primary and secondary levels. This proposal is perfectly correct. To the request of the SPÖ, that of Mrs Holzleitner, who wants to double the school start fee from EUR 100 to EUR 200: We have already voted in committee and supported this request. We are also in favour of the payment being preferred that this amount be paid out earlier, in August, because many parents buy the school items earlier, many already get the shopping lists at the end of the school and are also looking for offers. That is why we believe that this request is supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11162	Mrs Barbara Neßler is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11187	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers and Seers! Allow me to begin Mr President, there have been complaints from the audiences who have noted that we are very much on the phone. Maybe just briefly to the explanation: We are not at Candy-Crush games or other games, but we have to use it as a work equipment, we also have the Parliament app on the phone. Even if that makes a questionable picture, but we are on the phone because it is a work equipment – this is only for clarification. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP, representatives of the SPÖ and the Agg. Bernhard.]] Childcare: I don't want to talk about it so much now, but I'd like to talk about it afterwards, but I'd say: We have a long way to go, and we just need to see that we really are moving forward with quick steps, in the sense of the economy, in the sense of equality and especially in the sense of children. Yes, the start of school is a financial challenge for many families, especially families with several children, especially those with social assistance or minimum insurance. That is hardly to be voted financially, I think so much is clear. To Mr Holzleitner's request that the school start-up fee be paid in August, we have said that we are looking at this because this is a constructive, good proposal. For school start-up fees in general: Let's take a look back and look at the whole thing a little bit! In 2010 the then government, in which the SPÖ set the chancellor, became the 13th chancellor. Family aid deleted and replaced by the school start-up fee of EUR 100 or, honestly, reduced, at least partially compensated for this in the school year 2015/2016 by the Austrian introduction of the school start-up package. Fortunately, the start-up package is still available now, it is financed by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the European Aid Fund. The evaluation of the measure is, by the way, a very good testimonie: 90 percent of the respondents have indicated that they consider it very helpful and as great support. So the school starter package is perfectly safe, because it comes exactly to those households that really need it. But it is not only about financial compensation, it is also about the so-called benefits in kind, because we must not forget that the school is no longer entirely analogous, but also about digitization in schools. We know that the electronic equipment is much more expensive than a few school notes, and therefore we have with the laptops or tablets for the 5th and 6th. School levels started a very good action, with a maximum self retention of 25 percent, divided into four years. That's 25 euros a year, and for low-income families it's completely free. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Beak.]] We are also currently increasing the student allowance, which has not been valorised since 2008. We see that we can expand the circle of references. We will probably be able to put something in the plenary session in December. Summary: I do not think much of it, if we start to disburse the money by means of the principle of foundry, because we have to see that we are creating a financial compensation in our society. This is not the best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11250	The honourable Member, Maximilian Köllner, is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11276	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that we have the opportunity to address the concerns and problems relatively early on in the agenda, in part the anger that many families in Austria have right to address, because what has come to the public in recent days has at the same time made many families in Austria unscathed and angry at the same time. In fact, it's not easy and angry about what the turquoise family understands under family policy – and it's less about how you deal with each other in your turquoise party family, that's what you're left to do. But if we are talking about family policy as a SPÖ, it is about improving people's living situations in our country. Sebastian Kurz and his Pratorians, on the other hand, have obviously never really been interested in it, seriously interested in how a single mother feels, for example, that needs to put a job and education into a hat. They have provided the proof in the chat processes themselves of where their priorities lie, namely: Instead of more than 1 billion euros for the expansion of full-day school forms and afternoon care, there is 1 billion euros in tax gifts for corporations, for the big donors of Sebastian Kurz. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Beak.]] That is really the family policy of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Sebastian Kurz has placed his personal interests in the interests of the people, and he has thus prevented important achievements for children, parents and women, for countless families who needed this support especially in times of the corona pandemic. That's what people do so badly to him. You'd have had the chance to break this up again now! As part of these meetings, we have again tabled a request for the provision of a babysitting billion, which you, the government parties of ÖVP and Greens, have rejected, and we have put in place other important initiatives on the part of SPÖ in the Committee to support families – ladies and gentlemen have already mentioned it. This includes the doubling of the school start-up fee from 100 euros to 200 euros, but also the disbursement of the school start-up fee already in August, because parents make many purchases for the children already in the summer. There is no support for our requests either on the part of the government parties. Sebastian Kurz has perhaps changed the place, his turquoise system sits with back cover of the Greens but still on this government bank, and this must be painful for the families in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11344	Next speaker is Member Michael Bernhard. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11368	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Ladies and gentlemen! The proposals we are discussing now are whether or not to double the school start-up fee or whether it should be extended or not. I say to my group, the NEOS, that we believe that the path proposed here does not lead to the goal. First of all, I would like to explain briefly what our goal is: Our goal is that all children, regardless of their origin, have the same opportunities in our country and that they can develop freely. This is neither guaranteed in the current system nor improved by increasing school start-up fees. That's exactly where we want to start, and we're going a different way than ÖVP's colleague, Mrs Großbauer – perhaps you have to use that too – who said that every child now has 2 000 euros available per year by increasing the family bonus. [[Abg. Sieber: She didn't say that!]] That is, of course, perfect displeasure! It is the big-bourgeois thinking of ÖVP members who believe that the family bonus actually benefits all parents. Just a simple example of the calculation: What would a single mother with two to three children deserve so that she can take advantage of the family bonus? We are talking about a gross income of 4 500 to 5 000 euros. How many people in our country make 4 500 to 5 000 euros gross in the month? That's really on the hair! But now back to school start-up fee: At the start-up fee, the access of us as NEOS is that we really create a basis for all children, and we believe it is not a goal to disburse more money, but the schools, from the folk school to the gymnasium and the middle school to any secondary school, should provide this school material. Just imagine: Children really get the material they need in school in school! That would have huge advantages. It would no longer be possible for such stigmatization, and as a threefold father I can tell you quite by the way, it would also take a little pressure from the parents because then they would not have to do single purchases per subject. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In this sense: Let us look for solutions that raise children's wings, and not solutions that only lift the government's budget out of fishing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11411	Ms MMag has now delivered an opinion. Dr.in Susanne Raabzu word reported. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11435	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We all agree that Corona was a very difficult time especially for families. We all agree that family policy means that we relieve families in our country. And yes, the start-up fee is a measure that helps to achieve this relief, but it is only one of many measures. As a family minister, let me say what is worth for us family policy and the discharge of people in our country: We have a comprehensive network of family benefits. On the one hand, we have financial family benefits, such as family allowances and the childcare allowance available to all people and families in our country. With these financial benefits alone, we are among the top three in the European Union. Secondly, there are also benefits for families such as the School Book Action. Thirdly, there are tax reliefs, which are intended to pay off specifically where people work and at the same time have children at home. That's what I'm Yeah, well, that makes sense. I do not understand that anyone can have something against the fact that those people who pay more into our system and thus guarantee that we can guarantee family benefits for all people in our country also experience a greater amount of relief. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's what the family bonus's supposed to do. It was introduced in 2019 and is a milestone in Austrian family policy. At the same time, the increase in the family bonus from 1,500 to 2,000 euros will once again relieve working parents, especially after this difficult period. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We're not blind on an eye! Of course, we see that there are families in financially difficult situations. As a women's minister, I see that there are many single-parents and single-earners, who are in a difficult financial situation and in which the double-duty is reclaimed, and that is why, of course, we have taken precautions and will increase the child's surplus from 250 to 450 euros. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Neßler.]] This means that especially those families who earn less will receive further support through the negative tax, not only the single parents and the single earners, but we have expanded the circle of references to all the employees. I believe that tax reform brings real added value to families in particular. I am convinced that the money is properly invested there, because families are, and we have seen that in the Corona crisis, the strongest unity in our state. The fact that, in the context of the tax reform, we are returning the money to families for which it is particularly needed, namely for discharge within the family, is a real and important step. As a family minister, I am very grateful for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11504	Member Joachim Schnabel has been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11529	Mr President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister, thank you for your words! They have explained comprehensively how important the families are to us in Austria, and that is what unites us all here. If we are talking about the increase in school start-up fees here, then this is only one aspect of family benefits. The increase in the family bonus plus to EUR 2 000 has already been addressed, and the amount of the child added to the low-income families is also increased to EUR 450. These are benefits for the whole year and up to the 25. Year of life, not only in the period of schooling. Another subject is also my heart – which has already been debated several times, and I would like to address it now – namely the legal right to childcare: According to Imas – especially in rural areas – communities have to offer two factors in order to be good at this in the future. A factor is a good broadband infrastructure, a digital infrastructure. On that occasion, we decided yesterday with the Telecommunications Act Important – the SPÖ is not surprisingly; it sees how important it is to them in rural areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Quality childcare is very important to us. This figure of 1.2 billion euros, which was prevented, has already been disproved several times by facts. We have provided 1.6 billion euros since 2017. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] If Mr Muchitsch says that he does not find any further measures in the budget for childcare, I must say: The extension programme for childcare will continue. Another factor is the construction of buildings and the creation of space – Mr Stark has already mentioned this today – is the following: We finance about a quarter or a third of the federal government, but the much greater obstacle to the financial sector is for the communities of the ongoing operation. Childcare for a group costs approximately 150 000 euros per year, and this goes to the limits of the municipal budgets. There is a need for negotiations to ensure the long-term operation of the municipalities in order to enable child care to be provided in rural areas as well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The biggest bottleneck, and that has already been mentioned, is the personnel area. We really need a lot of educators. Today, there is also an item on the agenda that we are setting up first steps to provide more staff to support the groups accordingly. – As it is discussed to reduce group sizes: This is important in the medium term, but you can see from the example of Vienna, where 500 special permits per year have to be granted to exceed a group size, how difficult that is. However, I also thank our Mr. Klubobmann Sebastian Kurz that five years ago he recognized with far-sightedness that the communities and the cities are the partners of child care, that there is a need for joint negotiations and common goals. This joint agreement unites us today, and this must also apply to the future so that we can offer quality childcare throughout the world.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11601	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Family and Youth, and I continue to complete the agenda. [[13:36:39]] 4. Point Report by the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth on Amendment No 1743/A(E) by Mrs Katharina Kucharovich, colleagues on the disappearance of children and adolescents with experience in fleeing (1066, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11641	We're on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Petra Wimmer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11672	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Dear Seers! People flee their home countries for a variety of reasons, and the escape always poses great dangers. It is particularly dangerous for children and young people who leave or arrive with us without reference persons. During the flight they experience inconceivable things and see the abysses of human behavior, but often their trauma is not over even after arrival in a refugee accommodation. Among the 1,350 refugees cared for, 400 unaccompanied minors and young people, all of whom are not cared for by child and youth assistance, are alone in the East Federal Services Office in Traiskirchen. Ladies and gentlemen, imagine for a moment that your child would be one of these unaccompanied children in a refugee home – alone, traumatized, in a house full of adults, who are all traumatized themselves, without a contact person who would specifically care about the needs of your child! Be honest with yourself! Think for a moment about whether or not You'd want that for your child! I don't like to imagine that for my children. The Child Welfare Commission also concludes that unaccompanied minors need special protection and support. The Commission's comprehensive report will also be discussed in the Committee shortly, and at the latest I expect you, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA and the Greens, to take the recommendations seriously and take the appropriate steps. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We take them seriously, therefore we have also agreed in committee to the §-27 proposal of the government parties, although it waters our demands once again. For good reason, we know that unaccompanied refugees should be under the care of child and youth welfare from the first day onwards. In the interests of children's rights and the Convention on Children's Rights, we also need this to enable them to live safely and protect them. 700 children have simply disappeared in Austria alone, 18 000 throughout Europe. We can't look away, that can't be indifferent to us! There are no declarations of intent, and there is a need for concrete resources and financial resources for the countries. Sit down acts, ladies and gentlemen. Apply the recommendations of the Child Welfare Commission! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11717	Mr Lukas Brandweiner is the next speaker. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11741	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Above all, however, dear spectators at home in front of the screens! For us as a People's Party, it is beyond question that we must protect and help the unaccompanied minor refugees who are in our country. We want to further improve this protection for refugee children together with our coalition partner. But what exactly is it about? – We must bring the unaccompanied minor refugees into the care of child and youth assistance as quickly as possible. This requires a training offer for the care staff and also for the procedural speakers. I am convinced that we will work together with our Minister for Family and Youth to bring together improvements. As a family party, children and young people are at heart; not only the refugees but also their own. In recent years we have proved this again under Chancellor Sebastian Kurzimmer. It has been mentioned several times: Since 2017, 1.6 billion euros have been provided for day care, the family bonus has been increased from 1,500 to 2,000 euros. [[Call at the SPÖ: But the...!]] Overall, the planned tax reform for an average family brings a relief of over 2 000 euros. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] We will continue this family-friendly path in the future, and you can rely on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11784	Next speaker is MEP Christian Lausch. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11808	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! We liberals will not agree to both, i.e. to the government proposal, but will reject it. I would like to explain this to you as follows: From our point of view, it is unexplainable that in times like this one makes such a request, since for weeks and months not only the scandals of the ÖVP, but also the situation at the borders of the Republic of Austria, which are flooded by the work of tractors in almost the same dimensions as in 2015, are reported in the media, which is why the police are already helping the German army. I'll tell you: It's not about the kids now. To my previous speaker, Mr Brandweiner: It's significant for the self-appointed – that's not really it anymore! – security party ÖVP, which is constantly allowed only the Minister of the Interior to make such a request supported by colleagues Sieber. Do you not talk to the police and soldiers about what these daily with refugees who come across the border and of those 16-year-old, 17-year-olds who already have gray hair show false papers? You already know that they are at least 25 to 30 years old or even older. The pension rate costs extremely much money and burdens the executive in Austria – but you now come with this request. We liberals are there immediately when it comes to real children – that is, until the mouth of punishment, until the 14th century. Year of life – goes. That would be a great request if we were there. But don't open the door to the tractors and thus make it difficult for the police and for the executives by coming with minor refugees! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] For God's sake, where do you live? Every third, fourth refugee is underage. The tugs know all that has system, that's all mafia organized. But now you are here with this – there must be more or less betrayal of every soldier and every police officer in this Republic. [[Abg. Shetty: Unmistakable!]] [[Abg. Stögmüller: Can you prove the claim?- Oh, my God!]] I understand the greens. It's nice again that the Greens make you the wall, I understand everything. I understand the intentions, also the intention of my colleague Kucharovich's request. But with you, who always act as the security party, the supporters of the officials, I do not understand that you support such a thing and that you do not think anything better. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Firewinner.]] You say: In the spirit of our police officers, our soldiers, who are holding their heads for us every day on the Austrian border, we are closing the door for illegality!, and then comes with such a request that almost tells the towmen: Moves refugees to Austria with illegal papers and makes them all minors! [[Abg. Brandweiner: Very creative!]] – I honestly don’t understand that, for that I lack understanding, and that goes in your direction as a self-appointed security party, which you haven’t been in a long time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11890	Mrs Barbara Neßler is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11914	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers and Seers! I've got to say, What comes from the FPÖ makes me a little speechless. I'm sorry, but you can give yourself all the time to this racist embarrassment! What You deliver here is a complete thematic error. It's not about a residence permit, it's about care. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and MEPs from ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] If you already hate, you should have at least some idea of the subject. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Because you said “real children”: Refugee children are also real children, because a child is a child. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] A child is a child who needs care that needs to be cared for – I hope the parties in Parliament agree with me for at least a long time. There are, however, children in Austria who are on their own. The colleague from the SPÖ has already mentioned this: Currently over 400 unaccompanied minors are in the first recording center in Traiskirchen, 14 of which are under 14 years old. What is the status quo? – Currently, the care of unaccompanied minor refugees in Austria is not regulated by law. This means that refugees are mostly on their own; they are among the most vulnerable groups in Austria. In such cases, children are usually transferred to child and youth assistance in Austria, but this is partly not the case in the case of refugees. In addition, it must be said that the practice varies from federal to federal; in Tyrol, for example, we have attached that to the Findelkind paragraph, which works very well, in other federal states this is not so. Unfortunately, it is sad reality that through this gap children disappear and we do not know where they are. We don't know where these children are – that's disastrous. Therefore, the Child Welfare Commission, as well as the Advisory Board of the Ministry of the Interior, has demanded that we need care from the first day. I would like to thank our coalition partner that we have been able to make this request, because special attention should be paid to child welfare in the asylum process. [[Abg. Listen, thank you!]] A comprehensive training programme is to be made for the process-leading speakers and, on the other hand, for the care staff. Ladies and gentlemen! A child is a child, regardless of whether it was born here or came to us. You have to say quite clearly: Of course you can catch it badly with us, but basically we have all drawn a lottosechser because we have come to the world in Austria and thus in a country where it is safe. [[Assembly with the Greens, with representatives of the ÖVP and the Abg. Krisper.]] I worked in a refugee home myself, and when I heard the experiences of people there, I thought: It's an insanity how much a person has to endure and how much a person can endure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] A child is a child, no matter where it came into the world, because a place of birth is not a proof of performance and must not be a judgment of fate. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] It is our human duty that we give every child here in Austria a childhood, regardless of whether it was born here or has come to us – and you can rely on our Greens to make every effort to ensure that care becomes reality from the first day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12000	Mrs Katharina Kucharovich. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12024	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Neßler raised the following point in her speech: A child is a child, and all children have the same rights. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We have long been committed to this in Austria – for a long time, thanks to the UN Convention on Children's Rights, but also, of course, under the Federal Constitutional Law on Child Rights. I say, in fact, because unfortunately this does not apply to all children in Austria. It does not apply exactly to those children who have fled to Austria. It seems that not all rights apply to these, and that is absolutely sad reality. They arrive in Austria, have an inconceivable escape experience, are traumatized, have been – it has been addressed – the most vulnerable group, faced with violence, sexual exploitation, yes, and human trafficking, including military exploitation or child labour. We cannot imagine this in Austria, but that is the reality of many children who had to get on their way to have a better life. That is why, in Austria, at last, everything must be done to ensure that all children come to these rights. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Yes, as a social democracy, we have tabled a proposal that deals with exactly that, namely, whether or not we should take care of the first day. It is inconceivable to be alone here, not to be child-friendly, not to have a reference person – that is, until the time when the asylum procedure has been terminated. I can't do that! And yes, I think it is important and good that ÖVP and Greens have received our request – but only due. Mr Neßler! Unfortunately, in your request, nothing is of concern from the first day on, you say that there should be “quick care”. But it needs them from the first day the children and young people arrive unaccompanied. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For this we are simply increasing our efforts, and for this, Mrs Federal Minister, the request is addressed to you – quite clearly more money in the countries. There is a need for more social workers in the district authorities, in the districts which are responsible for child and youth assistance. This is urgently needed, simply in the minds of the children, so that all children really come to their right, namely to their right to protection and to their right to a child-right life. I beg you You really do support this with all vehemence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12096	Mr Norbert Sieber has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12121	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! We debate two requests – one of the opposition and one of the government groups – concerning the better protection of unaccompanied refugees. My colleague Lukas Brandweiner has already done a lot about this, but, Mr Lausch, just to keep things apart: You're saying we're not talking about the children, but the application is dealing with children, so you can't easily pass over it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] You say in your speech: We are at an age limit of the criminal mouth at 14 years of age! Where's the request from you? – You know for yourself that this is nonsense, because the UN Convention on Children’s Rights says perfectly clearly: All young people, children under 18 years of age, are to be treated as children, and we can't simply turn away from it. [[Abg. Listen to me.]] [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] It is also perfectly clear to us that in this area we are also faced with abuse, and indeed, it is obvious that, in the case of justified cases where minors have a beard or grey hair, of course, we will be holding back abuse on the date of retirement, but that does not mean that we are not using the principles of the rule of law and are also trying to give children better accommodation and care here. Well, ladies and gentlemen, but also on the current debate on childcare: I have here the SPÖ request, the motion for a resolution by Mrs Rendi-Wagner and Eva Maria Holzleitner. My colleague Angela Baumgartner received a call for order because she assumed that it is not possible to read meaningfully. Mr President, I am now trying to listen with meaningfulness, perhaps that is possible. This chat protocol, which you printed in your application, reads: “We need to look after banks. The [Kern and Mitterlehner] want [...] 1.2 billion for afternoon care with legal claim and agreements federal government municipalities without countries!” – without countries. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Now read something to you from Mr Mitterer, the President of the Community, who also clearly says that the resistance to this package came not from Vienna, but from the communities, because they would not have been able to vote in this package. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] That's why I say absolutely clearly: Thank you, Sebastian Kurz, for taking the initiative here, and for working with the countries and the communities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I know, ladies and gentlemen, that the SPÖ does not have such facts and that perhaps there is an understandable scepticism to us, but let us take the “Salzburger Nachrichten”. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Call the SPÖ:Take the chat protocols!]] The “Salzburger Nachrichten” clearly writes: “Did short child care sabotage sabotage? [...] This is not to be demonstrated by facts.” – This is not to be proved by facts! Well, what do we look like? So really, it's inconceivable! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] With regard to reading – because the colleague said that you are not able to read meaningfully –: They've always talked about childcare in kindergartens. That's why it didn't happen at all! [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] It was not about small children, but about school children, that is fact, but in your anger, in your anger, you have naturally mixed it all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner]] The fact is that at the time, in a joint coalition with Minister Sonja Hammerschmid, we set out to provide 750 million euros for childcare, afternoon care. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] A claim, ladies and gentlemen, on school afternoon care is given from 15 children of course. This is right for the municipalities to vote for the school holders of the countries and that is why. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you one thing: For us as an ÖVP, the freedom of choice of the parents – the freedom of choice as they want to care for their children – is and remains an important and central asset. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer.]] It has already been said several times, I would like to repeat it again: Since 2017, 1.6 billion euros have been allocated to childcare, for example, when it comes to a full-day schoolground in accordance with 15a agreements, including those relating to elementary education. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] We have also created the family bonus, in which you know very well that the families benefit massively from it. In addition, we know that we are together – together! – over all these years – including in other government constellations – have achieved a lot for the families. Austria has a budget of over 9 billion euros available to families. [[Call the SPÖ: Not everyone!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kucharovich.]] However, it is important, and I would like to stress that in recent years, whether it was in the ÖVP-FPÖ coalition or even now in the coalition with the Greens under German Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, it has been possible to relieve families truly sustainable and powerfully – a way that we will continue in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12276	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the votes on the submissions of the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth. [[13:59:22]] Vote on agenda items 2 to 4
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12303	We shall immediately come to the vote on the reports of the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth, which I shall make separately on each item on the agenda. Before entering the voting process, I ask: Do the clubs want a break? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Proposal from the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth to take note of its report 1064 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Proposal from the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth to take note of its report 1065 of the supplements. I also ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall come to the vote on agenda item 4. Firstly, we shall come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth to take note of its report 1066 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 1743/A(E). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on the protection of unaccompanied minor refugees annexed to the Committee's report 1066 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This too is largely accepted. [[204/E]] [[14:00:54]] 5. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on Amendment 1928/A(E) by Mr Gudrun Kugler, Dr Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic, colleagues on the current situation in Afghanistan (1061 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12397	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Magnificence comes to the fore. Hannes Amesbauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12425	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing a request from the government groups on the current situation in Afghanistan, and there are a number of supportive points in this request. But there is one point that I cannot understand at all, namely: The government parties call for the further evacuation of Austrians and – and this is particularly crucial – asylum seekers, i.e. Afghan citizens with residence permits in Austria, who have made their home vacations there or whatever. I find that particularly exciting. We already had the situation that soldiers of the Austrian federal army, using their lives, have saved such people from Kabul, and they want to continue to do so. I would like to ask myself how this is especially true of the EIA, whose representatives always tell us that they want to continue to move to Afghanistan. Instead, they want to bring additional Afghans into the country. We know that we currently have around 45 000 Afghans in Austria, which is about 0.5 percent of the Austrian population. If you put this into relation, it is the highest share of the population in the whole European Union and the third highest share in the world – and you want to get extra. We also know that Afghans are particularly difficult to integrable, that there is a particularly high rate of crime and violence among Afghans. For example, the murderers of little Leonie Afghans, ladies and gentlemen, were also! I already know the arguments that Mr Lopatka and other speakers are likely to make – we have already heard that in the Human Rights Committee. That's what it says: We are legally obliged to evacuate our Austrian citizens. – Well, that may be true, but I do not see it for those entitled to asylum who you also have in your application who have a residence permit in Austria, but who are Afghan, Afghan citizens. Whoever makes a home holiday in the alleged country of refuge, despite the sharpest travel warnings of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has to stay there, ladies and gentlemen, and has lost nothing in Austria at all! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you also know that there is a legal possibility to recognise the residence title and asylum seekers' status due to such home vacations – a possibility created by the way under an Interior Minister Herbert Kicklge. As a former German chancellor, you, Mr Neo-Deputy, have always promised the strict asylum course. Now I would be interested in how you can agree to this request today, which means nothing more than that Austria is bringing additional Afghans who have abused asylum law in order to make vacations in the supposedly dangerous country of refuge to Austria. You won't make this statement. We need other solutions. We need a suspension of asylum law, we need real border protection, so that the police are no longer just a reception command, and we need non-European asylum centres. In fact, we need Herbert Kickl's 10-point programme, then we could solve the problems of asylum in Austria in the foreseeable future. I call on you, in particular the ÖVP, to: Support us with this!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12482	Now speaking, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12506	Mr Amesbauer, you can, of course, deal with the subject on a daily basis or in principle. I believe that Afghanistan is a matter of principle. But I will come back later on to your allegations, which will not vote. The basic thing is: Austria has already decided very early where the international community should focus – and that was the line of the Federal Government Sebastian Kurz, as you have rightly mentioned. The interesting thing is, there were meetings last week: The G20 met at the invitation of the Italian Prime Minister to deal with this issue, and the European Union dealt with this issue. Both come exactly to the conclusion that our basic attitude was at the beginning: We must do everything we can to strengthen the region, and we must do everything we can to make clear to the Taliban that there is no recognition, but in the interests of the people who live there, very much agreement on aid supplies. – So: Help on the ground, strengthening in the region, but none of us said that we want to welcome Afghans! That is quite clear. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Afghanistan is a problem for the State community, and Afghanistan has always been a problem for the State community. We're talking about Afghanistan, but who are the people in Afghanistan? – 38 million people live there, with a strong population growth – this is due to the oppression of women, to patriarchal society – and there are still, on average, around five children per woman. 42 percent of Afghans are Pashtunes, 29 percent are Tajiks – I have addressed the region: in Tajikistan itself, fewer Tajiks live than in Afghanistan – 9 percent Uzbek – another neighbor – and then a special group – the religion is added: the Taliban, a special expression of the Sunni, have treated a minority in their last horrendous rule – the Hasara. These are Shia and are also 9 percent of the population. What's more, 50 languages are spoken in Afghanistan. In a country where 50 languages are spoken, where so different groups of people are, it is difficult to find solutions to the structures that exist there. I was from Pakistan in the 1980s when the Soviet Union occupied Afghanistan. At that time I met the Mudahedin in her brutality, and I was also in Kabul, when now the U.S. has supported the system. Both times I noticed: It's both been considered a crew. Therefore: With all the billions that have been invested, we have not gone to the civilian population. If you spend millions on buildings, even for schools, but you don't provide anything for local teachers, you won't reach the hearts of people. You just have to say that. What is the big problem in this country now? – The Taliban have promised one thing: They will bring stability, and the people in Afghanistan have longed for this stability. Unfortunately, they have not achieved this – I am talking about the people who live there, if I am unfortunately saying so – because almost their fellow believers, who do not belong to the Taliban, but who want a greater solution, want a great caliphate, continue to practice terrorist attacks. Only last week 50 people died again in Kundus. In other words, the Taliban, according to their Islamic beliefs, only want to rule Afghanistan; other Muslims want a greater solution there within the framework of a caliphate, an Islamic state in which Afghanistan would only be a province. That is to say, there are these massive conflicts in the country, and there is a massive economic crisis. Afghanistan has always needed support. What we have to do – that is what the G20 has defined, that is also defined by the European Union – is help for people with a plus: We have to ask for something! We can do that. We need to apply the Taliban standards, because they can't watch people starve. The UN has calculated that over the next year, 90 percent of Afghans – 90 percent! – will live in absolute poverty and cannot even meet the most necessary needs. 90 percent of the population! That's a disaster. I therefore follow the UN Secretary-General, who says: If we do not help on site, we will pay a high price, because then people will have to come to us in search of a better life, for each of us has a strong urge to survive, thank God. Therefore, the positioning of the Austrian Federal Government is absolutely correct: On-the-spot assistance, stabilisation in the region, but not – as has been falsely claimed by colleagues Amesbauer – now almost give the invitation that Afghans should come to us. That is not what the European Union is doing either. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Read the application!]] – Read the conclusions of the G20! You can't find that either. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] In addition, Austrian Members also make a contribution. We are the next weekend in Uzbekistan – and I would like to close it – to observe the elections there, also the next speaker from your group, Mr Amesbauer, is with us, and Mr Deer. [[Abg. Amesbauer: This has nothing to do with it!]] I'm allowed to conduct this election observation. To get it to the point: The Uzbeks, the Tajiks, the Kyrgyz, the neighbours can do much more than we can do from Europe. They know the mentality, they know what is necessary to reach a semi-peaceable solution in order to achieve a stabilisation there. That's the right way. [[Abg. Amesbauer:... nothing lost there at all!]] Let's not worry about the Austrians anymore!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12593	Next speaker is MMMag. Dr. Axel Kassinger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12617	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Lopatka has now presented very impressively and has shown that the ÖVP also has a credibility problem in this area. What you just formulated is not credible. If you say, We have never said that we are taking up other Afghans, then this contradicts the text in the request, the They will agree – I assume – that we will work to ensure that “more [...] the evacuation of the remaining Austrian and Afghan nationals with a valid residence permit will take place in Austria”. That therefore contradicts, but it is typical and significant for the fundamental problem of credibility which not only you, Mr Lopatka, have, but also the new colleague here in the National Council, who has closed the Balkan route – which is also not true! – or Mr Nehammer, Minister of the Interior, who says: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic]] [[towards Abg. Briefly looking]] Yes, of course, the deportations take place as had been!, and on demand, how many that must admit then: zero. So this is a completely confusing claim. Your behaviour as an Austrian People's Party at European level, too, when it comes to agreeing naturally to the new EU Migration Pact, which essentially only provides for a process-organisational distribution of migrants in Europe, does not lead to a solution, especially in the interests of the Austrians. When you look at the history of Afghanistan, you can see that interventions there have always been - fluffily formulated - hardest in the pants. If you put it a little more seriously, they have always led to hundreds of thousands of dead, especially civilians, to total disaster and chaos, as did the intervention of the United States in 2001, which then culminated in the continuation of the doctrine of George W. Bush, who said: We will achieve a domino effect by, starting with Afghanistan, teaching the world our principles of democracy, human rights and freedom, so to speak, and if they are not allowed to put it on the eye, then we use violence. This is American access, which ends every time in the disaster, and the Europeans are driving along, of course, the European Nato partners – but Austria is not. That's what I'm responsible for. What is the responsibility for this chaos and then the obligation to do something to eliminate this chaos? – I do not see this responsibility in Austria. We're not a war-leading nation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: That's none of our business!]] [[Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic: Very well!]] The responsibility lies first and foremost with the Americans and secondly with the NATO countries involved in the war. If one wants to relax a little further, it may also be with Russia as the successor state of the Soviet Union, because they suffered similar things in the 1990s than they believed they could solve any problems through military intervention. So the responsibility is not with us. Mr Amesbauer has already mentioned it: We have already received 44 000 people from Afghanistan. This is enough to be fulfilled, because, unlike the United States, which has taken up a fraction of it, which has 40 times more inhabitants than we, which are a hundred times larger than we are, have already made our contribution to God. You must not forget: That'll cost you money. That costs hundreds of millions of euros. We have already heard at the budget meeting today, in particular from FPÖ speakers, that on the one hand, this draft budget is not the yellow of the egg, nor the tax reform, and that on the other hand, people in our own country will face a not only threatening, but already in use, cost avalanches that will be much, much stronger in winter. That is, many people in Austria are really not doing well and they will be much worse over the winter. The Freedom Party is the only one who sets the right priorities – it is about the issue of priorities and also about having the right proportionality in mind – and which is credible. I accept that quite well and it is absolutely fine if the Greens and the SPÖ have other access, see other solutions and say that we should accept as many Afghans as possible. This is the great thing in a pluralist democracy that is allowed to have different opinions. But what I have a problem with – now the circle closes – is the Austrian People's Party and its credibility on this issue. I've already said it: My colleague, Mr Lopatka, what you have formulated here is a little plausible. Also the closing or even not closing of the Balkan route is not credible. The number of deportations of zero are not credible. In Austria it says: Yes, we will be strongly opposed to the Migration Pact, and at the same time there is agreement at European level – all this is not credible. I think that is the point. It is not about the SPÖ or the Greens, it is about the FPÖ, which sets the right priorities in this area, which looks at proportionality and is credible, and it is about the ÖVP that does not have all these three things.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12682	At the word of word, Dr. Harald Türk. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12706	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Afghanistan: People hide, people hide from fear of death, women hide in barns, cellars, at the attic. The women who hide there are those who fear, above all, the revenge of the Taliban, judges – there are at least 300 judges in that country – journalists who have critically reported on the Taliban, and human rights activists in Afghanistan. At the height of the crisis, SPÖ called for the Council to convene on issues of Austrian integration and foreign policy. The Foreign Minister has also complied with this. In particular, our request has been concerned with the establishment of protection zones, but also with securing escape routes from Afghanistan. In the Committee on Human Rights, we have tabled this proposal again by the SPÖ, unfortunately it has not been approved by the government for plenary. I think this is a censorship. If the subject of Afghanistan is already on the agenda, then put off the SPÖ proposal, so to delay, but to be quick to base on a turquoise-green counter-approach, so that you do something, I do not think it is serious. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] I don't think that's a good parliamentary practice either – we don't need to talk about pluralism. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Krisper.]] For years the accusation was that only men came from Afghanistan, and by the colleagues of the FPÖ has been said over and over again: the Afghans. Now it's primarily about women and girls, it's about Afghans, about this vulnerable group, about women who have death fears, and there it should be called like on a disaster ship: Women and children first! The fact that the ÖVP has no heart for children has been repeatedly proved. The ÖVP is not the family party for which it spends itself. We've heard for years: No children from abroad! As far as Moria is concerned, the ÖVP or the government, with the help of the Greens, has also made more of a mourning game. Now that you can help women and girls specifically, the same leader: Help on the spot, that calming game that comes back again and again. But nothing goes on. In Moria there are still refugees in dirt, in dirt, in the cold, nothing has happened! Of course, there is also great disappointment in Afghanistan about the international community. The failure of the Americans is really incredible, even as the people were abandoned. The Minister for Education in Afghanistan, Haqqani, says only that the co-ordination is incompatible with Islam. In this separation of women and men in Afghanistan, only women are the sufferers: They should stay at home as long as their safety is not guaranteed. This is the Taliban cynicism, and there we have to do something! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12760	Dr.in Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12785	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have now considered what to do, but it would be a pity for my speaking time. Just maybe one in the direction of FPÖ: You do not want to help refugees in Europe, you do not want to help on the ground, you speak out against all measures, and I have never heard of you as a solution-oriented approach, what it really took to face these global challenges together. [[Abg. Kassinger: Then you didn't listen!]] But it doesn't matter, it's always the same mix: a bit of populism, a bit of racist polemics, a little resistance to any facts; and that seems to be your electorate, who is enough. On the subject of coordination, which also indicates our political capacity to act: One and a half months ago – that's gonna be You know – leaving Afghanistan's last American aircraft, and yes, the attempt to build peace, stability or otherwise some kind of democracy, if you want to, has not only failed, but has never been the goal. The Americans themselves say that it has never really been the goal. What we know is that Afghanistan has been in free circulation since then. This is a security challenge, as is one for women's rights, human rights, but above all a humanitarian disaster. I don't like to repeat the numbers anymore, they're terrifying. Already – Mr Lopatka has already said that – 90 percent of the population there are affected without support of poverty, do not even have the opportunity to satisfy the basic needs, and Afghanistan's economy has simply collapsed. And yes, Guterres is right: If we don't do anything, people are clearly on their way, because without perspective, without the prospect of education, people are naturally looking for perspectives. If they do not find them in their own country, they will try it as refugees in the immediate vicinity or just continue on their way towards Europe. We have now seen at different levels what we can do, what we can do internationally, what we can do in Europe, what we can do nationally. What is in this proposal is quite, very important, namely – na no na ned! –: Austria must continue to evacuate people who have a right to stay in Austria or citizenship. Little surprising! The second is a consistent, coordinated approach to the Taliban at an operational level, especially when it comes to distributing the supplies. Without that, it won't work. Furthermore, a coordinated coordination with our international and European partners as well as with multilateral bodies to see how we can stabilise the country. This is really about stabilisation in the first step. In order not to continue to address these many essential things, perhaps one that is very important to me when we are already talking about Afghanistan, and because you, Mrs Frauenminister, are here today in this debate: Mr Faika El-Nagashi and I have recently visited a group of girls here, i.e. young Afghans, because we simply wanted to know about them how they conducted the debate in the country, but also, of course, how they feel about the developments in their country of origin, in their original homeland. This was very touching when these girls were barely able to speak. It's called the so-called clouse in the neck. The tears ran over their faces, and they were unable to speak. Why not? – The situation on the ground is dramatic, which is one of the reasons. The second reason we can change something, however, is that our discourse on Afghans and Afghans in Austria is reduced to criminal cases. We do not see all Afghans and Afghans as a community that is considered here, especially in such a situation, but we reduce them to individuals. That is why my plea away from the foreign policy component to you, Mrs Federal Minister: Take care of such meetings too! Talk to the Afghan community! They're wonderful people living here. This is about our future – you say yourself, especially girls are the future – and we should maintain it and not permanently criminalize it. That would be my domestic policy request at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12825	Mrs. Dr.in Stephanie Krisper has been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12850	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen at home! We voted in favour of this request by the government parties because it is impossible to say anything about it because it is insignificant. The colleague of the Greens also meant that the content was "na no na ned". It is therefore insignificant and the result of a lukewarm compromise because it is devoted to a subject in which the images and the human image of Turquoise and Green are very different. The application begins with empathy, with reference to decades of armed conflict, to recurring natural disasters and the conclusion: “Nearly half of the Afghan population is dependent on humanitarian aid, each third Afghan does not know where his next meal is to come from.” – It turns out that the ÖVP is also aware that we are talking about people who have earned help from the Austrian Federal Government, especially the women. For the reason: ‘Equal access to essential life-saving measures is to be ensured’. – I can only say: What a happiness for women in Afghanistan who can no longer go to college and are being whipped out on the streets, that we here in Austria put a focus on the support of women and girls and therefore we are committed to spending the money so that as many women as men survive. – The UNHCR can do that by itself, and it does not need the ÖVP and not the Greens! Until then, however, one of the texts believes: One sees the suffering of the neighbor, colleague Kugler, women and children as people, even though they are Afghan citizens. Why not be sure, as a turquoise-green government, that a single child, saving a single woman from this country through EU restitution, will a few women and children not starve that women are not being whipped? – You are not so constructive in Europe! So many people are not the Afghan women and children again, not enough people to be brought to safety through legal rites, a few to Austria! And with the human being, with the dignity of man, it is then quite complete, the closer they come. Then they become depersonalized, becoming a dangerous wave. If they can find themselves on the Western Bar Route, you can also hit them, let mumble them over the border again. – The request is silent. After all, wait! – didn't someone vote for the new People's Party because he meant to have closed the Western Balkans route? Or was it only short-sighted, one of the many populist PR-gags at the right time, fraud – even there – on the voters? Or do you only know how to help yourself with barbaric beatings, because you have to act like the route is closed? And yes: Austria joins the illegal pushbacks. I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior today whether laws should not be complied with, the Convention on Human Rights, Article 8, Article 3 of the ECHR. For those who don't care: Testimonies of Control? - No, I don't. Mr Kurz's policy and the policy of the Minister of the Interior brings chaos and suffering. Türkis-Green, according to the text of the resolution, wants the government to continue its efforts to respect human rights – that is, not a blow by the Taliban, please. But How credible are we when the EU borders are hit? – The request is silent. We have tabled a request that the EU's Fundamental Rights Agency should look at this situation so that we can discuss it honestly here. At European borders, we can respect the human dignity of refugees in order to be able to look at us in the mirror, and enforce control by registering, in constructive European cooperation between Member States, to divide, to negotiate, to integrate or to suspend procedures – but not with Turquoise and not with green.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12907	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Gudrun Kugler. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12931	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again it shows that the best way is the middle. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Zarits.]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] Following this debate, it is noted that the path of the middle is the only right one. I will now deal with some of what has been said here and I will be able to start with the FPÖ. So colleagues Amesbauer and Kassager say that the ÖVP wants to bring in additional Afghans. – Dear colleagues, the Afghans with residence permit are already included with us. [[Abg. Amesbauer: But they want...!]] Their cases are individually tested and that we help them understand themselves. I also tell you why: because we are here on the ground of the rule of law. Yes, it is possible that someone who has a residence permit in Austria due to the asylum regulations and then goes to the country of origin loses this residence permit, but that does not decide the FPÖ that says: Everyone away, but that's what the authorities decide, and that's what they call rule of law. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Dear FPÖ, we don't care about people. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Neither do we, the Austrians! You want...!]] When we increased the funds for the foreign disaster fund, you voted against. People starve, people are cold. It is important for us not to forget the humanitarian situation. [[Abg. Kassinger: All over the world, only not in Austria, that is important to you! But at least...!]] Now a thought about Mr. Door's speech: First of all, I would like to thank you, Mr Commissioner, for your initiative. I think this is important and I support it. I would, however, like to explain why we do not treat your request equally here. The application contains several problems: Firstly, he gives a lot of space to a rejected SPÖ proposal, which has not already been implemented elsewhere. Secondly, there are things that are already obsolete, such as a UN security zone in Kabul or a regional security conference in accordance with the OSCE model. That's not going to be discussed at all. And thirdly, he calls for the financial assistance we are already giving. On the other hand, we have a proposal that goes much deeper and that is also much more up-to-date. Now to the NEOS, to what Mr Krisper said: Mrs Colleague, no one at the G20 summit, we have just heard, voted for recordings, and that has good reasons: There are 3.5 million refugees in Afghanistan, internally displaced people. Now, if we start choosing a few, that's arbitrary, and that's also uneven, and with all the money we'd use for it, we can help so many more people there. [[Abg. Krisper: EU Resettlement Programme!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Another thing: You have spoken impressively of what it means to be human, and what it means to be a woman. It is good that you address this, because the same question is what it means to be a human being, and what it means to be a woman, we can also ask ourselves in relation to Afghans in Vienna. In Vienna the NEOS are in the government, and there you have to do much more because we know how difficult it is in questions of integration in Vienna. [[Abg. Krisper: Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] The AMS says that according to competence check, 25 percent of Afghans are illiterate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krisper.]] You'd have to do more. We know that women in the fields of work and education are found on average that more than half of Afghans in Austria say violence is a way of defending honor and so on. So if NEOS is concerned about humanity and being a woman, please start in Vienna! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Amesbauer and Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff.]] In summary, I can only say: Thank you for the broad support of our request. It is about stabilising the region, it is about respecting the conditions of the European Union, which, my dear Mrs Krisper, are very likely to bring about, because this is about the protection of human rights and the protection and integration of women and girls, and about humanitarian aid. It is about hunger and cold that prevail on the ground. And Austria – this is a good news I want to end my speech with – is at the Donor Club of UNHCR for the first time because we give so much and so much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13073	Mag.a. Selma Yildirim. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13098	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! [[The speaker put a box entitled “We Choose Humanity” on the speaker’s desk.]] “We choose humanity”. . As a Socialist Group, we will vote in favour of the government's proposal because we believe that Austria also has international responsibility and that there are very many human voices in that country. [[The speaker takes the lid with the title “643 suffrage in this election session”, “3.759 signatures for the online petition”, “4.402 votes” from the box and presents it to the speaker panel.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Apart from the fact that on-site assistance is of course important: Especially for women who were often quoted today, for all those who actually wanted to establish and strengthen Western systems and values there, for these women it has found a fatal outcome by being abandoned. With the withdrawal of the U.S. troops and this uncoordinated, in fact hardly performed evacuation, many, many women have been disappointed; their fates have been sufficiently described. Whenever this issue – people on the run, politically persecuted – is the subject, I would like to keep the populist announcement to the ÖVP, especially – for four years – that there are really very, very many good examples in this country. As I see you, Mr Kurz: In the time when you were still German Chancellors, I was asked by initiatives and initiators from Innsbruck, still in the good faith, you could raise your voice once for humanity, Bring you something: I was given about 4,500 votes for you. However, I have never had the opportunity to give it to you, and I am not sure if it makes sense to give it to you today, to trust you in these voices for humanity from Innsbruck, which have been collected only by a short-term initiative. I just want to say: There are so many good examples, such as the case of the young Afghan boy, who successfully makes his education in a social school in Stams, is perfectly integrated and unspoiled and can be trained in a disability profession. I mention the case of Reshad, but there are a lot of women and men who can be trained as nurses, who also perform excellent trainings in food shortages in the gastronomy, and these people are in front of the deportation. No one understands this, not only from a national economic point of view, but also from a human point of view. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would simply like to emphasize: There are so many initiatives from my native Tyrol, many other initiatives in this country, and that is my plea! That is why we will agree to this government proposal because we believe in the many voices of humanity. And forgive me, Mr President, neither do I now give you these votes, nor does Mr Altbundeskanzler Kurz. I'll try my luck at the new Federal Chancellor. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13164	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? That is not the case, as I see it. Before we enter the voting process: Do the clubs want a break? - That's not the case either. We shall now proceed to the vote on item 5 of the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1061 on 'the current situation in Afghanistan'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. [[205/E]] [[14:41:31]] 6. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (1042, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Basic Law amending the Federal Law on the Principles of the Technical Requirements for Child-Gardeners (1074 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13216	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs MMag came to speak. Dr. Agnes Totter. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13244	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators in front of the screens! Not for school, but for life we learn. – Seneca once criticised the Roman philosopheric schools, but with the reverse saying: Not for life, but for school we learn. Mein Ladies and gentlemen! Non scholae, sed vitae discimus, is more up-to-date today than ever. Schools and education in our schools must serve the trainees and not vice versa. Education starts very early, in the family, but also in the kindergarten and not only in the upper level, as some believe. Kindergartenen and folk schools represent the first educational institutions in the life of a child. There, early in childhood, important foundations for a successful and fulfilled life are laid. As director of a secondary school, I am always amazed, just like my teachers, at how much knowledge and the skills of the ten-year-old children come to us at secondary school after visiting the kindergarten and the folk school. I would like to thank you very much for this great work of the educators at this point. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] By the way, Mr Baumgartner is right: You actually learn to read meaningfully in folk school. The profession of a teacher and a educator is indeed a very challenging activity, but also the most beautiful profession I know. Unfortunately, we lack valuable staff in the field of elementary education as well as in the public schools. Therefore, we must do everything we can to ensure that young people take up and practice this profession. This fact has led us and our Federal Minister, Mr Fässmann, to present this law, with which we develop training opportunities in the field of elementary education. A new degree will be added to the previous qualifications for elementary pedagogical education. The higher education course Elementary pedagogy in the range of 60 ECTS at the pedagogical universities serves as a cross-border entry into the professional field of elementary pedagogy. This higher education course allows professionally trained persons to become group-leading elementary teachers. A new degree will also be added to the previous training diplomas for including elementary pedagogical education. I am particularly pleased that a colleague for elementary pedagogy has been offered in my district in the southeastern Styria since the start of the school. This contributes to the fact that in our rural region, where there is a great need, people can be trained for this wonderful profession. – Thank you very much, Minister Fässmann! [[I should like to congratulate Mr Hamann and Mr Maurer on his work.]] However, I would also like to thank Minister Kocher, who has made it possible to include elementary education in the list of eligible training in the framework of the professional scholarship in the labour market service. Interested persons can thus be encouraged to move into elementary pedagogy. This is a right and important measure. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Hamann and Mr Maurer on his work.]] This law also adapts the name of the professional group operating in elementary educational institutions. The name of the educational institutions for kindergarten education in educational institutions for elementary education also defines the concept for this professional group in a uniform manner: In future, kindergartens are referred to as elementary pedagogists. In any event, the adaptation of the professional name corresponds to the spirit of time, and with the new training opportunities, the elementary pedagogical professions are further attracted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13319	Mrs Petra (ED). — Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Petra for his excellent report. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13343	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators in front of the screens! This government template is to be welcomed in principle, because the novelle offers cross-border beginners who have professional training the opportunity to take up this profession, and it is a way to counteract the lack of personnel in this profession. However, it must not remain the only measure. Rather, working conditions need to be improved, a comprehensive concept for the framework conditions, for uniform framework conditions, and salaries must be increased, for elementary teachers are as educators as those in the public school, in the middle school or in the AHS. The group sizes are reduced. It is also important not to forget the practical part of training. These are all measures that would make this profession more attractive as a whole and perhaps also lead more men to practice it. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the Deputies Maurer and Künsberg Sarre.]] This professional group was in the pandemic system-relevant, and they have been forgotten. Thousands have demonstrated on Tuesday and today. You've got enough. For 30 years nothing has changed. It's really time to look at it. The shortcomings that have already existed have now come to the surface massively, and it has been seen – but nothing is planned for improvements in the budget. There is indeed much to do. If, yesterday, there was a request from Mr Hamann and Mr Tashner, who asked the Federal Minister to look at the 15a agreements and, and then, although this is nice and nice, if nothing is foreseen in the budget, the Federal Minister will not be able to do anything for it. Let me return to the 1.2 billion euros that have been in the mouth since 2016 for the expansion of all day schools and childcare. This was approved as a project, but was then punched for your own needs, torpeded and turned off. And Mrs Großbauer, only for information: It was not a compulsory all-day school at the time, but the right to a full-day schoolground was provided. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since 2017, thousands of families, children and, above all, women could have opportunities for a better life, for better education, especially women who could have a full-time job instead of a part-time job and thus could have paid their pension contributions differently. The great losers of such a policy are the children and the women, especially the single parents were the great losers in the last four to five years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me tell you why I know so well. I can tell you that because I was alone at the time. I wanted a full-day place, but I didn't get one and had to give my son to a private school. [[Abg. Straster: You live in a SPÖ community, don't you?]] That cost a lot of money I didn't have at the time. Thanks to my parents who co-financed me, it was possible. The public school has not been expanded. [[Abg. Strasser: SPÖ-gemeinde, Mrs Colleague?]] I'm also one of those, so I know what I'm talking about. [[Abg. Strasser: I think so!]] That was not a SPÖ community, no, it was an ÖVP community, and that for many years. The applications submitted yesterday by the opposition parties in order to improve them have been rejected. So you don't even have the will to change something. If you had a spark, you would fix it, because this 3.1 percent increase for the education system, which is shown in the budget, mainly includes the adjustments of salaries – the normal salary increases – and the corona tests that are inside. Minister of Finance Blümel said yesterday in the ‘ZIB 2’: The pandemic is over, and therefore there is no money for the education system and for the children. – This is very interesting, please tell the children and young people! This is a bad joke, because the children, young people and schools are left alone with their challenges. There is no additional support for children with mental problems, there is no more money for schools facing special challenges, there are no more staff for those folk schools that need it. This will certainly have an economic impact in the coming years, because the worst thing you can do is not invest in education. Trust and credibility are gone. They are not a family party, with all respect, and the decision to prevent these investments that were taken in 2016 is morally not okay. Finally, I speak here for many thousands who would probably have liked to say this in my place: Shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13427	The next speaker was Mr Hermann Brückl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13449	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to present a brief situation report on the staff situation in our education system – in the school system, in the elementary area, in the kindergartens. It was described very aptly by an Upper Austrian daily, which was titled before the summer holidays: ‘Eclatant teacher shortage [...]: Schools save themselves with special contracts”. – The schools rescue themselves with overtime, they save themselves with increases in teaching obligations, they save themselves by drawing students for teaching, or also with retired teachers who have to jump in. But not only in schools we have this staff problem, but also in the elementary area we have problems, with the result that only a few days ago in Vienna 5 000 people demonstrated before the Votivkirche. They have come to the so-called kindergarten demo, also with demands for more staff and for smaller groups. What's the government doing? . She is here presenting us with a draft law on decision-making, against which, in principle, nothing speaks against – we liberals will agree to this bill – but the current totally unsatisfactory situation, Mr. Federal Minister, will not resolve. So it's going to go on that way. On the one hand, it is good to create cross-border access opportunities to facilitate professional change – this should in principle be possible in schools as well. But what does the government not do, or what should the government do? One of the main areas of problem in this area is that, although we are looking at the higher level of vocational training, Schools for elementary education have sufficient graduates, many graduates have, but only a few of them actually become active in this field after the Matura. It is very easy to take up working conditions, to change the means of merit. Working conditions and earnings vary depending on the federal state, I think that there is a basic need for a uniform system which is consistent throughout the federal territory. There is a need to attract the means of remuneration and reward, and this attraction must also be created for men in order for more men in this profession to come into this division. To the institutions of early childhood education: In addition to the family, our kindergartens are a very important pillar of our education system. The childcare facilities are a habitat for our children, in which they are to find an environment in addition to the family that will provide them with the best possible development opportunities and the best opportunities. One more point, Minister of State, to the conclusion: I think it would also be a task to encourage and support private initiatives in a massive way. The expansion of farm kindergartens offers many advantages for both employers and employees. To give an example: Due to the working hours that can be adapted accordingly, the compatibility of family and work – and this is especially true of mothers – would be better, it would also be a higher quality of life. The House, this draft law, which offers new possibilities for cross-border entry, will be approved by us. But that can't be the end, there must be more to come, there must be more to follow, because our children must finally be worth it to us.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13500	Mrs Hamann, you know that we are beginning the urgent question at 3 p.m. 3 minutes – this is likely to be a point landing. [[Abg. Hamann: Then I have to talk faster!]] Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13532	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Yes, the elementary pedagogues and elementary pedagogists have remembered themselves outside the street today – and that is good. I would like to thank them not only for their work, but also for their protest, because he reminds us again and again of the importance of their profession, and that without what they do every day, everything would collapse, including our economy. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the Greens]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kucharovich]] I also understand very well that many of them burn out under current working conditions. What we all need is absolutely clear: more time, including for preparation and reflection, for conversations, smaller groups, less stress, better payment and, in any case, uniform standards throughout Austria. [[New call of the abg. Kucharovich.]] Much of what I have now listed is actually all, at the moment competence of the countries, also of Vienna – what colleague Fürderwinkler mentioned earlier. That we all agree that we have to change something there is wonderful. I would point out that in the course of the 15a negotiations, which are taking place now, we are all moving from all sides so that something material can come out as well. [[Mr Kollross and Mr Frührwinkler.]] The federal government is responsible only for one: for training. The problem is known that many of the people we train do not stay in the profession. We have launched a training campaign, I recall the five new college locations, and also – Mr Totter has already mentioned this – we have the possibility of professional scholarships to finance the time of training. I would like to use the opportunity for an appeal: Do this, take advantage of the opportunity to do this training! There is an urgent need for people with different backgrounds in elementary education. It can be a demanding but also a very exciting and beautiful profession. A few words about the bill: Part of this training campaign, which we have started, is tertiaryization, i.e. training also at academic level. There is now this new PH course for cross-border beginners who do not come out of the Bafeps, and these are given professional right thanks to this bill. Also new is the course for inclusive elementary pedagogy, which travels from the Bafeps to the PHs, which of course also goes with an upgrade. And because language always creates awareness, the renaming of the name KindergartennerIn, which will be replaced everywhere by the word Elementary Education or Elementary Education, was urgently necessary – like so many things that need to continue in this area. I can promise you: We'll stay on it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13601	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, before I interrupt the negotiations, I can tell you that Mr Vice-Chancellor is a minimum late due to a traffic problem. Should he not yet be there in my introductory words, I will interrupt the sitting briefly so that he can take part in the debate and also hear what you have to say. I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 6 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13625	I interrupt the meeting until Mr Vice-Chancellor arrives.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13661	I should like to start the meeting again and warmly welcome Mr Vice-Chancellor. [[15:02:18]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues in the Federal Chancellor’s office on “Close with Schredders – Enlightenment instead of Destruction, Mr Bundeskanzler!” (8234/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13699	We arrive at urgent procedure for the written question 8234/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13862	I should like to ask honourable Member Krainer as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes, give the floor. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13884	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we have put in a urgent question regarding “Close with Schredders – Enlightenment instead of File destruction, Federal Chancellor!” The Federal Chancellor is in Brussels and is represented by Mr. Vice-Chancellor. - Thank you for taking over. Why this is urgent, you can explain relatively simply: We had the Ibiza Examining Committee, and if an investigative committee is to control government action, then the Examining Committee of course wants to have the communication and also the calendar of the Minister, of Cabinet Staff, of Cabinet Workers, so that one can see how they have influenced the business of its department. When we asked for this, we got the answer from all the EIA Ministers: We've deleted everything! There is no calendar that is deleted, there are no emails that are all deleted! All the cabinet staff have deleted everything. We then went a detour and requested the communication of officials of the House with ministers or with staff of the Minister or the Minister. Although we had to go to the Constitutional Court because we didn't want to figure it out, we had to be delivered in the end, both from the Ministry of Finance and from the Federal Chancellor's Office. At the Ministry of Finance, the Federal President had to ensure delivery. At the Federal Chancellor's Office, the example of the finance minister Blümel was apparently dissuasive enough that it delivered itself, and there we had very, very many hits. For example, the Federal Chancellor said that his calendar was deleted, he didn't have it at all. But then we got parts of his calendar because they were stored in electronic files and e-mails from other officials of the house. We have received a number of communications between cabinet staff and officials from which we have been able to read out the influence and consultation of the ÖVP-led resorts with Novomatic regarding casinos and the like. For this reason, it is so important that there are these e-mails, files and documents, because if we have ministers, Federal Chancellors, cabinets that do nothing but scrape and delete all their documents, we are still getting through detours to important communication that we need so that an investigation committee can do its work. For several days now, we have been given evidence for over a week that in several ministries – in the Ministry of Finance, in the Ministry of the Interior – and in the Federal Chancellery, major scrapping actions are being prepared. Yesterday late at night we got the first proof that exactly that is being prepared, that is exactly what is planned, in the Federal Chancellery. The schedule for this is also extremely interesting: ==References== On October, officials from the Ministry of the Interior will be informed about the upcoming house searches at the ÖVP, the Federal Chancellery et cetera, and on the same day, the mandate of the Secretary-General – to which I will come later – will appear that this deletion action will be prepared. On the same day, an e-mail will be sent to the staff representatives of the house to inform them that this deletion action is being prepared. There is also a date for the day of great deletion, namely the 10. November. So far, it was in the Federal Chancellery that all the e-mails, all the calendar entries from all the employees of the house were in a kind of electronic safe. After a year they came to this safe. Every employee had the key, could always look at his emails, his calendar entries and so on, look for what he needed, and, of course, delete things that he no longer needs at any time. Now this is to be reversed, now everything that is over a year old is to be automatically deleted. ==References== November is supposed to take place this great erasure almost, and only what is manually put into security would then remain at all. This order comes from a certain Bernd Brno. Bernd Brno is not someone who knows everyone very well. I hope the former Chancellor Kurz knows him, because he just said he didn't know his press speaker too well. Here we have the team of the Ballhausplatz project, which are the employees of the Ballhausplatz project: in the middle of course the former German Chancellor Kurz, Stefan Steiner, for example, who is led as an accused person, as well as Gerald Fleischmann – Mr. Kurz is also led in several proceedings as an accused person – and Mr. Bernd Brno, who was responsible for removing all non-Turkish section heads and department heads as quickly as possible in the Ballhausplatz project – when the Federal Chancellor's office was taken over. [[keeping a table with photos of Sebastian Short and other people in height and according to the series on the respective photos]] That was his job. Bernd Brno was also the first chief of the cabinet of Mr. Kurz as Federal Chancellor and has since been appointed Secretary General – and he has given this commission. He gave this order for great deletion at a time when Mr Kurz was still in office. [[Abg. Strasser: Very transparent!]] There comes from the right hand of the Chancellor to all officials, to all officials of the House of the Order – the last time the investigation committee has received material, that is not a second time –: We'll be on 10. Delete all of November, delete everything that is not manually secured! – This is the order that is to happen, which the right hand of the former Federal Chancellor has given short. I say: That must not be allowed to happen to a Parliament. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] I just can't do that. For a few weeks now, all who want to know it have been known that a new investigative committee is coming, starting where the Ibiza Investigation Committee has stopped. He was turned off by the ÖVP because of great success, and that's why a new one is coming. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gahr.]] We know this is all a delay in time. We know that the files and documents had to be returned from Parliament to the ministries. At the time, because it was suggested that nothing would be deleted, nothing would be scrutinized, we made an application in which the Federal Government was explicitly asked to archive these files and documents and not to scrape, not to delete them. Unfortunately, this was rejected by a majority here in the house. We see it begins the great deletion and the great scrapping, and we now have proof of it for the first time. We are excited if we do not get further evidence that this is not only the case in the Federal Chancellery, but also in the Ministry of Finance and in other ministries, or perhaps has already been practised. We're certainly not going to let go. The Committee of Inquiry has not yet been set up, but it has only been introduced. There is still a need for discussion in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and for a further plenary session. We all know: The next plenary session was held on 17 November. November, so a week after the day of great deletion. This is the earliest possible time when it is used, and only when it is used will the deletion become a problem for the government. That's why they can get out on devils. Once the Committee of Inquiry has been set up, they shall no longer be allowed to do so. Now I hear that the EIA and the Greens are bringing in a motion for a resolution to reject this great deletion. That's what we hear. I have already received a copy, and I must draw your attention to it: [[keeping a copy in height]] This motion for a resolution does not solve the problem. I can explain why. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: “The Federal Government is invited”. – The Federal Government is a collegial body. It can, for example, decide on Council of Ministers protocols, but not on the procedure in individual departments. If at all, the Federal Ministers or all Federal Ministers should stand, because they must enforce it in their own sphere of activity. It also states: You are ‘restrained to at least ensure that the exercise of parliamentary control rights, such as in particular the last committee of inquiry,’ – – what is the last investigating committee? – The Ibiza Investigation Committee. This is the last investigation committee to be set up. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Blimlinger and Mr Maurer.]] – I tell you: The last investigation committee to be set up is not the ÖVP Corruption Committee. He's brought in, he's required, but he's not used. He can only be used in the next plenary session, on 17 November. November. That is to say, the wording with the “last investigation committee” refers to the Ibiza Investigation Committee and not the ÖVP Corruption Committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] In addition, it is only “in the Federal Chancellery” that the “provisional automated deletion” of all files, calendar entries and e-mails, “that are older than 365 days”, is to be “restrained”. You don't even write down until when. For two days, for four days? I know you do not think so, but if you take this resolution seriously and seriously, you must also write down how long it should be. For the duration of the Committee? I don't know, but you have to write down until when, otherwise it's gonna be exposed for two days. The application is addressed to the wrong person, it is called the wrong investigation committee because the ÖVP corruption committee is not yet in use and it has to be clearly stated how long the suspension takes. [[Abg. Maurer: Mimimimi!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller]] It is very funny, Mrs Maurer, that you are now saying “Mimimimimi”. It's not a mimimimi, because it's about a control right of this house. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] Once before, there were greens to whom this right of control was sacred. I know that's not holy to you. I know how you deal with it, personally. You should really save yourself such calls. [[Abg. Wöginger: And you so urgent!]] [[Abg. Straster: Such fantasy constructions!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I'll say one more thing before I finish: We are very excited about the answer to the question. I would like to draw particular attention to Question No 17. This is because we also have evidence that a few hours before the house search, an external service provider, a transport company, collected things from the Federal Chancellor's Office and were supposedly invited and led away various folders, various files, documents, supposedly even PCs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] We are very excited whether this information we have is really accurate and whether it has really been collected from the Federal Chancellor's Office a few hours before the house search. I am really trying to take this seriously, especially the government parties. It is not possible that ministries, the Federal Chancellery et cetera just days before an investigation committee begins to delete and scrap large areas so that they do not have to deliver any files to the investigation committee. Something that doesn't exist, you can't deliver, that's clear. As a Parliament, we really have to put a serious sign that we do not allow control to be dealt with in this way. I really want you to amend this motion for a resolution accordingly, because otherwise it will have no effect at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e14019	Mr Kogler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I can give him the word. Please, Mr Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e14041	Mr President. Honourable Members! High house! This is an extraordinary situation. So often, I don't think, the Deputy Chancellor is making the answer to a urgent request for a German chancellor. [[Intervening calls from Members of the port and smoke.]] It is, however, clearly regulated. I can also bring these rules closer to you so that they do not lead to misunderstandings. In any case: Federal Chancellor Schallenberg is staying in Brussels today and meets, among other things, the President of the Commission of the Leyen or has already met her, and he has other dates there during his first trip abroad. He told me that we discussed this – I welcomed this foreign trip by the way – and he asked me, on this occasion and subsequently, in writing, to represent it in Parliament, if necessary – this case has occurred. However, a comprehensive representation in all its tasks is not provided for in our Constitution in the case of an EU stay, but it is a parliamentary representation. That's what's happening right now. The question of the representatives of the Social Democratic Party is now addressed to the Federal Chancellor and was answered by the responsible officials in the BKA and the Cabinet in the genuinely delegated ministerial responsibility of the Federal Chancellor. I have also tried to reach Federal Chancellor Schallenberg in Brussels by telephone. This has not been achieved – so far, so well – but there is a written notice from the Chief of Cabinet that the Federal Chancellor, Mr Schallenberg, agrees with the content of the subsequent answer to the question. In any event, I hope that I have chosen an comprehensible method for all sides and that the presentation of the results can then be arranged accordingly. I will show extra if – and this is only the following passage – I would like to say something in my responsibility as Vice-Cancellor and Minister. I would like to bear in mind in this responsibility that there is neither an arrangement for the central deletion of data in my or any other green place, at least according to my level of information, nor an arrangement for the central deletion of data. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] Between the objective and the measures in the IT consolidation project, which is a good one – it is also to be found in the government programme – and an arbitrary arrangement of deletions of emails and data is therefore not a causal link from my point of view and from the point of view of my group colleagues, whom I have addressed. [[Abg. Smoking: Say who?]] However, I emphasize: an arbitrary arrangement of deletions of emails. We think that's gonna make it clear. In conclusion: The level of implementation of this IT consolidation, of course, varies from one place to another – as far as my opinion on it is concerned. In the interests of the signed Members, I shall now bring to your attention the answers to the urgent question to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, honourable Members. I hope that you will all have the documents in mind as regards the number and precise wording of the questions, and therefore allow me to mention only the numbers of the questions. On questions 1 to 3, the Federal Chancellery or the Federal Chancellor answers: The documents mentioned in the request are process steps in the context of a project of IT consolidation, which is a joint effort of all ministries of the Federal Government. As far as possible, IT systems are to be transferred to the Federal Accounting Centre, because, due to the existing expertise, even better and higher security standards for the IT systems can be guaranteed there than in the ministries themselves. Therefore, for the implementation of the IT consolidation in each department, there is a decision of all the General Secretariats of June 2020. As a result, a steering committee consisting of BKA, BMKÖS, BMF and BMDW was set up in August 2020. Against this background, the Federal Chancellor's Office plans to migrate the existing IT infrastructure, including available IT applications, including Microsoft Exchange, to the Bundesrechenzentrum. Since the beginning of the year 2021, joint conceptual work with the Bundesrechenzentrum has been taking place. In this context, the IT environment was also coordinated at the Bundesrechenzentrum für die Verwaltung der Emails. The technical preparatory measures to this end, in particular with the Bundesrechenzentrum, have been in place since July this year. As part of the transfer of Exchange – the server now – as a sub-project of IT consolidation in the Federal Chancellery, the involvement of staff representatives has also taken place since September. With the migration of the e-mail applications to the Bundesrechenzentrum, the Federal Chancellery is planning a step that many other services of the Federal Government are currently planning or already carrying out. Among them are the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Federal Accounting Agency, the Federal Ministry of Labour, the Section Family and Youth of the Federal Chancellery, retrospectively the Federal Ministry of Art, Culture, Public Service and Sport, the Federal Ministry of Climate Change, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology, the Federal Ministry of Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection and the Federal Ministry of Education, Science and Research. – As far as the surveys in the Federal Chancellery are concerned. The procedure in the e-mail of 4. At a meeting with the Service Committees on 14 October the staff representatives were already appointed. ==References== The period laid down by law in such cases was also referred to for feedback. On questions 4 and 5, the Federal Chancellery or the Federal Chancellor answers: A total deletion was and is not foreseen, but rather IT applications are prepared for migration to the Bundesrechenzentrum. The availability of existing data is not subject to any change. The technical implementation has not yet begun, so there is no actual process. The letter of information is a consultation procedure in accordance with PVG § 9, in which, as provided by law for in such projects, the staff representative is involved. On questions 6 to 10, the Federal Chancellery or the Federal Chancellor answers: As part of the project implementation of the IT consolidation in the Federal Chancellery and regular information on progress – according to the project name – the relevant group in the Federal Chancellery. The mandate for voting with staff representatives has been given orally by the Secretary-General within the framework of the structures provided for in the House. These are instructions for work, and they have not contradicted any staff. The IT consolidation order was issued in writing in June 2020. On question 11 the Federal Chancellery or the Federal Chancellor answers: It is a meeting with the Service Committees of 14 May. ==References== On questions 12 and 13 the Federal Chancellery or the Federal Chancellor answers: The Federal Chancellor and his Cabinet are informed about the implementation of the government programme and the IT consolidation contained therein. On questions 14 to 16, the Federal Chancellery or the Federal Chancellor answers: No central deletions have been performed or ordered during the period and no devices have been removed. I have, I think, remembered that Parliamentary Krainer has explicitly called 17 questions, so I would like to ask you as a special service question 17: "What transport companies ran between 3rd and 3rd. October 2021 and 6. October 2021 Orders for the Federal Chancellery through? “ On question 17 the Federal Chancellery or the Federal Chancellor answers: The Federal Chancellery has between 3 and 6 years of age. No transport companies commissioned on October 21, 2021. On questions 18 and 19 the Federal Chancellery or the Federal Chancellor answers – pull your conclusions yourself, but let me answer the last questions: [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] The amounts of data on the Exchange servers are subject to constant technical dynamics. Currently, data are stored for the use of the applications of the Federal Chancellery in the order of several 100 terabytes. These include the e-mail mailboxes of employees. On question 20 the Federal Chancellery or the Federal Chancellor answers: It is not a date of deletion but of data migration, and is a date in the vote to ensure that data are not lost in the context of this migration. On question 21 the Federal Chancellery or the Federal Chancellor answers: The period remains unchanged for one year. Finally, the Federal Chancellery or the Federal Chancellor answers the question: The removal of migration is not foreseen. That, I think, answers all the questions from the Federal Chancellery. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e14140	Mr Leichtfried has spoken. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e14162	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Hörl: Excuse yourself now for the accusations of the crane!]] Mr Kogler, I am already a bit horrified. You know me well, we know each other well: If I say a little horrendous, I'm actually quite horrified. [[Abg. Hear: After what now?]] I was already horrified when the Greens, together with the Turks, turned off the Ibiza Investigation Committee, because it would have been enough to find out. [[Abg. Hörl: He's gone out, my friend!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: What does “turn off” mean?]] And now, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, my horror is repeated a little. I recognize that, you say, there will be no cancellations in your area of competence. But you imagine and read what the turquoise family makes available to you, so to speak. You have to do that, I understand. [[Vice Chancellor Kogler: But you already know the federal constitution?]] But that no word of criticism, no as usual criticism of these processes, which seem to take place now in the Federal Chancellor's Office, is expressed – Mr Kogler, that would certainly not have happened in the past. [[Intervocations with ÖVP and Greens.]] You have to say that quite clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Strasser and Mr Wöginger.]] [[Call at the ÖVP: That's just show!]] I can only draw your attention to an interesting answer. "La longue" are probably the most interesting answers you have read, but I just want to draw attention to one thing. Question 17 was: Was transport carried out? And the answer was: There were no orders! - That's something else. So transports have apparently been carried out, and I think it will be very interesting for the future, what has been transported from the Federal Chancellery, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Only submissions! Only submissions!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] [[Abg. Strasser: Where is the subject matter of criticism now?]] The election campaign of the Greens was marked by some interesting keywords, including that the grace would choose the Greens. I think I'm sure you've been trying a little bit to justify the continuation of the biggest shredder action in this Republic. [[Abg. Wöginger: I think I know for sure!]] [[Abg. Stögmüller: Is this the Federal Chancellor now?- Oh, my God!]] That, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, is not you, that is not worthy of you! I have to say that quite clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with ÖVP and Greens.]] Even though in this – given – question response was now tried to explain that at the end nothing was already deleted, it is clear from the order adopted by the Secretary-General – and that counts in this case, and there it is literally inside – that it is deleted quite clearly. [[Abg. Stögmüller: But go! That's a bad speech!]] [[Abg. Tomaselli: Return to sender!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] This is the largest extermination action of the Second Republic to prevent further corruption, further abuses and other immorality being revealed in this country. We will certainly not take part in this. On the contrary: We will do everything we can to make this happen, ladies and gentlemen. It's just unpackable, I have to say that quite openly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] What do we have to do with that? There's nothing you can do about it, I'm clear, and I'll stop criticizing you. [[towards Vice-chanc Kogler]] [[Abg. Prammer: Yes, but then - -!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] But what do we have to do with that? . We are trying to continue this illegal prevention of data supplies, as Mr Blümel has suggested. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Straster.]] It has needed the Constitutional Court and the Federal President to stop it. Now the Federal Chancellery is trying to get away with this. That is something that is not acceptable, ladies and gentlemen. They want to bend the rule of law and we simply do not accept it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: This is a groundless naughtiness, really!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Klubobmann Wöginger has just made an intermediate call and means what I am saying here is a “groundless cowardice”. I'll tell you something. What drives the turquoise family is a landless cowardice, that is, to the whole country! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] The question is, however, and I think that is the most important question: Why do they do that? Why do they constantly do things that are simply not understandable to other people? Why, as it happened, do they want to scrape an anonymous thing? That doesn't make a normal person. Why do they want to delete all the e-mails in the Federal Chancellery? [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: They won't be deleted!]] [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: They won't - -!]] Why do you do that? – Explain Let me have this. Why do it? You do? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can provide you with the answer. The answer is that you want to prevent other things that have happened there from coming to light. That's what you want. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Straster.]] There's a suspicion that the house searches have been betrayed, there's a suspicion that the investigations are concertedly restricted and disabled. Perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, this is in these e-mails that may exist in the Federal Chancellery, and they want to prevent it from coming out. That's why we're just going on this question and we're not playing with it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, that is why we also want to put forward a motion for a resolution – Mr President, I am now presenting the motion: [[Abg. Hörl: Since when does it need...?]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! [[Call the Greens: How long?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group, Appreciate Members of the Turks! If you take it seriously with the Enlightenment, you agree to this request and not to yours, which in fact will not do much. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Woeger: A whore!]] [[Abg. Stögmüller: That wasn't a good speech!]] [[15:34]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e14612	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Gerstl, who is today celebrating a round birthday, the sixties. – Good birthday, dear Wolfgang! I can ask you to present the birthday present.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e14643	Mr President, thank you very much for the congratulations. I would have liked to start with: If you are ashamed, Mr Krainer, but, Mr Leichtfried, you have more upset me now, because although Mr Vice-Chancellor has clearly explained to you that there is an IT security strategy and that is not a deletion, insist on your accusations. I'm disappointed by social democracy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr President. Mrs. Geessler has already done it. The Minister of Labour has already done so. The Secretary of State for Culture has already done so. Mr. Mückstein has already done it. The Minister of Finance has already done so. All have done the same, namely to fulfil the security strategy of the federal government by migrationing the data from its place of business to the Federal Accounting Centre for security reasons, i.e. sending it there to secure the data. [[Abg. Easyfried: Just read the letter from the Secretary-General!]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: Why are you laughing, Mr President?]] We therefore have a backup of the data and no deletion, Mr Leichfried. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In fact, we are concerned that IT security is not only guaranteed in every company and that new operating systems will also be improved accordingly, but that it is done the same way in the federal government. I am particularly disappointed, Mr Leichfried, that you Your desire seems to have not even read for yourself, for if you wish, you quote the order of the Secretary General Bernd Brno. He says that e-mails in the e-mail mailbox for “maintaining the ordinary service” until 10. November to be transferred “in an electronic act” – i.e. to secure the electronic act. They claim the opposite. Mr Leichtfried, be ashamed! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Let's go. Let's go.]] If you do not want to believe me, Mr. Leichtfried, then look at the September 2021 Court of Auditors report on the “IT security in the administration of selected Federal ministries”. [[Keeping that report up-to-date]] In this, the Court of Auditors recommends that many departments do what they need to do to ensure safety, and the Federal Chancellery, among other things, “to actively announce the IT security strategy to all staff members.” What are you doing? – The mail that goes to the Federal Chancellor’s Office’s staff representation – and there probably one of the Social Democracy – now interprets as a mail, where anything should be done in the back, and you try to scandalize it, although the Federal Chancellor’s Office complies with § 9 of the Staff Representative’s Act, so that all staff members will know how their data will be secured and secured in the future. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: Yes, eh!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: To be killed!]] If you want to read again: The project is called “strengthening cyberdefense capabilities in the BKA” – in the Federal Chancellery. A “Information Security Guideline” has been established for this purpose. [[Abg. Belakovich: Ah that simple!]] [[Abg. Matznetter: Cyberdefense against...!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is the opposition's task to also ensure control, but control needs quality. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer.]] Scandalizations are too little. Only today has it become known that the SPÖ's announcement against the vice governor of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank was filed for false evidence in the commercial bank Mattersburg's case because of a lack of initial suspicion by the prosecutor's office. Ladies and gentlemen! So scandalizes the SPÖ. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Did you not show the Doskozil? I mean, excuse me!]] She's trying to make policy with criminal charges. We're going to point this out to the sharpest. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Mr Matznetter, I would have preferred if you would tell us about the state of investigation on the commercial bank, for example, where the millions have stayed. I would rather have known, and many people also wonder: Was there house searches in Burgenland? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] What is the state of investigation in the commercial bank case? Many people also wonder: How was this when Mrs. Wehsely – at the time councillor of the SPÖ in Vienna – was responsible for the millions of damage to the Vienna Nord Hospital? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Why was the rice wolf in the town hall at that time? What happened? – Explain this to us once! [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Perhaps it's normal for you to have the rice wolf if Mrs. Wehsely is transferred to the Scandal Hospital in Vienna Nord. This is not so seen by many in the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, many people also wonder: Why is the public only talking about this one thing? [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] Why is there not also talk about it: How many accused were there in the case of choir lord? [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] How many house searches were there in the matter of choir master, there were also cell phone evaluations there? – You wonder about some media coverage. We can assume, however, that the judicial system fulfils its task. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in times like this, it is not only for control but even more for cohesion. We don't need any ignitions from the left or the ignitions from the right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We – Corona is still not over – continue to have a serious situation that has an impact on our private life and on the entire economic life, so it is for all of us to work together. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The population expects not to be scandalized, not tossed, it does not expect poison, Mr. Krainer, but to cooperate in the construction of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e14899	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e14920	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Mr Gerstl, good for today's birthday! I am only quite surprised why you have just been sent out as a speaker, because you unfortunately did not accompany the Ibiza Investigation Committee to the end, but – even before it was turned off from you or from your colleagues – you have left the committee. Perhaps that is why you did not fully understand the conclusion and the reason why we have set up another committee of inquiry. Perhaps one more thing, Mr Gerstl, which is interesting, if the ÖVP takes the word Reisswolf into its mouth, I may be able to help you a little: This is the company whose bill – it was issued under a false name at the time – a Chancellor's employee did not pay. It's this company, so maybe you'll see what the cooperation with this company is like. One more thing is interesting: I look at Mr Vice-Chancellor, who is really leading me in this context because he had some problems today, first it was a traffic problem. [[Vice Chancellor Kogler: What?]] The fact that you're coming too late can happen, it's not bad, but I'm still grateful that it happened, because it also shows how important it is for your transport minister to make proper transport policy and not stop road construction projects. You see, even the vice-chancer is now affected by this situation. Maybe you'll direct her to focus a little on it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another thing I have to say to you, Mr Vice-Chancellor: You said it was absolutely important for the government to be operational. - That's what we see. They have also confirmed to us that the government crisis has ended. Now, of course, I imagine that this is interesting when a Vice-Chancellor tries to reach the Federal Chancellor by phone, who does not stand up and may still think in Brussels: Who is this Kogler who is always trying to reach me? I don't know how to imagine how you're cooperating with each other right now, but don't be angry with me. If the vice chancellor does not reach the Federal Chancellor, that will not work. I'm sorry you still have to hold your head for that now, as it were. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Why are we here today and why are we discussing all these issues? The Old Federal Chancellor is also just amused about his actions. Perhaps, Mr. Altbundeskanzler Kurz, you can come out directly and tell us here from the speaker's desk what you thought when you gave this Nero command to destroy everything in the Federal Chancellor's Office as far as the files are concerned, and why the trucks you are now saying have never been able to get out of the Federal Chancellor's office in live broadcasts – on Oe24. Have the Potemkinian load weights been? I don't know what drove you there to give that answer. Of course, we will still look into the live streams, which was brought out of the Federal Chancellery, which was never present. That's strange, there seems to be Fata Morganas, and you have to explain it all. So why are we doing that? – Because we have seen in the Committee of Inquiry that there is a short system. There is a system Turquoise, there is a family that has torn this Republic piece by piece under the nail. What we are discussing now in this urgent question is another step that has been taken to blur exactly those traces that you have actually left in the Republic: Your morals, Mr. Altkanzler Kurz, and what you did to your friends in the Republic. You've shaken the state in the last few days – you should not forget that – you've seen it all the time, you've heard an appropriate international echo. You've manipulated surveys, you've put away your own party supervisor with taxpayers' money. You can't discuss this away and you can't deny it, Federal Chancellor out of service. That was so. They wanted to incite federal states to prevent child care. You know, if you have been praised today, and I congratulate you, of course, for taking the step into the legislative process now, this is an exciting change in the separation of violence – relatively quickly with you – Mr. Altkanzler, I would have expected you to have at least once the cutting and come out here and say: I have made a mistake, I have betrayed the people for taxpayers, for my own sake, I have a responsibility to make up for my actions over the past few years! or that if it is not the other way, Mr. Altkanzler, you will simply and decisively apologise for what you have done. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] No one in your group has done this so far, and I am sorry about that. Mr Ottenschlager, the separation of violence is quite interesting, that is my next point on the list, where I was about to come. I see the separation of power with the system that is being continued, very, very endangered, just because just from the legislative point of view – as the new Chancellor Schallenberg told us – a German chancellor is being remotely controlled by a clubman, who is now sitting here, so to speak, just waiting for him to come back. [[Abg. Strasser: What does this have to do with the request?]] I can only tell you: That won't be the case. As far as the question is concerned, we are coming to the next point, thank you for the suggestion, since from my point of view a very perfide game has been played, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, because we have certainly suggested cyberattacks and cybersecurity. [[Abg. Strasser: Very much!]] I'll tell you one thing: The worst cyber-attack there has been in this Republic, you assumed, that was your deletion action. What is behind it is topping everything so far, beings of the day. What does it mean, however, when you first delete automatized messages that are older than a year, and on the other hand is so perfide, proceeds and says: If you want to keep messages longer, please go to the computer administrator and say that these messages should not be deleted!? – It has, as it were, been an automated cutting within your ministry. You could have understood, as it were, if any emails older than a year were still in circulation and then knew immediately who had saved this e-mail. I think we're right there at the deep state we're warning about. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Straster.]] I do not think that it is appropriate for the ÖVP to talk about it, to keep hiding and to wall it. It's just that we don't want to make it matter that you continue to darken. Mr. Altbundeskanzler, the system doesn't work that way. I would really ask you, and I also appeal to your reason not to continue this system and not to cling to this system, because it is – it has been said several times – about this game. It's a question of time before we get further information about what happened in the other ministries. I have received similar information from the Ministry of Finance, which is also being scrambled there on high-speed tours, sometimes you can see these light fluctuations in the house, which is always when your ministries throw the shredders. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Steinacker and Mr Strasser.]] So, Mr Altbundeskanzler, please ask here and apologize for what you have done! Make it clear why you have issued this Nero command, why you are having files destroyed in great style, and answer the questions that have been asked! Unfortunately, Mr Vice-Chancellor has not been able to do so because the Turkish group has not given the appropriate answers to the trip. Even if the discussion was unpleasant, Mr Altbundeskanzler, please: Tell us what happened! [[Abg. Straster: No argument!]] Tell us also what the plan is and whether the ÖVP still wants to participate in the investigation of all the stories or whether you continue to insist on your position and do not find it worth apologizing with the population!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e15051	Mr Blimlinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I can give her the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e15072	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Ministers, Ministers! I would like to point out to the SPÖ that it is against all parliamentary use to invite someone who knows that he is not in Austria and that, instead, the vice chancellor must appear here. You're doing this against better knowledge. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If you already know all this for a week, as Mr Krainer says, then you would have brought her in yesterday and not today, then you would have taken the Chancellor and not the Deputy Chancellor. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] This is not comprehensible and really violates any parliamentary use. Don't be angry with me, but that's really not a thing! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Another thing – that's what I say in advance: Your motion for a resolution is touching, but why do you not support us? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] The Federal Government is a collegial body – yes – but there is a single commitment. I can't say, They are not obliged, only as a collegial body! – Of course, the individual in the collegial body is obliged and this decision is binding. So, Mr Krainer: a little more overview of processes, collegial bodies, individual decisions! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Maybe a little comment: The biggest Schredder action – at that time I was active in the State Archives – took place under Federal Minister Edlinger when he cleared his office in 2000. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] In the end, there wasn't even a phone inside. It was empty, and it was shredded, and only a small part – a very small part – landed in the state archive. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] So the accusations of the two parties – who has done something more – are always mutual. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] A word for IT consolidation in the Federal Republic of Germany [[new calls to the SPÖ]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign again]] We have this in the government programme, which is good and right. I'm just saying two examples: IT consolidation of existing federal systems, anchoring the use of the elaks in the eGovernment law. A uniform IT workplace: that it is not uniform, many officials in the Federal Service can sing a song that would be very desirable. There is also no single e-mail system in the bundle. I would also ask for this for all zoom-like meetings, because, as we have seen in the last one and a half years, each ministry has a different system. In terms of clarity, coordination would certainly be useful. The green ministries are of course also part of this IT consolidation. Some, including individual sections, are already migrated to the BRZ – Mr Gerstl has mentioned a few ministries – which is not yet fully implemented. [[Abg. Martin Graf: There is no green ministry, there is only...!]] Where the migration of the data to the BRZ is already taking place, is not deleted. There are also no orders on any deletions. However, I may already point out that, as soon as someone divorces from office – whether political office or official office – the email address will be deleted. He doesn't have her the next day, she doesn't have her anymore. Depending on the transitional period in individual Federal Ministries, the transition period is one month or maybe two, but I have no access to the data at all, and these – the account and all emails – are, of course, deleted from this mailbox – sometimes immediately afterwards, sometimes a few months later. In the cloud they usually remain. This is often different – depending on which Skartierordnungen have offices or ministries – but usually they will be deleted after a year. They will then be deleted if they are not in the Elak, as it is so beautiful. It is simply emails that have been written in normal party traffic or also in internal traffic. That is why, as I have said on several occasions at this point, we urgently need a reform of the Federal Archives Act, so that it is adapted to these requirements, because we have a concept of the act that has happened, I say now. To this end, take a brief look at the story on the question of lifting, archiving, scrapping or mapping: I advise you to look at the house, court and state archives – it is currently locked because it is being rebuilt. It is now one of the archives of the Austrian State Archives – in addition to the General Administrative Archive, the Financial and Court Chamber Archives, the Archive of the Republic and the War Archives – and was founded in 1749 by Empress Maria Theresia. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] It is due to their initiative that there is at all this that the centuries-long project and the repeatedly failed plan to make a central ruling archive of the house of Habsburg could be realized – a milestone, as I mean. [[Abg. Silvan: Deputies Krainer...!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Maria Theresia wanted to ensure the availability of files. Finally, the difficulties it had encountered during the outbreak of the Austrian War of Success in 1740 to 1748 were crucial. The Austrian War of Succession broke out when, after the death of Emperor Charles VI, and thus the extinction of the male line of the house of Habsburg, his daughter Maria Theresia ascended the Austrian Archduke throne and several European princes claimed their own claims on the Habsburg Erblands. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Ottenschlager: Listen, now it's interesting!]] Indeed, those old documents have failed to prove their inheritance rights. She wanted to exclude such painterries for all futures – a woman who was very much interested in lifting files. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] All the important legal and ruling titles of the Habsburg House – usually documents, everything that existed – were collected from the remotest archives and brought to the house archive, which finally became accessible in 1918. Today, the Federal Archives Act regulates the archiving and use of the Federal Archives. There has only been a Federal Archive Act since 2000, which regulates access to the files and the withdrawal of files. A second important part in this structure, however, is the law firm, which was adopted – also by Maria Theresia – more than 200 years ago. It is as beautiful as the Constitution – I would say, gracefully. It was not replaced by the so-called office order until 2004, since there are no more law firms. In this office order, § 26, a paragraph on the extermination of electronic files, states very accurately that the “electronic storage” – and all of this, not just the files – “is to check annually for the need for further storage of the files”. This – check if it is to be isolated or to be cancelled – does the state archive. From the point of view of a historian, I can only say: Please, please, everything, lift everything! They're all going crazy – even with us in the club – because I always say: Pick up everything, don't screw it up! – The IT people also become insane because they have to manage data volumes. I'm just saying one thing: If there had not been the inheritance documents, perhaps we would today be Schlesier, Bavaria, Spaniards – depending on the perspective of the succession war. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In this sense I can only say that by the way the Windisch-Kaserne is to be renamed Richard-Wadani-Kaserne.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e15260	The historical reconnaissance was interesting, I learned something. Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. He's got a book with him. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e15284	One that you will like, Mr President. – Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! There's one more thing to say, you're not learning anything in Parliament! – Thank you very much, Mrs Blimlinger, for this lecture – I recently prepared a presentation on Maria Theresia with my daughter –: There were details inside, I didn't know. I am very grateful for this, and I will also speak to the State Archives. Colleagues Gerstl I also congratulate very much on this youth birthday – 60! – I can tell you, I wish you all the best, you have a lot of things ahead of you. Whatever connects us is that we already remember – I am a little more – many stations in this Second Republic. When we're talking about history: I could now list the Government of Klaus II or the Government of Kreisky I. What do I want to say? The history of the Second Republic is very varied, but once with a little more confidence in politics, once with a little less confidence in politics – triggered by various events, including scandals of the two former major parties. But one thing I'm saying very seriously now: In such a short time as to damage politics and lose so much confidence, there has never been. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] I am pleased about all the young politicians here, from all parties – great people, welcome – but that young people, before they are in power, are spreading so much hybris, that is unique. I refer to what we read from 2015, 2016, 2017. I have to tell you, this also leads to sad personal experiences. I left Parliament a short time ago and I see a woman pushing a stroller in front of me. I really like to look into strollers because I find the miracle of man and the miracle of life so fascinating. [[Abg. Smoking:... has gone for a walk with the laptop!]] – It was God’s thanks to a baby in it, but only that in such wonderful experiences as that one, a pram and a baby, we must think of such crimes – and now I have just managed to scrape – that makes me very sad. [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Anger.]] Then the judicial system was attacked, and I would like to explain it again. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] In November 2019, there were house searches with Mr. Schmid and with ÖVP politicians; and in January 2020, there was a so-called background discussion – order: write – in which Mr. Kurz just told journalists that this was a network of red prosecutors, who all came from the BSA, because one now has to change the criminal laws because that is quite dangerous what they are doing, and one has to refine the competences. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] I just talked about Romania. Liviu Dragnea has also tried to curtail the capabilities of the prosecutor's office because he was persecuted. Someone already knew he was going to be persecuted. I did not think that what was possible in this country was possible. Now I have succeeded in a second essential institution, namely the Federal Administration: With everything we might want to complain about here and there – that something is too slow that is not well – I have always personally trusted in the Austrian Federal Administration. However, we have experienced that there are simply hard drives being scraped. We still need to clarify who gave the instruction. We now know that it is false – and the Minister of the Interior has also said something false – that they were of any copyists. They were at least partly very well from computers or laptops. From whom? What was on it? – We won’t know it anymore, but – and there I am again at the point – because so many terrible things have happened, they are trusted to do so much. If I stay with the administration: Yes, in the SPÖ and in the ÖVP political occupations have been carried out over and over again, there the cabinets have been formed and they have grown larger. It is new that a Finance Minister has 30 cabinet members – I think – that there are more and more people everywhere in the cabins, 80 press speakers! At the same time, it is new that the Cabinet members are still going into the administration to really get everything political – no, party-political! - control. This has also led to an extremely strong loss of trust. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Now I come to Mr. Kurz: In the Committee, the question was whether everything had been passed on – just a moment! - Because that must go into the state archive, Mrs. Blimlinger. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Strasser]] I spoke to one of the officials there today, who explained: Of course, the Federal Chancellor's calendars have to be handed over one as they are – and all the German Chancellors of the Second Republic and the Federal Chancellor have done so. What did Mr Kurz say? – No, I didn’t, because I decide what I’m giving! - Wrong, another false statement. I admit, in this case it may not have been intentional, in other cases too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] As there was also talk about backups: We all now get information from different sides to watch this and that. I wanted to meet someone who told me that there are, of course, backups for everything that was written and sent in the Federal Chancellery. These backups have the Bundesrechenzentrum. Now only the question is: Where are they stored physically? My information is: supposedly in the Federal Chancellery, perhaps they have now come to the Bundesrechenzentrum. Unfortunately, Mrs Bundesminister is not here, I would like to ask her very much: Where are all the backups physical? Are they then hopefully passed on to the next committee? The next question, Mr Vice-Chancellor – you cannot answer it, but the Federal Chancellor must answer it – is: Should our administration, which we still hope to work properly, really be guided in part by people who are either accused of the wrong statement before the committee or of infidelity and bribery? Is this all right for accused persons to be in substantial, central areas of the Austrian administration? Also, the competent gentleman in the Ministry of Finance is still talking to journalists and giving orders – perhaps he also forgives ads, I don't know, they have so much money. But is that really necessary? Could there not be the propriety and say: Ladies and gentlemen, if someone is accused, he can no longer cooperate there, just as section head Pilnacek can no longer cooperate! It is about building up confidence – and I would like to say that quite clearly. Other professional groups have also been damaged. What can properly and well-functioning opinion researchers do to make them all worse now? – No, there is also a decent person, I also worked with which. As was done there, however, trust was lost. [[Abg. Straster: (a document to the height) To...!]] I would like to say again: You've damaged so much trust. Please, let's start by recovering this trust! I very much welcome the fact that the Federal Chancellor is in Brussels today – and he should also make other trips abroad in Europe because our reputation in Europe has suffered massively. It seems like the vice chancellor's noding – he's got contacts as well. Our reputation in Europe has been massive, because so much loss of confidence has occurred in the country. I think that is so unfortunate, that we must all act together. Clubobfrau Meinl-Reisinger said: We've reached out. I would also like to say from my modest point of view that I also told the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs: Let's do it together! But then we also need to build trust, to put away indifference, the indifference of those who have acted politically improperly – I am not talking about criminal law, but about politics; therefore I have brought this book. I say this quite modestly to the conclusion: It is a great biography about Alois Mock “A politician writes history”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Strasser]] [[The speaker gives the book “Alois Mock. A politician writes history” by Martin Eichtinger.]] I just want to say so much: Alois Mock wrote history with his European policy alone, when he said in the 1970s and 1980s how important Europe is, even though he was not German Chancellor. You can turn this around now, too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e15423	Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e15460	Mr President. Dear High House! Now something has happened again, the next political bomb has burst. In Austrian domestic policy, more drama can now be found than in any Netflix series. But from the beginning: All Members here in the House have the parliamentary task of controlling the federal government, the power and the influence. The government works, we control, because power always needs control, that's clear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] - Yes, you can also praise it. Our most important tool for this information is an investigation committee if you don't turn it off – at this point: thanks, ÖVP and Greens. If it is not turned off, there is the possibility in a committee of inquiry to request documentation, to investigate things and possibly to reveal corruption. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Koza.]] Even before the next investigation committee can start to work – whenever it is – if not as last time the establishment is prevented – thanks to ÖVP, thanks Green! – we must, however, ask ourselves the question: What's the matter then? We've already heard: Yesterday at night, Whistleblowers and Whistleblowers turned to the SPÖ, with an e-mail that came with the order to delete data. So even before the information can begin, it is already deleted. If that's not a political scandal, I don't know! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Blimlinger, on the question why this urgent question is coming today: well, because this information came only yesterday night. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] One thing you have to admit to me now: The fact that you are now making yourself a green Member, almost in the service of the ÖVP, and you are defending it, is not possible at all! I can't do that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What would really do? – Three things: no longer hinder the political, parliamentary and educational work; by all means, ensure that the further deletion, the further scrapping, is stopped – I hope you support our request in this regard. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] And thirdly, Please no longer protect suspected, supposed criminals and criminals – and you have to say that clearly – because whoever has nothing to hide has nothing to be done to erase, Whoever has nothing to hide has nothing to do with it, that's probably logical. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In reverse: Whoever has something to shredder has something to hide.We know that already years ago, under Sebastian Kurzal's Chancellor, the Federal Chancellery, it came to a squeaker. By the way, this mail, which you all had ahead of you, was sent when Sebastian Kurznoch was Federal Chancellor, namely from an official from the Federal Chancellery – that you do not forget either. He's here today, perhaps he's still trying to talk about it. I therefore come to a final point. It was not only in the Federal Chancellery that he was rescued. I assume that the ÖVP has also been beaten up. We remember very bizarre press conferences in which it was claimed: “There is nothing left.” and “There is nothing to be found. ” What are we supposed to conclude when someone says: "There's nothing left"? Obviously something was there. Obviously, there's a lot of things in the dark. I just want to remind you: All these chats, all we've discussed so far, come from a single cell phone. There will be some more, there will be some more political bombs. We're prepared for it. The Enlightenment will take place, the next investigative committee, if you have not already done everything, will take place. In a very last sentence: We are still awaiting an apologies for all this great damage that this Republic has been caused – because of its propriety.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e15570	Mr Gödl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e15623	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the High House! Values listeners! They note at the debate in plenary that it can be quite turbulent in this House. I would like to follow up on a speech here two days ago, namely a speech by my very valued colleague Claudia Pakcolm, JVP-Bundesobfrau. It raised the following questions at the special meeting two days ago: “Why are you doing this?” Why are you going to politics? – These questions have certainly been asked some of us in the past few days. These questions were also asked me, from several sides, including my 13-year-old daughter. The image we are giving here, ladies and gentlemen, is really a fatal picture of the dispute, a picture of the disfavor, a picture of the mutual beggar, a picture of verbal disrespect. [[Abg. Smoking: That you give up here!]] [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Smoking: Mr Gödl, you are sorry!]] The impression that some Members convey is indeed embarrassing. [[Abg. Matznetter: Then tell your daughter...!]] – I say quite deliberately to some Members – like you, Mr Matznetter, of the opposition. I just don't want you to believe that your mandate derived from the voter's will is to campaign against everything and to work constantly with submissions! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] I just don't want to believe that opposition representatives will see their only task in investing all their energy in the destruction of the political climate. This urgent request fits exactly in this picture: A project that has been part of the government programme, which has been running across all ministries for over a year, for which a steering committee has been set up since August 2020, and which is being transferred to the Federal Accounting Centre by IT servers for good technical reasons, is intended to be criminalized for the cheapest populist motives, and that cannot be it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would therefore like to make it absolutely clear that it is a project that has nothing to do with scrapping and the destruction of files that has already been announced: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is the proposal I am submitting so that it is clearly clarified what this project is all about. I just don't want to believe, ladies and gentlemen, that you see your only electorate in it – as it is all day in the debate today – to be against everything, against an eco-social tax reform, against the draft budget for the coming year 2022, which will, for example, ensure that more than ever in education, the environment, is invested in employment programmes. No, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to believe that the only mission of your existence in this house is to invest your energy in destruction, in destruction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Sepp Schellhorn, by the way, put it right when he left here. He said, among other things, that: “To others, I also leave politics because [...] an overdose of political poison threatens to devour our Member.” So why are we going to do politics, ladies and gentlemen? . I tell you: because I believe in better, because I believe that at the end of the day in a democracy not the destroyers, but the designers of the future gain the trust of the population, because I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that justice will clarify everything and emptiness any political agitation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Erasim]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] We live, ladies and gentlemen, in a truly wonderful, thriving country. It is a country with the highest quality of life, a country in which all people have many, many opportunities, a country where a broad social network is spread. A thriving country is not a coincidence, a thriving country is a result, the result of a long-standing good policy – in the past as in the present. It is no coincidence that Austria is reaching top positions in many international rankings today, for example in that of Bloomberg in connection with the pandemic fight, in which Austria is far ahead. This success, ladies and gentlemen, is the result of positive political work in our country, especially under the leadership of Chancellors Kurz and Deputy Chancellor Werner Kogler. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer.]] Only the fact that today, after the outbreak of the pandemic and after the largest economic crisis in the Second Republic, we have even fewer unemployed than two years ago, that we have very high economic growth, show what positive policies are capable of. [[Abg. Lausch: Mr. Colleague...!]] That is what I am doing, namely for this positive policy, and that is what is expected of the population. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on all Austrians to gather behind those forces that have positive policies that want to shape positive things, behind those Members who are in the majority of this House, who want to shape positive things, behind this federal government, who want to shape positive things, and behind a Sebastian Kurz, who has already demonstrated how positive it can be, and who will make a lot more positive for our country in the future. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we stand for positive design and not for destruction, we stand for improvement in everyday life and not for destruction. For this we are elected – also you from the opposition. We are chosen to leave our children, not as survivors, but as heirs of a flourishing country. That's what I'm doing. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Disoski and Mr Maurer on his work.]] [[16:19]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e15842	The motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank – Mr Ries, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e15866	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Later, a petition was taken under item 14 of the agenda, which, on the one hand, had been dealt with in the meantime, but on the other hand met. It is the petition to continue the Ibiza Investigation Committee. ÖVP and Greens have walled at the time, and I believe that today they would rather have been extended to this committee, because the one who is now coming will be almost daily. The aim of the Ibiza Investigation Committee was clear to us at the time: A affected FPÖ should be brought to a standstill. – That was what had actually been ordered. At first it was also very good for the hunting society, everything was going as it was: a good choice, a new government – everything was good. At some point, however, every good luck tricks and a lot begins to go wrong: the corona pandemic, some regulations that were for the dungdo, wrong budget numbers and a U-committee that does not bring what is expected. What did the U-committee deliver? – An insight into a turquoise state in the state with its own pretorian Guard. Suddenly, it is about false evidence, false fidelity and infidelity, bribery and bribery, and the publication of counterfeit surveys, paid for by means of taxes, and everything is burdening the ÖVP. It is precisely the situation underlying this urgent question that proves how urgent this forthcoming committee will be, because it is now difficult to believe the ÖVP. As in the previous committees of inquiry, we will be involved in determining what is happening to these immense accusations that are already arising from the existing parts of the file. Since the house searches last week, the arrest of a opinion researcher and the cancellation order in the BKA, there are now further suspicions in the room. [[Call at the ÖVP:... released again!]] These are the breakage of official secrecy, suppression of evidence and data damage. As I said, we will see whether these and other accusations are confirmed. We as the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will do our job properly, so much so that we can promise. We can promise that we will not be unjustly rehearsed to any authorities, neither the justice nor the police. We will practice criticism when it is appropriate, but a flat-rate suspicion, as we have heard from you from the ÖVP, you will not hear from us. [[Abg. Strasser: This is a request!]] Whoever does not want to finalise the confidence of the public in the state, ÖVP, should also consider what he is doing on the subject of press conferences, for those who want to inform justice through press conference that there are no means of proof at all, and on the other hand, who are preoccupied with the breach of official secrecy, should not be surprised if the basic need of the population is seriously disturbed after a confidence in the state. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, on Tuesday a Member of your group told me: Anyone who digs a pit!, suggested – a very appropriate phrase in the current situation, as I think. He has met with it full black, because now the ÖVP is sitting in a pit that was originally dug for others. Dear Christian Democrats in the ÖVP, you will surely know the Bible history of the prophet Daniel in the lions' pit. In your place, I would not trust that you will be saved from this pit out of God's grace. You'll have to help yourself. If you don't have anything to hide, you'll get out of this pit without scratch. But if the existing accusations harden, then it will be the sharp teeth of justice and the investigation committee that will prevent a Bible - based happy end.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e15913	Mr Prammer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e15935	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! I wondered why this request to the Federal Chancellor is being made today, where he makes a visit abroad – widely announced. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sir.]] We know now: You actually had the fear that it would be a danger in delay. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[Abg. Matznetter: It's answered! Last night!]] You didn't understand the processes behind it, that's okay. The question was answered, everything should be clear now. [[Abg. Lord: Last night!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] But much more important is the information you need. We support 100 percent of the concern behind it, namely to ensure information that a future investigation committee needs to be informed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the SPÖ:But?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] We firmly believe that democracy can only work if administration is transparent. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Only then, if the Sovereign has access to the processes that happen in the offices in order to be able to make a judgment on whether the administration works in its sense can the system function. In a democracy, the Sovereign is the people. We're all the sovereign. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's why it's important that we have the opportunity to see what's going on in the offices. This is the simple consideration behind the abolition of official secrecy. This is what we will do with the Information Freedom Act. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Köchl.]] I know it's not there yet, and it's going to take a while until it comes – I don't want to put anything before you – but I can tell you why it takes so long. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] We are thus putting a principle on the head, which has been in this country since the 18th century. ==References== This is certainly not an excuse now, but it is an explanation of why there are so many resistances. It is a complete change in the understanding that the civil service has for centuries. In this way, we must not leave the people who work in the affected areas alone. We take these concerns that arise seriously, because we know that we are creating a cultural change with them, but: We'll do this. We will create in Austria a enforceable right to information on all administrative processes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Köchl.]] We are thus creating transparency to an unprecedented extent. We all here in the House are parliamentarians and we have the task and the duty to exercise control of the administration. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] That is why we are all interested in the fact that investigation committees can work effectively. Because a couple of times have been said here: You turned off the investigation committee! – If the investigation committee had been extended at the time, he would have stopped working in mid-September, and we would not have the next one in the pipeline. I just wanted to say it again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Smoking: You can't even know that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] We have tabled a motion for a resolution here that will ensure that nothing is deleted and that everything is available, which the future investigation committee could theoretically need. [[Abg. Smoking: How do you want to know what the opposition would have done?]] I assume that you will agree, but if not, it is not bad either, because then the government parties alone will ensure that the investigative committee has everything it needs.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e16129	Member Krisper has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e16150	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Did the turquoise system remove evidence of criminal proceedings regarding conduct relevant to criminal law, evidence for the investigative committee – the past, the future – with regard to corruption in the wider sense, characteristicly corrupt behavior? – We don’t know, naturally, because it’s gone. However, we have our experience of the turquoise behaviour of the last Ibiza Investigation Committee. There are also facts, and I would like to limit myself here to the facts. We remember the shredder affair. To this we were able to clarify in the U Committee that hard drives owned by the Republic were destroyed independently in dubious circumstances contrary to the usual procedures. This has led to the end of the investigation procedure and has been resumed on the basis of the findings and findings of the U Committee. What are the other facts? What do we know? . We know that we have hardly received any documents from the Ibiza Investigation Committee. Which side? – From the Turkish Federal Chancellery and the turquoise Ministries. We depended on the criminal act of justice. What did the Turkish ÖVP buy for it? – A breach of law. This is also a fact, because clearly it came from the turquoise Chancellor's Office in particular to a violation of the archival obligation under the Federal Archives Act, which exists and which are excluded from only personal documents. This did not lead to great outrage at the time, one has taken it more. It doesn't happen elsewhere. Think of the United States! – There all official emails from ministries must be stored and archived. There, archiving is carried out in a serious manner, with the result that sending professional content – we know this, professional content with a private e-mail address, i.e. in private ways – without archiving, led to a scandal about the then U.S. presidential candidate Hillary Clinton – here no big uproar. At the time, we NEOS thought that this breach of law on the part of the Turkish Federal Chancellor's Office was inconceivable, especially since we remembered that in April 2019 – before Ibiza – because of a request from colleagues Schellhorn here unanimously – all parties agreed on a resolution that in the future one is working to secure digital archives of the highest state organs, including the social media performances. That means that this would have gone even further than it is now. Courtesy was the application for implementation to the then competent Minister Blümel, and our requests have generated the following answer from him and from Minister Edtstadler: Working Groups, there are working groups. What happened after April 2019? - Ibiza. The Turkish system suddenly goes in a different direction than this resolution, which has also agreed to the ÖVP, and breaks the laws. The former Director-General of the State Archives also points out that the deletion of archival material was illegal months ago. He said: “If administrative material has been destroyed, it clearly contradicts the Federal Archives Act and would have a new quality.” We are once again in the new quality of the recklessness of a turquoise system, which is also happy to repeat violations of law if it is simply necessary to be able to protect itself from the information of the judicial authorities or of an investigation committee. This new system seems to be only possible with criminal law, because the new benchmark for the Turkish system is apparently only criminal law at the moment. That is why my colleague, Mr Hannes Margreiter, made an own-initiative proposal in April of this year, which will be discussed next week in the Committee on Justice, namely that evidence suppression should also be made punishable before the committee of inquiry. At the moment, only the false evidence – what we know – is punishable before the investigation committee and the falsification of a real evidence. But now one could say, if only the falsification of a evidence, but not the suppression is punishable, then hold a witness rather loses a cell phone before it is heavily manipulated. There is therefore a clear legal gap with regard to the suppression of evidence, and we want to close it next week in the judicial committee. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Every honest spirit in this house should join this, especially anyone who has nothing to hide. I also expect, of course, because of today's statements and the government party's request, that there is no reason not to go next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e16213	Mr Fürlinger is speaking on the floor. The word stands with him.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e16235	High Bureau! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I've really been looking forward to the comeback of politics in the autumn – to work in-house, to tax reform, budget, labour market, many special things that are in-house in our government programme. With this motivation I drove here to Vienna, but as it is so beautiful with Schiller, ladies and gentlemen: “It cannot remain the piousest in peace, / If the evil neighbor does not like it.” [[Call the SPÖ:Now the others are to blame! We didn't shredder!]] Unfortunately, the hour of misanthropies has come again, unfortunately those ladies and gentlemen who are singled out in this house who put the destruction before the construction, are again among us. [[Abg. Belakovich: What is construction?]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, we are living again in the time, in the normal things that are important for the Republic, such as the modernisation of a computer system, the centralization of a computer system, the slimming of structures, causing people to criminalize it. There are people here who make urgent requests because they have received part of a mail to a staff representative who says inside that data is collected and not deleted. But this alone is enough in the context of a very special press conference, which took place yesterday, in which a request was made for the setting up of an investigation committee. [[Deputies Lausch and Rauch keep tables with the inscriptions “Game over” or “# Game over” in height.]] However, this heading does not cover in any way what is in it in this, I would say, party-political title, ladies and gentlemen, because legal is not what is in it. [[Keeping a document in height]] It would be nice if lawyers would occasionally also deal with this, because this desire is not compatible with the words of the law and our federal constitution. If one asked a legal practitioner today to write a desire to set up an investigation committee, and he would write that, his professional career might not be very far off. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Let's go. Let's go.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that those whose political business is to drop down and disdain or slander, which wants to have so, is part of the fact that, unfortunately, the very valued colleague Scherak, who is not in the hall right now, has suspended his signature, can only be associated with the fact that he has not read it, for it would not be appropriate for his competence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Meil-Risinger: Excuse me, what is this?]] I would like my colleague, Mr Bürstmayr, who has also already noted that the legal level in the House is far from being desired, to perhaps take a look at it again, because I do not think that such a written statement has ever left his firm. This demand for a committee of inquiry is not worth what it says, it is legally a declaration of poverty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as we know, allegations in this republic are quickly raised, no matter who they come from, and it takes a long time to disprove them. But one thing, ladies and gentlemen, I can certainly tell you: We will go every one of these meters to counter these partly immense accusations and precepts that you are making here – and we will clarify them point by point. What I would like then is that those who spread so much dirt in this incredible pamphlet have the honor and the propensity to get out of here and apologize for what they have done, because we will demand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e16344	Mr Kogler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Mr President, on the Rules of Procedure.]] Mr Meinl-Reisinger spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e16379	Mr President. I rarely mention the Rules of Procedure, but the request to set up a committee of inquiry, which was put in place yesterday, here in front of all in the House to call it ‘hetzeschrift’ and ‘pamphlet’, which I think deserves a call for order. That is not appropriate for the dignity of the House! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e16406	Mr Vice-Chancellor has been spoken. - Please. [[Abg. Kollross: What is he doing now, President?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mr Vice-Chancellor has been spoken.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e16460	In other matters, I do not want to participate in this debate, which has just begun, but I do want to give a hint, because I am not always sure whether all Members of this House are, so to speak, accurately explaining the text and intention of the federal constitution. In any case, I do this before the last honourable Member speaks, because I also know the use of this. However, the Usancen is also in line with the fact that those members of the Federal Government are making a urgent request, which is also really in the country. There may be reasons for this, we have not complained about it, but one thing I would like to say, in particular, about the highly appreciated, otherwise highly appreciated Members. Lightness: If we are increasing our energy into increasing indignation, we can already expect some of this energy to be used to understand the Austrian federal constitution, which you have always been praised for, and there are the representation rights stoned and clearly regulated – stoned and clearly regulated! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I can draw your attention to that kind. 73 para. 3 B-VG gives certain indications about this. This is a parliamentary representation and not a question of my ruling in the Federal Chancellor's absence – where would we get there at all? But you have deliberately twisted this here, and you have to be able to do that now, even from the government bank. That's not how it is!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e16498	On the occasion of this debate, we shall vote on the following motions for resolutions: I have made no comment on the statement that “the people have cheated on taxpayers” and “promising criminals” in order not to bring in more emotions at last. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] We will discuss this in the Presidential. The fact that I call on all to listen to themselves with a moderate and corresponding voice, also repeatedly and also with the bell sign, is, I believe, as chairman of my task. Mr Schnedlitz is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e16534	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! Then let's get together! Yes, something has happened again, because it doesn't last a day without new turquoise horrors detonating in our Republic. No day goes by without our Republic being shaken and harming, ladies and gentlemen, and no day goes by without the inconsistency of the daylight for which every fair politician would have long since resigned. You will still be awarded as a clubman, congratulations! [[towards ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] The opposition must, of course, act and cannot now take into account dates when the Republic takes any damage on a daily basis. We'd love to, but we can't stop! Neither the SPÖ, nor the NEOS, nor the Greens, nor the Liberals, can do something for what you have listed, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why you also have to stand by when something like this is brought in here. [[Complementary with FPÖ and SPÖ.]] Mr Gerstl! A sad comparison – you delete data like those you just stumble on every day and call it the “IT Security Strategy”. [[Abg. Gerstl shakes the head.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Nothing will be deleted!]] – Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, just because you can speak up to the Greens, that is far from saying that you can sell people in this country with the shame for stupid or that it is SPÖ, NEOS and we are buying you! That's so simple. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And, dear Green, it is also obvious why you are so expressing your defense here! You let the ÖVP pull you over the table so quickly that only the friction heat created 2 degrees of climate warming. That's why you have to go out here now. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls with the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] IT security strategy translated: a strategy to eliminate information in order to secure the ÖVP. That's what it's all about. What do you think, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, what people think about you outside, when your former, your fallen turquoise angel takes a step from the government bank to the seats of the ÖVP delegates and you still have to deal with yourself day after day and keep this republic hostage? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] What do you think people think about you outside if you, instead of doing your job, are busy with things for which every Otto normal citizen would have long lost his job? Especially in times like this one would be from a state-bearing or – excuse! – Once a state-bearing party expects it to show some wide vision and at least – and all of Austria is waiting for it – the behavior that led to this deep case of its former turquoise angel, who is now sitting in the first row, not even in the first place, without the second, immediately – but also immediately! - stopped. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: You never did!]] [[Reciprocity of the speaker]] We are waiting in vain, and the Austrians are waiting in vain. As if what you've done and what you've been stumbled about would not be bad enough, now you're still flying on that you're trying to cover up and cover up. Ladies and gentlemen, this is proof that it is getting worse every day and not better! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] It does not become cleaner daily, but more dirty – and therefore thank you for these urgent, very much ladies and gentlemen! That is why we must stop this acting and finally pull the plug out of this system. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] No one in Austria wants to be ruled by someone whose dirt shows how moral bankruptcy he is. But one thing I promise you, as I stand here: We liberals, together with the Austrian population, will ensure that your moral bankruptcy will also follow your political bankruptcy in this country. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the Turks are leaving. That's what the voters are going to do, promised!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e16661	Member of the European Parliament, Mr Matznetter, has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e16683	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! It is really strange which excitement to form rather than to the content pop up. That's inconceivable! Let's stay calm and objective: Just on 4. October, exactly on that day, on which the prosecutors so to speak, the forces for the house searches on 6 October. On October 10, an order is collected that the entire backup data running behind the Exchange Server be deleted on the 10th in the Federal Chancellery, unless each individual employee, each individual employee of the Office, reports individually: We need that. [[Abg. Lopatka: This is a conscious error! That's not true!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] And this very circumstance was announced on the night of yesterday. All the objections that one could have done earlier: resistive. What else, if not that, is occasion for such a urgent one? - Honestly! The whole thing is going on now, of course. Member of the Krainer has clearly demonstrated why the planned resolution – which he had not yet submitted – is unacceptable: Instead of each member of the Federal Government, the collective body is invited. The crucial part, namely the Committee of Inquiry, has read to Mr Krainer quite correctly during his explanatory statement once again. [[Call to the Greens: “In particular”!]] [[New calls to the Greens: “In particular”!]] - You've had 30 minutes for the correction. [[Abg. Stögmüller: “In particular”!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] Did you bring it together? - No! [[Abg. Stögmüller: But you don't know yourself with it!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] No one has explained it, only: You've done this wrong. So, and now I come to the content of what else happened. Why are you doing this? Is that a Stockholm syndrome? [[Calls to the Greens.]] Did you actually listen to colleagues Gerstl who made allegations? Not that he said: We won't commit any more crimes so no one has to make an advertisement!, no, he said: Why does the choir master not have a house search? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] He has risen in the assumption that the former city councillor Wehsely under the wrong name had employed the company Reisswolf, who would not have paid the bill and had scraped hard drives. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] And how do you react to such precepts? – Eva Blimlinger gives us a lecture on the establishment of the archive in the 18th century. Century – honestly?! – instead of you going here and saying: [[Calls for Greens and ÖVP]] Friends, from now on! It is being examined, the scrapping is now stopped, now we look at every single information to dry this swamp! [[Complaints with SPÖ and NEOS as well as with members of the FPÖ]] That would have been your job, and I repeat here what I said yesterday: May the grace have chosen green – but if he did, he has now sought political asylum in Scandinavia. There is an information freedom law there – you did not bring it together. It would have helped us, because then all the deletion and scrapping actions that are now taking place throughout the world would not have been possible. [[Calls to the Greens.]] For the excuse: We're making a different system now! – Friends, the backups of the backups must be there. [[Abg. Zorba: Yes...!]] And the question of whether a house search has been betrayed may each answer for itself. Dear Seers, think about it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] At Mr. Schmid there is a house search, the cell phone is deleted, he even gives the code. The Federal Chancellor a. D. explains to us: I don't use the service handy, I'm just using the party's private phone! Next to which they come, Mrs. Beenschab, they must be arrested for two days because the hard drives were deleted when they appeared there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheucher-Pichler]] [[Call the ÖVP: Such a fool!]] Ms. Gaby Schwarz explains a week before the house search: There's nothing left to find at the ÖVP Party Centre! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] Do you have any connection? So, honestly, there are two ways: Either the prosecutor says: We don't know what we're doing with you, she announces herself before, writes a letterer: We may come in October!, or there are other sources that inform in time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cannon]] One thing, however, is clear, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: A decent person may have prepared the documents, but does not hand over a deleted cell phone. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] One can only say about the intelligence of this troop: It does not point to particular intelligence to believe that when the backups in the I-Cloud are deleted, they are deleted, and therefore the ex-Bundeskanzler in the investigation committee can tell what he wants. Even my twelve-year-old son knows that Apple, like any cloud provider, has a backup of the backups, and that after a brief request from the U.S. prosecutor's office, you can request a restoration with all the pictures on it. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: There you need the phone of the head of state Doskozil!]] – So much on the subject of intelligence. My last appeal is to the young woman Gödl: You're right if you criticize your father because he's in there, but, young lady, try to persuade your dad to leave because if he's not there anymore, he's a decent Member. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I congratulate you if you succeed, Mrs Gödl! - Thank you very much, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e16928	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of the European Parliament, Mr Leichfried, Mrs Leichfried, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gerstl, Mr Blimlinger, Mr Blimlinger, on the storage of files and data in the ministries. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. [[206/E]] [[16:52:38]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e16986	I will resume the negotiations on item 6. MEP Künsberg Sarre has been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17010	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! We from NEOS, which is not a secret, are firmly convinced that the educational profession – whether for school or kindergarten – is the most important thing in the Republic. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] We need the best and the most motivated for the educational profession, and for this we need the best training and working conditions. We are discussing here a unanimously adopted government template, which we agree with with some stomach pain, which we see as the first step in the right direction. But there's still a lot to do. What is our criticism? – The cross-entry is - -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17047	I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to lower the volume a little. Mrs Künsberg Sarre is speaking and would like to continue with her speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17068	We criticise the fact that this is too narrow for the professional groups that are in question, that there has been no involvement of professional groups, who would also be in question, and that in this training the practice is too short and it will, as it were, become difficult to use the people as group leaders immediately. However, a lot has happened since the last committee. I say it again now, because you can't say it often enough: “1.2 billion” – billions – “for afternoon maintenance with legal claim [...] Mega explosive!”, “Not good!!!", “How can you stop this?” – Mr. Sieber of the ÖVP explained earlier that it is not about kindergarten children, but about schoolchildren, as far as the EUR 1.2 billion is concerned. - I don't know what you're expecting. This does not make the written one any less angry just because it concerns schoolchildren! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's a kilnauer.]] We had two demonstrations of elementary education staff this week. What Do You Believe You know how they do when they read these files? What do you think of them when they see that no additional budget resources from the Federal Government for the field of elementary education will be made available again in 2022? And that after this long period of pandemic! Today, the ÖVP has been expressed several times to make it clear that we are not so far away compared to other countries in terms of childcare. A colleague from the ÖVP has meant that there are very few countries that have invested more in childcare than we have. I can present this briefly for you: The Scandinavian countries spend 2 per cent of GDP on childcare, and OECD funds are 0.8 per cent. Austria – great surprise! – spent 0.6 percent of GDP on childcare. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I see, Mr Taschner is just sitting in his seat. With him, you have a mathematician in your ranks. Go Please go to him and explain how to read statistics on how to calculate where Austria stands with expenditure! Mrs Hamann, you said that we all need to get together on the kindergarten theme. – Yes, that’s right, I’m right; Federal Republic, countries and communities, we all have to see that something goes on. But then always automatically in an additional sentence to say: Actually, the countries are responsible for this!, that makes you do it, I think, really a bit easy. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] To be honest, I do not really care who takes the lead in this issue, whether that is the Minister of Education, whether it is the Minister of Family, whether it is the Vice-Cancellor or even the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, or perhaps you too. It must take responsibility for anyone to feel responsible for taking over this and putting something on their feet. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Exactly!]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It's not enough to say all the time: We want to do it, but it's actually the countries that may not want it then! Since these unwarranted comments, 2,000 days have passed – 2,000 days in which children could have been better cared for, whether in school or kindergarten.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17139	Mr Fässmann is speaking. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17160	Mrs Künsberg Sarre, I have been careful about what you said, and I would like to address a few points. I believe that both of us undoubtedly link the desire for quantitative expansion and for a qualitative increase in elementary education facilities. That's what I'm going to assume. I am clear about this because it is very favourable for the school careers of children when they get to a pre-school educational institution early and then, as a step by step, grow into the primary level. We have seen this in the 15a agreement, that was a profit for language early promotion. That is why I believe that it is good – even in the sense of the children – if we develop the elementary educational area. I am also in favour of this, and this is the second argument because we are in the middle of a demographic change and therefore the problem of agreement is highlighted again. Mr Brandstätter, born 1955, and I, we are, as we are, the predictions of this demographic change. We are already almost in the pension, the others, the baby boomers follow us and leave a proper gap. [[Abg. Fireplaces: No!]] We will therefore have to consider something like raising the female employment rate as a need for a functioning labour market, and in order to increase employment rates, it is undoubtedly necessary to solve the problem of agreement. This is therefore another argument for the expansion of elementary educational institutions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In Austria, around 30 000 employees work in all elementary educational facilities for zero to six years, if I do not take the assistants and assistants into account. At the same time, the Bafep and the Colleges make up about 3,000 graduates each year. 30 000 employees in the system, 3 000 are trained annually – that is, Mr. Brückl, enough to ensure reproduction in this system. There I don’t need “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten”, but I only need to look at the homepage of Statistics Austria to see that. The expansion of the elementary educational institutions does not depend so much on whether I find enough staff, because I would have them – I had them, and now comes a crucial point – if they actually remained in the system. We observe a fluctuations outside and not in. Mrs. Künsberg Sarre! The conditions in the elementary pedagogical field are – this is not an excuse – dependent on the recipients, saying: on the communities and countries. That's right, we can't go over that. We, of course, as a federation, also say that we must take money into our hands and see that the conditions are getting better, that is not a question at all. The Federation will also take money into its hands and will start negotiations in the context of the 15a agreement on quantitative improvement and qualitative increase. It would be inconvenient, Mrs Künsberg – so do not negotiate! – if you say before: Sound so much money is available! – That's what you do at the end of a negotiation process, and here I do the same thing: Of course, there will be a negotiation process, of course there will be an improvement, and then we will know what we need to invest in the 15a agreement. Because the work situation is the same as it is, and because many do not enter the area and many go out again, it is also necessary to find new stakeholders for this professional activity, as well as the possibility of cross-border access. This is the actual content of our Government's proposal: to promote cross-border access and also to carry out linguistic modernisation. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] So there are only positive things behind that, but I have briefly described the fundamental problem: This is, of course, an interplay between the Federal Government, the Land and the Communities, and the better we create this interplay, the better we will achieve the fundamental objectives we, I believe, share. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17213	The next item is Mrs Claudia Pakolm's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17237	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen and representatives of the National Council meeting! I would like to focus briefly on the government paper on this item on the agenda. With the present proposal, we want to expand the training opportunities for elementary teachers and also make it easier for them to enter this profession. In addition to the five-year-old Bafep and the colleges which the Federal Minister has already mentioned, there should also be the possibility of a course of his own at pedagogical universities, namely elementary pedagogy as well as including elementary pedagogy. This facilitates cross-border entry – as I now think not only of returnees, returnees and re-privileged women into working life, but also of many young people, and among them also, thanks to God, more and more young people who, after a civil service in the social field – perhaps also directly in a kindergarten – can be interested in elementary pedagogy and choose a training in this field. This too is a cross-border approach that we urgently need. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Hamann.]] At this point I would like to thank all the elementary teachers very much, especially for the great work in the last yet very challenging year, which has also brought many difficulties through Corona. You give the children a place to develop their talents and skills, you lay the foundation for a good education of the adults of tomorrow, and it is absolutely not natural with how much heart blood elementary pedagogues approach their work. I would like to take a very brief look at the next item on the agenda, because we are dealing with the significantly increased numbers of school leavers in this school year, for which we want to explore the reasons and causes with a motivational research and therefore also want to make political distractions. I think it is extremely important that we clearly put forward unfounded school cancellations. In the current school year, the number of school leavers has tripled: In Austria, more than 7,500 children are taught from home. In well-founded and well-tested individual cases, the domestic teaching is also entitled, but if it is done as arbitraryly and without good reason, as happened precisely because of Corona, then only the children are the sufferers. That is why there is also a need for a clear legal framework for this. Students need the social environment, they need the curriculum teaching in the classroom by teachers, and there we need clear action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17288	The next speaker was Mrs Katharina Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17313	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Finally, we are discussing elementary pedagogy in the framework of a government template. In fact, one would almost like to rejoice – but almost only because the government template, which is at the table, has already been carried out, mainly about adaptations as regards professional names. Of course, this is also a personal initiative that is set up to enable cross-border access, but, Minister of State and ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and the ÖVP, this cannot and must not be the only child-education initiative! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There's more to it – much more! – but unfortunately you are no longer doing so at the moment, because you can't find any more in the budget. For example, it urgently needs a better payment for educators, for caretakers, because there is – quite honestly – a lot done every day. The reward, however, is, with leave, quite mau. Even in the Corona crisis, they were system owners, and the only thing that came was applause – and it's a little over now too. That's why: Full solidarity with the educators, caretakers and assistants who were on the streets yesterday, who are on the streets today and who will also be on the streets tomorrow, until the time, Mr. Federal Minister, where they will finally find your hearing! It also needs a uniform system for the whole of Austria. I don't think anyone can understand why it's different for children on Lake Neusiedler than on Lake Constance. That is why we urgently need the federal uniform quality framework, which we have so often called for, but which we have not yet put on foot, together with a legal claim to a child rearing place from the first year of life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The honourable fellow Members should also be free of charge, because it must not depend on the parent's wallet whether a child goes into the child's crib and thus learns education or not. To be honest, three federal states make it before – Vienna, the Burgenland and Carinthia – and it would be high time to get the free educational place on foot from the beginning across Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It needs, honestly, also a kindergarten which corresponds to the opening hours of the working world and which does not close at 12 o'clock, which does not have more than five weeks of vacation a year. This can only be achieved if you have the necessary small money and can pay babysitter or by chance you have grandparents who are no longer in employment. That is why it is quite sad that in 2021 we still have this condition in Austria. And clearly – aproposing money –: It takes quite clearly and urgently more money, and it takes more money than the 15a agreements make – that is simply not enough! Let's take a look back! It is so inconceivable that in 2017, the funds – whether for children’s families, kindergartens, and all day schools – would have been brought to the feet – namely, 1.2 billion euros for children, for parents, for educators and caregivers – and unfortunately they were stolen due to the self-profile of Sebastian Kurzund of the ÖVP system, namely the children, the parents and, above all, The women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is really unbearable and shocking, therefore all the more louder: With the 1.2 billion euros that Mr Kurz has deliberately mutilated! It simply really needs more money for the children, a better payment for the educators and caregivers and the free kindergarten everywhere, for all children in Austria. And: Please support moreknoedel.at the children's friends. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17394	Mrs Eva-Maria Himmelbauer will speak next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17415	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is very important what we are deciding today in the form of this government proposal: It is a linguistic appreciation, I think, to elementary teachers, that their professional name is also enshrined in a legal basis that is important to her. And it is a matter of extending training in a variety of ways, so that even if it has been carried out or has been built up, it is here, so that in the future, this form of training, which has not yet been included, is secured and recognised. If it is here that the debate has turned far too little on elementary pedagogy today, then I have to play the ball back to the SPÖ: Who has used this discussion today in particular for a political hack, which so many in this country are in principle already sorry? [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] But I also have to take one from the debate: At least most of the time, I take part today in the fact that all and most of us in this room are at the heart of the topic of care in kindergarten or school. [[Call the SPÖ: No, not the short!]] There has been a great deal of investment in this area in recent years. I can remind you: Even if They see it differently now, the Education Investment Act has provided 750 million euros for school afternoon care, or this has been set up in a 15a agreement. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: 428, stretch up to 2032!]] I am of the opinion that if we implement this, it is not only the Federation that bears responsibility here, but of course also the country, the countries and the communities that we all need on board to move forward. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: The sum is not right!]] I understand that one is quite skeptical if, in a decision like the one to be taken in 2016, the countries are completely pushed aside, for: Who's going to expand? – Not the federal government, but the countries and communities are responsible for the afternoon care and the local care. [[Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Heinisch-Hosek.]] So that you wanted to include them, I totally understand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At least I see this in the region. – I always have to say, not quite Austria is Vienna, not all the problems we know from Vienna, we also know in the other federal states, municipalities and cities. [[Call the SPÖ: Also the advantages not!]] The country of Austria is very diverse – thank God – and we have very different approaches and also very different challenges. There are regions that are affected by ageing, but there are also regions that are experiencing a massive move, so that we already know that there will be a lot more need for childcare in a few years, so I think it is all the more important that the countries and communities are on board, because their representatives are on the ground, they see what is necessary, and are involved in planning for their regions, and so it is important to do so. My speaking time is over again, there would be much more to say. I should nevertheless like to thank all those who are in agreement with this law today, and I am looking forward to much more that will come here.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17504	Next speaker: Mr Johann Weber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17525	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) But above all, very much esteemed Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! As the last speaker in this block, I'm easy to do, I can do it briefly and get together a little bit. We've already heard: Who believes that schooling is only happening in folk school, in a middle or higher school that is wrong. We all know that. It starts earlier, it starts already in the elementary area. However, I would like to take the opportunity to thank all the colleagues, teachers and teachers for the work they have done in this downstream area, after this elementary level. Thank you very much, however, to all kindergartens who lay the foundations for the future of the growing young generation in this area. They playfully lay the foundations so that a corresponding development for life becomes possible. The times are changing, the challenges are changing, and today we have to adapt the laws relating to training accordingly. We have also heard that there will be a change in the name. It will now also be used by the overhead educator. We have also heard that we have too few people in this area. We have heard that many do the training, but then ultimately do not work and work in this field. There is provision to be made accordingly. The Federal Minister – and thank you very much for this – has launched a corresponding initiative so that it will also be possible in the future to get cross-border beginners into this training in order to ultimately have more staff available in this area. Now I would like to speak to a second point, and I am particularly addressing the spectators at home: We are here in plenary today, the third day this week. I sit right in the back, up in the corner, and have the whole plenary constantly in front of me, and I really have to worry about the future of politics in Austria. [[Abg. Fireplaces: I've been doing them for a long time!]] The culture, which is partly lived and practiced here, makes me very, very thoughtful. [[Abg. Fireplaces: Yes!]] It may not take long, and we will also have the same problem in elementary education in politics: that we have a lack of people who are still ready to go into politics at all, because what is being lived here is anything but motivating. [[Abg. Fireplaces: Yes! Give full gas to the church, who said that? Who said it: Give full gas to the church!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] I do not wonder, therefore, that political insanity is rising in the population outside. [[Abg. Fireplaces: Give the church full gas, do you? Who said that?]] That's something we all have to do with it. [[Abg. Fireplaces: Who said to give full gas to the church!? Who said it? Who?]] We politicians are elected by the people. We are elected on time, during this time we have the task of working for the people, and we must fulfill this mission. [[Abg. Fireplaces: Yes!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] Every legislative period also has an end, we all know, and then there is the next choice. In school there is the witness, for us politicians there is the choice, and there you are confirmed or not confirmed. We should leave it to people outside, to the population, to form their own opinion freely. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] They shall measure the work of the politicians by their deeds, by what they do for the people, and I refuse all kinds of pre-condemnification, for you must also ask yourself: What if it turns out that everything is not the way it has always been said that all these accusations do not apply? [[Calls: They're free-invented! – Who has the chats...]] Then what? – To adapt or damage someone, that is something quite simple, but to bring back the reputation that has been destroyed, which is very, very difficult. In this sense: We are all chosen to work for Austria – and that is what counts, and I ask each individual to do so. We owe this to our wonderful state and the population of Austria! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17650	This debate is closed, as no one has made any mention of it. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. The vote will be taken at the end of the negotiations on the presentation of the Committee on Education, as agreed. [[17:18:16]] 7. Point Report by the Committee on Education, Research and Technology on the motion for a resolution from the Committee on Education, Research and Technology on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Martina Künsberg Sarre, Mag. Dr. Rudolf Tashner, Mag. Sibylle Hamann, Petra Fürderwinkler, Hermann Brückl, MA, colleagues on the analysis of school cancellations in the current school year (1075 d.b.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment 1920/A(E) by Mr Hermann Brückl, Mr MA, Mr Enrights, on no discrimination against students in domestic education (1076, e.g.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Education on the proposal from Members Hermann Brügl, MA, colleagues on the support of students in domestic and local education (1077, e.g.) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Education on motions for resolutions 1786/A(E) by Mr Mag. Martina Künsberg Sarre, colleagues on multi-professional support staff for schools (1078 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17742	This brings us to points 7 to 10 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Nurten Yılmaz is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17772	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! My speech relates to the motion for a resolution of all the parties represented in Parliament to the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Research to order an analysis of why so many children have been expelled from school. The number has tripled – more than 7,500 children – and this makes us all worried. We want to know the real motives and reasons, and I am glad that we can give this order or that you will receive this order. Most of the registered children are in the age of school. I'm very worried. The kids need each other, they learn from each other, and we can't watch that. It certainly also has to do with loss of trust, but I am looking forward to learning the true reasons. The good news this week is: There have been more than 500 children back to school – and we'll get the others too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17802	Next speaker: Mr Rudolf Taschner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17824	Madam President. High house! After Mrs Blimlinger gave a wonderful speech with a historical background, I also allow myself to find a quiet historical approach. I think of Ludwig Wittgenstein, who, in my opinion, is the greatest philosopher and thinker of the 20th century. Century, a model for me. Interestingly, he had about until his 14th birthday. Home lessons – it was of course a rich house – then he had to go to school. He could not go to a gymnasium – obviously he did not learn Latin in the home class – but had to go to Linz in a real school. He was also a bit strange in school, he immediately contacted his fellow students with you. By the way, I said: He fell through in German with Matura, the greatest language philosopher of the 20th century. 19th century! – So he was a somewhat strange person. He was dealing – so I wouldn't have to welcome Wittgenstein so much – not easy, but he was really a great thinker. Domestic education can be quite successful, it is quite possible that there is. There is no school compulsory, there is only compulsory education. This is, as it were, the freedom that the state gives to citizens, but of course it is a consideration: on the one hand, this freedom and on the other hand, child welfare. This, of course, makes us worried, because we know that many people are most likely to have the success of domestic teaching – that you become the greatest philosopher of the century – not as easily possible. We must draw the attention of the parents who choose to do so and tell them what risks they face. That's crucial. Of course, we also need to know why this is so, so the motivational research we are trying to do is very important – although it is, as has been said, a weighing; that should not be forgotten. It may be that some parents choose to do so because they have heard the words of the Neos Clubwoman that our education system is grossly bad. That's, of course, wrong! It's just as wrong as the statement that five would be a straight number. If someone claims to be five, it's just wrong and it doesn't matter. But if someone claims that the education system is grossly bad, he also assumes a responsibility with this false statement, namely the responsibility for the parents to believe that this school system is really bad. That's not it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shetty.]] The parents know that teachers, directors and the ministry are trying to ensure that the education system is very good. We also have good successes: with the apprentices up to the university professors. Our education system is good and not cave bad. [[Abg. Shetty: Significant!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eypeltauer.]] This is simply something that is not responsible for saying something wrong. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff.]] At the end of the day, I still allow myself to put the whole thing on a bigger stage, with regard to the Causa fine, because it is also said that it threatens a catilinar conspiracy. This is not only wrong, it is not responsible, it is also the democracy that we have to serve. I would like to stress that. Above all: Of those who say that, no one has the format of a Cicero.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17907	Mr Hermann Brückl has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17928	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It was said that § 11 compulsory schooling law reads: ‘In addition, the general education requirement can be fulfilled by participating in domestic education’. There has been a massive increase in the number of parents who have stopped their children to make this home education themselves over the past one and a half years. Professor Taschner, who can count one and one – you are the math professor, you can do it – he also knows what really is the reason for that. Of course, there are other reasons, but above all these are the measures of the Federal Government that have been put in the schools. The forced measures put in place by our children are certainly one of the main reasons why the number of students in home schooling is increasing. This number increases because the parents are afraid: They are afraid of their children, they are afraid of the future of their children, they are afraid of the survival of their children, they are afraid that their children suffer mental damage, and they are afraid of these government measures. [[Abg. Dead: This is what you say to them.]] Just a few numbers – in order not to leave that unfounded – that have been mentioned very often, but I can remind them again and again: The proportion of children with anxiety and fears of the future has increased by 220 percent in the course of the Corona crisis, the share of children with sleep disorders by 240 percent – due to government measures – and the proportion of children with suicidal thoughts by almost 60 percent. Something I have to do with this government: They took institutionally into account that children were left behind. They have been institutionally used to buy that children suffer these damage. This must be stopped. A total of more than 70 percent of all children and young people have been burdened by Corona. The risk of mental alertness in children and adolescents has increased from 18 to 31 percent. Depressions, nightmares, future fears, forced acts, drifting off in surreal computer worlds, mental unrest, all these are consequences of how we have dealt with our children over the past one and a half years. This is also one of the main reasons why parents have logged out of school and opted for home schooling. But we must not leave these children alone. We can't leave them behind. Instead of building up obstacles, instead of criminalizing these parents, discrediting them, instead of intensifying the measures, we need to help these parents and especially those children. High house! Students in the home and local classes are not second-class. Of the Greens today the sentence was to be heard: A child is a child. – Yes, these are our children, and we need to look around these children. It must be concluded that the Ministry of Education is dileting as a Ministry of Health and is only talking about masquerade pressure, test requirement, goggles, 2G, 2.5G, 3G or FFP2 masks. There is a need to think about normality in teaching, to think about educational residues, to educational gaps, to the consequences of school closures, also to think that these children will have disadvantages in later professional life; I am thinking, for example, of lower merits. The government so far lacks the will, and that must change. In this context, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is the only way that these children are now in domestic school. I can also say this: I probably wouldn't think of this to my children, but the legal possibility is there. We need to help these children, and that is why the measures in schools must end. The expiry date must be 26. October, the day of freedom. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[17:29]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18037	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Sibylle Hamann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18061	Yeah, I'm saying it all stone and clear. At the moment, I'm sorry for every child who's getting logged out of school. Why? – Not only for educational reasons, but also for children who are unregistered, they also have to abandon a social environment that parents have not chosen for them. In other words, they must refrain from worldly diversity, at an opportunity to deal with dissidents. They also lose a piece of independence from their own family. I believe that this is extremely important for adolescents, and taking away this opportunity is not good. This may be a bit better to deal with when it happens after mature consideration and when you have established a great alternative school with a sophisticated pedagogical concept and when you have a lot of time and can do so great teaching. However, if one logs out a child mainly because one wants to avoid the so-called corona measures at school, because the Test or reject vaccination for ideological reasons or because one wants to wipe out one of the governments, as one sometimes hears, these children are sorry to me; even if the reason lies in what Mr. Brückl has just said is that they are afraid. This fear is indeed being made, it is made by constantly speaking of forced measures and thus contributing to them. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP]] But why exactly this is so, we don't know, and that's why we're here now to order a study to investigate the causes of this rising number of school leavers. Knowing that is always important. We need to know the motives and causes so that we know how to reach these families, and that we also know how to bring these children back. I am always and in all contexts for visiting parents' work; of course this also applies to this situation. I am very much in favour of keeping in touch with the families, looking at them again and again, at the latest after a semester, how this works with the lessons at home. I also want the state to enter where there are signs that parallel societies arise, where there may even be signs that sect-like movements are at work, where laws are being violated or where child welfare is at risk. But I definitely want – no matter what reason the parents have taken this step – that the door to the school remains open to all children. According to media reports of these days, a few hundred children are already coming back – probably because the parents have introduced home lessons more easily than he is, because they are overwhelmed, or simply because the children complain and squeak because they miss school and their friends. In the direction of all these children, we want and will stretch out our hands and we will be glad when they are back. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18106	Next speaker: Mrs Martina Künsberg Sarre. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18128	Madam President. Minister! High house! Mr. Taschner, you really don't make it easy for me. With regard to this request, I have to tell you something about our school system now. So if we always get to the middle of international studies, if we know that for 20 years between 20 and 25 percent of 15-year-olds who come out of compulsory school – after nine years – can't read meaningfully, then even you have to admit that in the education system something doesn't work as well as you might believe it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Tashner: The word cave bad does not justify it anyway!]] But now I would like to take advantage of my speaking time to thank, on the one hand, the teachers of all the political groups for their good cooperation in this request, which has been made on the NEOS initiative. I think it's important that we find out why children are logged out: Be it because parents lack innovative school concepts, teaching and learning methods, or because they don't like the corona measures, or because they fear that their children will be infected in school? So we're speculating all the time, and it's important that there's a little light coming into the dark now. As we see, the first school returnees come back to their classes. That's good. For example, the city of Vienna – the other federal states may follow this example – has been looking for a conversation with all families, and now more than 350 children are back in their classes. I think that's a very, very good way. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This also shows that it is important that, in addition to this motivation study, which we will take, we should also take other measures – like looking for the conversation – before the children go into the home schooling. It's about the children who are in the focus, they have to go well and they have to get the best possible education. Thank you very much for the cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18176	Mrs Gertraud Salzmann is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18198	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! But also dear spectators at home – I hope that some of these yet interesting educational debates will follow! Last year, ladies and gentlemen, we have done everything we can to keep the students in attendance for as long as possible. With the regular and mandatory tests, Mr. Minister, arranged by your ministry under your leadership, and the important hygiene measures, we were able to provide the pupils with 8 years of age. He returned to the school in February, gradually getting out of the Distancelearning and into the schools. Austria has taken a real pioneering role in Europe under your leadership. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We have seen in the weeks of distance learning, which were extremely stressful for everyone – teachers, students, parents – we know, how important school is. And yes, we have a very good school system, dear Martina Künsberg Sarre from NEOS, and where it is to continue to work, we will also work together. We don't talk all right, we know where it's cracking, and we have to do that too, that's clear. But the distance learning has shown, school is an important place of learning, and school is much more: School is a place of social life that our children need very urgently. Empathy, team ability, conflict resolution, the development of personality, the role behaviour, all this is learned in a group of equal agers. More than 7 500 children are registered from school this year. This does us in here, I think, all hurt, because it is important for every single child to go to school. 7 500 children, four times as many as in the years before, this current increase in withdrawal rates is hardly comprehensible to me rationally. I would really like to suggest to all of you here, especially the colleagues from the FPÖ: We don't get on with panic. I think it is essential to put the children in fear of going to school and also to give them the pleasure of visiting school. Mr Brügl – I do not see him now – you are rightly talking about the leftovers. Yes, we should pick them up, but please in the classroom, that's important. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] Domestic education, ladies and gentlemen, is a very old right, it goes back to the basic state law of 1867 and is governed by compulsory schooling law. But how? – compulsory education can also be met by domestic teaching, but there is a clear limitation. The compulsory education may be carried out by domestic education if ‘the teaching of that person at a [...] school is at least equivalent’. And then most parents overestimate what their own competence, but probably also their strength, ladies and gentlemen. I know about the good quality that is done in class. I know the great commitment of the educators, who go far beyond teaching. Mr Fässmann, you have also taken first steps. There are consultations with parents, not only in Vienna. I know that they are also available in Salzburg and other federal states. Therefore, a number of parents were convinced to send the students to school. There will also be feedback on the level of learning in the semester, and for the examinations to be carried out at the end, there will be fixed schools in the future and thus no longer exam tourism in other federal states. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I expressly welcome the motion for a resolution which we have tabled here in great unity. Mr Fässmann, we ask you to analyse the reasons and causes for these school cancellations. We will examine how we can also bring in this equality – in line with the teaching – and there is a need for clear criteria in this regard. I and many here, as I see – and this is the nice thing with us in the teaching committee – really is about protecting the children. Finally, let me refer to my Pink Ribbon – Madam President Bures, you sit behind me, you made these Pink Ribbons available to us yesterday – and say: Ladies and gentlemen, please go to the precautionary examination! Early detection is the best and most important step in cancer therapy! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18249	The next speaker was Mr Klaus Köchlzu. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18274	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In my opinion, home teaching will always be interesting if it doesn't work 100% in the school system – I can say that from my experience – because all children have a right to education, to the best education, no matter what position parent has, whether this is a diplomat child or a child from a fine food seller – that must be quite the same. I think that's the way it is in the health field: Minister Stöger then introduced the free gears for children, and that had a good reason: Many parents could not afford such a thing in our health system. Today it is so that all get the same gears paid, and that is a great advantage. And it must also be in school. It can only help the children if they get the best training. Mr Minister, if this Federal Government invests 1 euro in education, then this brings in the final effect, of which I am convinced, 14 to 15 euros in value added. Therefore, it is important for the parents that their child can go to a full day school that parents have the opportunity to leave her child at home – if diplomats want to teach her child in a place that can cost a lot – but the child of the seller must have the same possibilities, because not always the children of diplomats have failed than the children of a fine food seller. The, uh... I think we have to do it. Children must have the appropriate conditions. Our goal as a SPÖ is to say: It must be so that when the child is finished in school, it doesn't have to take the school bag with you anymore. That would be, I think, the decisive. Every child should get funding lessons where it is necessary; if it is sporty, even in the field of sports, please read it, then there, so should it go. I believe that the policy of the EIA is simply too conservative in this regard. The The same is true of the apprentices – I as an apprentice speaker keep looking for it: Let's do something in vocational schools! Let's see that the apprentices go to the vocational school for one and a half or two days, that they get a top education there – English, funding lessons, everything these young people need – we spend money on training places, on vocational schools, for teaching workshops! Then, I think, this will go better, then unemployment will not be so much, and well-trained children are guarantees that we all get a pension once.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18316	Next speaker: Mrs Romana Deckenbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18337	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Seers! I invite you all to think back to your own schooling for a short moment. We all have had more or less good experiences in school. My dear colleague, Prof. Taschner, is now listening: My experience with mathematics was not good now, but I also know that school is more than learning. School is also a place of innovation, of creativity, is a place where conflicts and challenges are also addressed, and is also a place where friendships are often made for the whole life. How significant social contacts are can be read in today’s “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten”, where it is said that a 13-year-old student returned to school after four weeks of domestic school because his parents were worried about him. He got quieter and quieter and more and more retreated. He missed his friends too. For many children and young people, it has once again been shown in the crisis how important the teaching of presence is. Again and again, students have communicated how much they look forward to their school. Federal Minister Fässmann has put in place all the necessary measures to make it possible to teach the presence again. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] However, our compulsory schooling law also provides the option of enabling children to have a home education or a private school education without public law. Yeah, that might be the right way for many. At the beginning of the school year 2021/22 it was, we have already heard it, more than 7,500 students who were registered from the school. Austria, I think, has about a million pupils, and therefore, I think, one can speak of a temporary phenomenon, not of a mass phenomenon, but of a temporary phenomenon, as the Federal Minister has also called it. Recent figures show that at the moment we have a large number of returnees. The causes of the cancellations are diverse. Each of us, including you, Mr Brückl of the FPÖ, can only make assumptions in this regard. [[Abg. Hauser: No! Go on the net!]] All the more important it is to explore the reasons. At the last meeting of the Teaching Committee, we agreed on an all-party proposal, which is still in the vote today, to request the Federal Ministry of Education, Science and Research to carry out an analysis of the reasons for the school cancellations. Finally, allow me to mention one more: What all participants in school life do daily for our children at all Austrian locations and in all school types is great, and I would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18380	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18401	Madam President. Estimated Minister! High house! I am glad that today I have the opportunity to address the Minister directly. We are often of different opinions, but it is, I believe, mutual respect. Mr. Fässmann, you are a scientist, and it is precisely with you that you can assume that you make scientifically sound decisions, accept science and also deal with science. [[Abg. Hörl: And Professor!]] That's what I'm going to assume, and I know you're doing it. That's why I'm very surprised that you're not making decisions based on facts. Of course, the 7 500 school leavers can be seen in connection with the coronaz force measures. Ladies and gentlemen, look into the net, that's what it is! The permanence of testing, the obligation of masks and now also the impurity of vaccination, Mr. Minister, which is carried out directly and indirectly in schools, including the folk schools, contribute to the fact that parents say: We're not holding this pressure anymore! Don't believe that the home lessons for parents are the most pleasant! I think parents who take their children out of school to avoid precisely these forced measures do incredible – hat off in front of these parents! – because they need to protect their children. That is why Mr Brückl has also made a request to support these children and these parents or to frighten them. Well, please, to the facts – I argue with the figures of the ages, with really official numbers that you can read or look at at at at any time –: [[The speaker places a table entitled “Death after Age in Austria” and a graphic on the speaker’s desk.]] Mr. Minister, the Ages took place on 30. September, a few days ago, the statistics were published: ‘Death cases by age in Austria’. In the age group up to five years old, Minister, thank God no one child died of Corona. In the age group five to 14 years old, there are three children, and these three children had severe prediseases. In total, this shows the picture, 64 people in Austria died in Corona – of 11 000 – who were under 45 years of age. What does that mean? – Covid poses no real danger to younger people. Vaccines and their side effects are much more dangerous, including for children. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Go to Next File (HINT: for Focus)]] Mr Minister, I can ask you: How many children in the age group between three and twelve died on the flu in the 2017/2018 flu season, this half year? I know it's not a question hour, and you should actually assume you know that. I tell you, Minister. [[‘Grippetote’ signposted to ‘Covid-19 deaths’ in children in Austria’]] In the age group between three and twelve years, nine children died on the flu in the 2017/2018 flu season – three times more than in the end of the year with Corona. That's supposed to make you think. What is it like now? Because the number of dead by flu is three times as high to schools in the coming winter because not every child has a flu vaccination? [[New call for tender Go to Next File (HINT: for Focus)]] You really have to look at these numbers. [[Abg. Kirchbaumer: I haven't heard such a nonsense for a long time!]] You have to see that according to these statistics, the flu is much more dangerous, as three times as many children have died of flu than Covid. [[Interlocutors Hamann and Stögmüller.]] Mr Minister, I gather once again the absurdity of forced vaccinations in schools and especially in folk school children: In Austria, there are 1.3 million children under 15 years of age. In the last quarter of the year, I have already told you that three children died of Covid-19. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] The percentage of covid deaths in this age group is 0.00023 percent. [[New call of the abg. Kirchbaumer.]] The National Vaccination Body has authorised the vaccination of children over 12 years of age because Biontech/Pfizer has conducted a study on the authorisation of the vaccine for 12 to 15 years of age. This study included only 1,131 participants, and 86 percent of them received vaccinations. 0.4% had serious adverse events – 0.4%! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] On the other hand, the proportion of children who died of Covid-19 is 0.00023 percent. The conclusion is therefore: Please stop putting pressure on children and parents with the forced vaccination. Look at the science and act In the future, please be scientifically based so that the school cancellations of children go back. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18515	Next speaker: Mr Manfred Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18537	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to reply to Mr Hauser as he calls into question the vaccinations and testing of children. I give a brief example from my community: Three children were sick last year before Christmas. [[Abg. Hauser: You should not tell stories, look at science!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Salzmann.]] After that, five large families were seriously ill and partly even had to go to the hospital. – Unfortunately, in practice, this is a little different than you always represent it with the numbers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hauser:... the statistics of the Ages!]] Previously, we heard in the discussion that the schools were grossly bad – that is what Mrs Beate Meinl-Reisinger said. That's not the case. It is true that the schools are always good only when the teachers are motivated. I was a teacher myself for 18 years and I can say: If you hear from politicians that our school system is supposed to be so bad, it really does not motivate you. It always applies to the persons acting on the spot. [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and to the Deputies of Götze and Litschauer.]] Now for home schooling: Yes, the school is the place of education, where on the one hand expertise is taught but on the other hand, of course, social skills are also learned. Social skills – learning to resolve conflicts and how to behave in the group, learning to stand up and getting stuck back once more, celebrating successes together and learning to accept defeats together – are competences that shape young people for life. Knowledge of the subject – which has been proven by studies – is passing away, especially if one does not frequently recall it, but these basic skills are very essential, and therefore there is a great responsibility for teachers in this field. And that they perceive it, I would like to thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On this basis I also see home school very critical, I have to say. Of course, the parents, the students and the teachers see this as well; especially those parents who now bring their children back to school. The numbers of returnees speak for themselves, and the anonymous survey that has been carried out also says that the parents felt overwhelmed. That is, I think, really an essential reason. I think this is a temporary situation. Of course, all of us are aware that the Corona situation is demanding everything for those involved in the school system – the parents, the teachers, the children – but the arrangements have to be just like that at the moment. Since the beginning of the school year, you can see how many children – even in my own environment – could be researched, thus preventing the infection of other students and other families. That makes sense, Mr. Hauser. Very briefly on the FPÖ's applications, which are intended to attract home schooling and eliminate the disadvantages: There are already support for home schooling from the Ministry. I only want to remember that, because of the lack of time with the same age students, the lack of social skills, of course, has a very, very negative impact on the development of children. In this sense, I thank all the teachers who put up with these efforts, protect our children and make great efforts for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18611	Mr Heinz Fässmann has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18632	I had to speak, because you have, of course, packed me with my honor in relation to a fact-based policy measure. Mr Hauser, I know that we are not meeting on this point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] However, I try and tell you my motives why we have done so – and I believe that we have done reasonable things about schools. Mrs Salzmann mentioned that, of course, measures such as testing also allowed us to hold much more presenceal education than was the case in other comparable countries. And since we had presence lessons, we could also return to the students something like a time and meaning structure. Getting up in the early morning, going to school, dealing with others – that's a corset, sometimes you don't want it, but it's extremely important for the mental health of the children. As far as the motives are concerned, I wouldn't be so quick. It is the essence of an analysis that you should wait for what comes out at the end of the analysis. They say these are so-called forced measures. – I come in touch with parents and some say it’s exactly the opposite, they say: It's too few measures, I'm afraid my children are infecting! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] – If we wait for what comes out, then we can take the further steps. In one point you are certainly right: Covid is that God is grateful, not a disease that is usually difficult for children and young people. Nevertheless, there are such cases, there are symptoms of disease and there are Long Covid. This also concerns children and young people. But the essential thing is that when children are infected, they can infect others. [[Abg. Hauser: Mr Minister, there are also vaccines! You know that!]] I have therefore always said: If the parents were all vaccinated like a shield around the children, that would be a much smaller problem. [[Abg. Hauser: Also vaccines can infect!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Salzmann.]] Mr. Hauser, they're not. You know very well that the vaccination rate in the years of the over 35, 45-year-olds is out of place. If we had a higher quota there, I would be much calmer. Her last point was the history of forced vaccination. I've never talked about a forced vaccination, I've always said: The vaccination is an option available to the parents. It is an option following a long test procedure, which clearly showed that the benefits are greater than the vaccination risks, otherwise neither the EMA nor the national vaccination body would agree. In the National Vaccination Body, really smart minds I trust. They remember that the Austrian society of pediatricians also confirmed this, and in the end said: After considering all the facts, we would recommend that parents have their children vaccinated – advise, not a vaccination obligation, and that by the Austrian society of pediatricians. I can only say: No comment!, is still necessary; there is a very clear judgment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18700	Next speaker: Mr Yannick Shetty. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18721	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing today, among other things, a rejected request from my colleague, Künsberg Sarre. By the way, I believe that he was rejected by mistake that he should have been postponed, but it is also part of the joys of the opposition that one can also rejoice over such a thing. The aim of this application was to increase support staff in schools, i.e. more school psychologists, more social workers, more school doctors. The fact that the young people, i.e. pupils, have suffered especially under the corona rules of the Federal Government, has probably also arrived at the Federal Government. If at least now, immediately after or at the end of the corona crisis, you would have taken over money for mental health – and not only the ridiculous 8 million euros that are now in the budget – and that would have been gradually reduced from me if there were no more triage in the childhood and youth psychiatric system, if no more 16 percent of the 14 to 18-year-olds are at risk of suicide or if no longer every fifth youth has eating disorders, you would have been able to correct your guilt towards children and young people last year. But no, nothing like that happens! Also at the educators and educators, crisis management, which is still much more intensive in schools than anywhere else, does not go by without a trace. They cannot handle and should not have to handle the various tasks alone. There is a division of work in each good company, and it is precisely this that the request has been made to relieve the educators in order to release them for their core task, namely for the education contract. Before someone from the ÖVP comes up in a reflective way with this Viennabashing – so the speech machines for these three plenary days seem to have been somehow fed – and thinks that we could do all of this in Vienna: Yes, in Vienna we do that! In Vienna we do this, and I am convinced that it is really better! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have increased the number of social workers by 20 percent. Responsible for this: Education City Council Christoph Wiederkeer. You just have to set the right priorities, but the youth has unfortunately never been a priority of this federal government.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18769	No one has been reported in this debate, so it is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I refer the vote to the conclusion of the negotiations on the presentation of the teaching committee. [[18:03:21]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Education on the proposal from the European Parliament and the Council to the Council (Doc. Dr. Maria Theresia Niss, MBA, Mag. Sibylle Hamann, Mag. Martina Künsberg Sarre, colleagues on the reduction of gender stereotypes in work and teaching materials, in particular school books, and on the Amendment 1603/A(E) by Mr Mag. Martina Künsberg Sarre, colleagues on gender-sensitive evaluation of learning and teaching materials (1079 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18822	We're on the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mrs Niss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18849	Madam President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! Last night in the evening I checked my daughter's house practice, and I found the exercise or sentence in the German book: Anna wants to help her mother cook. She asks: Are your hands also very clean? – And in another book I found the sentences: Franz wants to go football with his friends. It'll be an exciting afternoon. – Now you can ask yourself: What's the problem? – The problem is that we don't realize how much the role images that we should actually qualify as obsolete are still anchored in our minds. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] You can now say girls like to cook, they like unicorns, they like princess. I have no objection either that they like princess, but I have something against the fact that the princess are mostly weak and that they are saved from strong princes, because this simply cannot be good for self-confidence and belief in their own strength. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] Austria is a country where role images and stereotypes are still particularly strongly anchored in the heads. This begins in the baby age and of course also affects the self-image. I've set myself the goal of changing that. I know this is a mammoth task, because of course these role models cannot be changed simply because they are strongly anchored in our minds, but I would like to make my contribution to it, because I find this social image to be very unfair. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] We have to show, through advance and role models, that women can also make their way in technology, that they have better jobs and that they also have better income opportunities. Now I can't prescribe children's books, but also films and CDs, what they or whom they make their heroes or what properties they attribute to boys and girls, because there is the free market and – you know me – I like it, but I can do it with school books, because there I can specify content and criteria. It is not only necessary for us to specify content in the curriculums, but also to provide criteria for how such school books should be designed. Now we have the opportunity for new expert committees to be set up next year. The curriculum is being made new, and we also need new commissions to do so. It is essential that gender sensitivity is valued. A second point is the curriculum itself. It is important that we take, for example, the typical role models and gender stereotypes in the professional orientation. Why don't I show that there are technicians, astronomers, astronauts, for example, there are machine builders or on the other hand, that there are sick brothers, for example, if you want to say so, or folk school teachers. It is essential that we really pay more attention to it. If we then have the school books and curriculums, then of course we need to pay attention to the fact that teachers are trained accordingly, for, ladies and gentlemen, that boys are automatically attributed to mathematics and girls are not deliberately made to languages, but that is quite subconscious. That is why, in education and training, we really need to be careful that this is made aware and that we will be careful in the future. Steter drop hollows the stone! I am convinced that with this request, with this request, or with this mandate to the Minister of State, we can help to change the role models, which leads to greater equal opportunities. Apart from the content, ladies and gentlemen, I also like the process very well. I really want to thank myself very, very cordially with my colleagues, not only Sibylle Hamann, but above all also Martina Künsberg and also at the SPÖ. We have, together, – if it remains the same as in the committee, the FPÖ does not go along, but that does not really surprise me under the leadership of Herbert Kickl – a really good request. We have shown that one can also go in one direction together. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that what we have heard in the last three days about indifferent and non-conscientious statements and animosities, I do not like: It is not good for the image of Parliament, it is not good for the country, and it is not good for our future and especially not for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18916	Mrs Nurten Yılmaz will speak next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18940	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I want to start my speech with a mystery: Father and son are driving in the car. You have an accident. The father dies immediately, the Bub is brought to the AKH with serious injuries. The surgery is prepared when the chief surgeon appears and says: I can't operate, that's my son! – The question: In what relationship are the surgeon and the child in? – The answer is: The surgeon is the mother. This mystery clearly shows: Language creates awareness. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oh, my God.]] It creates images in our heads and reproduces gender roles. When you hear the word surgeon, you think of a man in the surgery kit. This phenomenon appears not only in this example, ladies and gentlemen, but also in the school books wherever gender roles prevail. Sexism is usually found between the lines: Women care about the care and the household, men repair things, girls are bad in mathematics and boys don't like reading, girls are quiet, boys are loud and like football – I don't understand that at all. School books in many cases reflect reality. There are still classic men's professions and classic women's professions, mostly poorly paid. If we want to overcome these gender roles, schoolbooks play an important role, because with the pictures from school you are not born, but you learn them. Schoolbooks can counteract old patterns because they contribute a significant part to what children later feel normal. Ladies and gentlemen, we are a diverse country, we have different origins, genders, different languages, and we all love different. Variety is one of our everyday lives and is normal. Let's get this variety into our schoolbooks! We support this. The next time I would ask the candidates of the government parties to also contact the Social Democrats – our phone number you have – because this request is a wish of the heart of all of us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18983	Next speaker: Mrs Sibylle Hamann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19010	Madam President! Mr. Federal Minister! We have a wonderful common request here – another one – which shows me once again very well what a constructive climate in the field of education and also in this committee exists. Sometimes that doesn't fit me quite in with the somewhat aggressive rhetoric that is being maintained here in the plenary, but probably that's necessary for the gallery. I would definitely like to receive this constructive kind of cooperation in committee. This is about gender stereotype, even one of my favorite topics on which we have now made this joint request. Gender stereotypes are everywhere: in everyday life, in working life, here in plenary, in the media, at work and, of course, in school and in school books. They are harmful for many, many reasons, especially because they prevent children from exploiting their individual talents and preferences and all their potential. They push a child into roles and behaviors that may not lie to him at all, and they prevent girls from, for example, living up to their talent as an auto mechanic, and burgers, their talent in care professions – with which we would be again on the topic of elementary pedagogy, which we have been to this day. That is, you can say in general: Gender stereotypes make individuals unhappy, and they can waste overall resources. That's a change. Whatever school can do to change that, it should and must do. There is now a window of possibilities open up: The new curriculums for which there will be a lot of new teaching materials will be developed, books as well as web-based content. This request therefore comes at the right time. We want to achieve that gender relationships and gender stereotypes are addressed in lessons, the topic is anchored in educational education, stereotypes are avoided in teaching materials, and there is also sufficient competence in the assessment committees. With this we make the world a little more gender-friendly and better, and we can all be happy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19043	Mrs Martina Künsberg Sarre is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19064	Madam President. Minister! Yes, I too am pleased with this request, to which almost all parties can agree. In my opinion, this is a very, very important request. Why he is important illustrates the following example that a mother wrote to me from the 7th century. Class Gymnasium – I quote –: In my daughter's English lessons, the textbook asked for typical women and men sports, so my daughter asked what year the book was from and then a feminism debate broke off the fence. A boy said: Very simple, chess and kickboxes are typical men's sports, in which one must be intelligent, with the other strong. Another asked what she had, not even allowed women to choose 100 years ago, we should be glad that we can do what we can anyway. - Quote. If we want talks and attitudes to change in almost full-year-olds, we must start early and implement this request as quickly as possible. Mr Minister, I am delighted when you start very quickly, because the examples we have heard are simply really underground, and we should stop thinking in such roles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19094	No one is reporting on this, and that is what I am closing this debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. [[18:16:10]] Vote on agenda items 6 to 11
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19118	We shall now proceed to the votes. But I ask the clubs whether this is possible right now. – Well, then I'll do that, and we'll come to the votes. Agenda item 6: Draft federal law amending the Federal Law on the Principles relating to the professional employment requirements for kindergartens, including the title and entry into 1042 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to the draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Third reading? The draft law was adopted unanimously at third reading. Vote on item 7 of the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1075 of the Supplements on 'Analysis of school leaves in the current school year'. Who's calling for it? – This too is unanimously adopted. [[207/E]] Vote on agenda item 8: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 1076 of the supplements. Whoever is in favour of this consideration, I ask him for a sign of approval. – The report has been largely taken note of. Debates of the European Parliament – the end of Corona measures in the field of education.’ Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. Agenda item 9: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 1077 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – This has been noted by the majority. Agenda item 10: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 1078 of the supplements. Who is expressing his support for this note? – This has been noted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 11, the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1079 of the Supplements on ‘Degrading gender stereotypes in work and teaching materials, in particular school books’. Who's calling for it? – This is accepted by a majority. (208/E) [[18:19:01]] 12. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (1041, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG between the federal government and the state of Tyrol on the financing of the Tirol Central Regional Railway, section Rum (1095 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19252	Now we reach the 12th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I welcome Mrs Bundesminister Geessler to the House and give Mr Hermann Weratschnig the floor as the first speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19280	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Regional Railway Innsbruck: It is about tram, in the wider sense of regional railways, railway development, subway – a complex topic of responsibilities and conditions of support. The present 15a agreement creates clarity, allows the possibility of supporting regional railways on sections of the road as tramway, i.e., in contrast to full railways in road traffic, running along the federal side. There is an open-ended budget, which is used accordingly. I believe that for the regions, for the agglomerations, the decision here and today on the 15a agreement is very important. We already had the Linz Regional Railway as a theme here in the plenary session – total costs: 26 million euros – we know the current discussion in Graz about a project volume of 48 million euros, and there are also discussions and plans to the Greater Vienna area, where, I think, it is very important to continue thinking about Vienna towards Lower Austria in the future and to expand the railway infrastructure, the tram infrastructure accordingly. Today we have the 15a agreement on the Regional Railway Innsbruck, between Innsbruck and Rum in the direction of Hall as a tramway. There is a total cost of 36 million euros. Of these, 45 percent of the Federal Government's financial contribution is planned, approximately 16 million euros. The section of the regional railway towards Völs, that is, in the other direction, carried out as a full railway, is subject to the Privatbahngesetz. This also applies to the funds. You have to imagine: Especially for the Greater Innsbruck area, there is now an essential contribution to the expansion of public transport. There is a catchment area of about 110,000 counterparts, commuting movements in this area, and the current infrastructure is used. With the new infrastructure there is the possibility that utilization will increase by 45 to 50 percent. Total: The regional railways in Austria are on track if you want to call it that way. I am particularly grateful to Minister Leonore Geessler, but I also thank the regional authorities, the IVB, the city of Innsbruck, the governments, that of Mayor Willi and his councillor Uschi Schwarzl, but also the previous government in Innsbruck with mayor Oppitz- Plörer and Deputy Mayor Sonja Pitscheider. So many have worked on it, there have been a lot of people involved. Citizens' participation has worked very well. It is an essential contribution to increasing the share of public transport in modal split in Austria – 16 percent – from 2018 onwards, with a view to the future, to 2040, to 25 percent. In this sense: Mobility in all diversity! Ladies and gentlemen, I am seeking broad approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19331	Mr Alois Stöger, you are speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19352	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! At the beginning of the term of office of this government, I said that the transport chapter is the best that the Federal Government has brought us, and I do not want to congratulate the Federal Minister today for setting the right signal with the 1-2-3 air ticket, namely to strengthen the environmentally friendly rail. The 15a agreement that we have agreed together today is a strengthening in this direction and is also in line with responsibility in Tyrol. There, the citizens are firmly opposed to the increasing movement of goods. This makes this decision to expand the rails, to accommodate them in daily life, and to support the federal government correctly. This should not only be so in Tyrol, but it should also be so in the other federal states. We need to strengthen the rails in all the conurbations. Mrs. Federal Minister! Of course, we will also cross the blades a few times in the budget. When I read through, I have also seen that there are a few good approaches, but I am very sad that you have now thought about the further expansion of the track with a little less money – and a little less money. We need to look even more closely at that. I believe that if we – and this is the objective of social democracy – want to free traffic from CO2, then there must be an expansion of the rails, and we now have to do a lot more and also expand them. It's not just about the infrastructure. We also need to maintain a clock frequency that people accept. Everything in the infrastructure, which is not under a half hour cycle between 5 and 24 hours, is simply too little. It's got to be on the weekend. In this sense, I thank you for the use for the rail. There is still a lot to be done. The electrification of the railway is urgently necessary, and I say: not only in Tyrol, but also in all the other federal states. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19393	Next speaker: Mr Christian Hafenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19414	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Today, in the course of our urgent request, we have seen that we need action in the area of transport. It was also not possible to get to Parliament on time because of the traffic situation. I'm leading Back on that you, unfortunately, contribute to God's doing so with the stop of road construction. So I would really like you to remember that in your transport policy, you also do not forget the drivers and the commuters and also note that it is not yet so well ordered to expand public transport throughout Austria that everyone can really rely on public transport. That is why from my point of view it is important not to make the commuters and the people in the country dependent on the car into second-class citizens. Mrs. Federal Minister! We have also talked about it several times, also in the committees: I am truly critical of the very, very large number of road construction projects, which would be important for Austria and for the development of rural areas, from my point of view. I would like to draw your attention to the situation at S 34, including a request that I will make. Summary only: The S 34 is a highway between Sankt Pölten and Wilhelmsburg with an option to extend to Traisen, which would be very, very important for the inhabitants of the Traisental, especially because Pendler, who travel to Sankt Pölten, could definitely save a lot of time. On the other hand, the ring around Sankt Pölten, if it were exported, would deduct much traffic from the capital of the country accordingly. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would therefore like to remind you once again of the promise given to citizens in this area. This is a discourse that has now been conducted for almost 50 years, so that it comes to this highway. I would like to appeal once again to your reason and ask that you do not delay this road construction to which the EIA has already been completed – the approval process would actually be done – that you do not stand in the way of this project and ensure rapid implementation. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[18:29]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19536	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Hermann Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19566	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! For me, as a Tyrolean MP, today is a happy day because it succeeds in converting the tram in Innsbruck into a regional railway. There's a clear schedule. The connection between Innsbruck and Rum is currently under construction, and later on the whole is extended towards Völs. Thank you for that. There is this 15a agreement – Mr Weratschnig has already implemented it – which is about 45 percent being financed by the federal government and 55 percent remaining as a residual funding. I would like to thank the Federal Minister for this. What's the goal? – To the east and west of Innsbruck, in the morning hours in shuttle traffic, we have quite bottlenecks. We have further bottlenecks regarding the two railway stations, the central station and the Westbahnhof. With this new infrastructure, which has been developed and is under construction, it will succeed in eliminating these neural traffic jams. It is important that we boost public passenger transport, and with an attractive railway, with an attractive regional railway, this should be possible. In conjunction with public transport and air-conditioning tickets, there should also be an incentive for more people to change and more new and better organised shuttle transport. Overall, it is a positive development, from an environmental point of view a project that can be absolutely supported. Pendlers can come to their workplace more favourable, environmentally friendly and faster. – In this sense: Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19603	Next speaker: Mr Johannes Margreiter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19624	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! All-caught viewers! Who should we thank? . I think that, first and foremost, it is a matter of ensuring that taxpayers and taxpayers are assured that we are taking a decision here, which will take a lot of money – taxpayers' money – in which we can see in agreement, as we have not always found in today's debates, that it is a good investment. The situation between Hall and Innsbruck in the Tyrolean Central Area is really marked by the fact that there is a significant volume of traffic, which is made difficult by the fact that one of Austria's most frequent motorways is located on the Inntal A 12 motorway at the transition to the A 13, where there is also a huge volume of transit. It is all the more important that one now invests in this area, that one really – almost I would say, as a best practice example – creates a small hub in Rum, where it is possible to switch from the ÖBB to the regional railway, from the IVB bus lines to the regional railway or to the IVB, where it will also be possible to change traffic participants in the field of active mobility, especially in the field of active mobility. Bikers to operate so that it is attractive to return the last mile by bike. This construction project at the new station in Rum also includes generous bicycle storage facilities. What it will still need – which will certainly show the future very quickly – is also a park-and-ride offer for those commuters who travel the famous first or last mile – depending on how you see it – with the private car. For these too, this hub could be a very good offer to change to the public system. That's still ahead. Overall, however, this is really a very nice project. It is very gratifying that it has succeeded in voting this funding. The completion is at the end of 2022. I very much hope, Mrs Federal Minister, that if we are still in office, we will meet there at the opening ceremony. I'd be very happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19667	The Federal Minister has now made a statement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19688	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values of spectators who may still be pursuing this debate! I am really pleased about the very concrete project that we are, as I hope, sending on with your broad support today, because it is a concrete improvement for the commuters in Tyrol, because it is a concrete investment in public transport and because it fulfils a part of the promise we have made in the government programme, namely, the environmentally sound forms of mobility in regional railways, in particular with cross-city, and to bring it on the way. It has been said a lot, so I will be very brief and only carry out this concrete example, why it makes sense to question some of the things that one has always done for decades, which have always been the same, for 50 years, as one has always done, just now, because, from today's point of view, they may not be so meaningful in terms of economics and in general. This 15a agreement is based on a 15a agreement with the Linz Regional City Railway, which we set up in July in the plenary session, the second one that does not end a very optimal state of the economy. Until this year, we had the situation that the federal government could only finance rail projects in the federal states and municipalities through the way of private railway financing, i.e. as full railways – Mr. Weratschnig did it before – but could not co-finance the trams. This has led to the situation that a bit of a counterproductive incentive to go into full-way development, even if a tram would have been more economical and efficient, simply suitable for the region. And we are now ending this state with these 15a agreements with the new opportunity to also promote tram projects and city-border projects. I am therefore pleased that we are taking the next step with this concrete agreement – the first step was Linz, the next step is Innsbruck. At the total cost of 36 million euros, the Federal Government grants a subsidy of 45 percent, which is about 16 million euros. This is precisely the case in the light of the continuing to increase passenger traffic an important and necessary investment in order to further increase the market share in public transport and regional transport, also along the principles we have given ourselves in the mobility master plan. That is why I would like to thank all those who have been working on this project for many years now so that this project can be approved. I would be pleased to have a broad agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19733	Mr Klaus Köchlzu is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19758	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! It has already been said a lot about this project, but not yet by a Carinthian Member. I think it's a great story. This is exactly the objective that we should have in central areas, namely the development of an alternative. For me as a learned railer, it is also quite, very important. I can only congratulate you on this and hope that the construction project will ultimately also be a very great success. However, I can use one more minute of my speaking time, Mrs Minister, to ask you for something. At S 37 in Carinthia, a resolution has been adopted by the state government. I would like to underline this and ask you to implement this project. It's all planned. Landesrat Gruber von der ÖVP has already negotiated with the Boards of Asfinag that the implementation can come. That would only have to be sent on the journey. In order to extend the S 37, a status report on the evaluation procedures would be submitted. I am looking for you to start the talks with the country of Carinthia and that the measures will then be implemented and not unduly delayed. The same applies to the Wernberg connection. I was now 14 years in the Kärntner Landtag, and it has always been a theme for Wernberg and the surrounding area to get a motorway exit from the South Railway. That, I think, belongs to implementation. As a Member of the Carinthian, I believe, on behalf of all the Carinthian Members, I would ask you to address this.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19791	Mr Gerald Hauser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19812	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! High house! We from the Freedom Party are also happy to support the Regionalbahn Innsbruck–Rum project. Just as directly and directly affected, who travels twice a week from East Tyrol to Nordtirol, to Innsbruck, I know how important the extension of the route is. The streets are incredibly full. There are now 110 000 commuters commuting daily between Innsbruck and Rum. It is good that we will solve this problem now and open the regional railway by 2023. But we have more construction sites. You know, we've got ever-increasing transit traffic on the Brenner axle. Truck transit is rising and increased by 7.44 percent in the third quarter compared to the previous quarters compared to the previous maximum figures. That's really a huge problem. If you know that the Brenner Base Tunnel may only be opened in 2030, you really have to see that you can finally relieve the transited population on this route. Now I'm making my fourth start today and I'm saying, Please, let's do this shit and do it right, we'll clean up the Luegbrücke when it's necessary, but we'll build the tunnel! Let's do the tunnel! This is the wish of the affected population. I do not understand at all that there is no unanimous decision-making here in this House, especially as the proposal – the text is completely harmless – for example, wants exactly the same thing that Mr Hermann Gahrmit makes the Wippal. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I may make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, it must be possible to support such a request, which wants exactly what the population wants. Let's see what comes out today on the fourth run! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[18:41]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19937	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mrs Rebecca Kirchbaumer, you are speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19964	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! Mr Hauser, I have already said this in committee: It is not just a problem for freight transport. I would like to say: There are 2.8 million transiting trucks that naturally need to be moved to the rails. I think we're all here. a few. Despite all this, we never talk about the 14 million transiting cars that drive from Munich to the Lago di Garda. They are also a problem because every weekend, as soon as the first holidays are, we really have a wall in Zirl in front of Innsbruck, up to Bolzano, until after all the tolls. I believe that we also need to talk about this, and not only do we have to take freight transport as direct recipients of measures. Goods transport means business. Economy means jobs and jobs mean prosperity. In freight traffic, we don't drive through the countries for fun, but we transport goods that we need for daily use – from the toilet paper, we've seen this in the pandemic, down to the noodles, everything. That was said on this subject once. The other side: Yes, this regional railway is very, very good and very, very important for the economy, because so the employees come to their workplace in peace. In the morning and in the evening – and in the meantime even on the afternoon – it is really difficult to get through on the Inntal motorway because traffic has increased blatantly. However, the counterparts who come from the Upper Land, the Lower Land or the valleys have no alternative but to drive out of the valleys by car. For example, if you have to live a bit above Telfs and use the train to the DEZ – this is a commercial area in the Speckgürtel of Innsbruck – you need to work for almost two hours with public transport. I don't think that's possible. That is what I would like to say to Mr Margreiter: We really need park-and-ride places so that when you drive to work, you can drive from the valleys to the park-and-ride parking lot and then on the regional railways. I can tell you, in Völs – I have a business there – you are looking forward to this regional railway coming because you have a direct connection to the city. Also in Rum – this is a very good point – it really needs a park-and-ride system. That's what I'm going to give my colleague. The funding comes to 55 percent from the state of Tyrol, 45 percent from the federal government. I believe that it is in the sense of all that we need to shift this traffic into the rails in Innsbruck's bacon belt, as well as transiting freight transport – not that of the domestic economy, but transiting traffic – to the rails. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20006	Next speaker: Mr Erwin Anger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20031	Madam President. Mrs Minister, hello to God! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! This item on the agenda is a solution in the central region of Tyrol. It is nice that there is a solution for the Tyroleans and that you solve the problem with the local railway. Unfortunately, we also have a similar problem in Carinthia with the gap between Klagenfurt and Villach as regards the Baltic-Adriatic axis. The Baltic-Adriatic axis from the Baltic Sea to the Adriatic Sea will become a very important trans-European railway, better known as the coral railway. It will, of course, and this is also positive, a lot of traffic on the rails, of course also an increased transport of goods. What is not so positive, especially for 200 000 people in the area of Klagenfurt and Villach, in the central area of Carinthia, is that there is no loophole and no solution for this area. Unfortunately, nothing has gone on in recent years. Now a citizens' initiative has been set up there, and on Monday there was a central conference in which representatives of all the parties present – including representatives from the Green Group there and, of course, from all other political groups – were unanimously adopted a resolution to be signed tomorrow in a press conference by the head of state Kaiser, SPÖ, and by Landesrat Schuschnig, ÖVP. I am now saving you the text of this resolution. This resolution should again be signed in the presence of all the Members who come there and the representatives of the citizens' initiative in a medium-effective manner. We wanted to support this and prepared a motion for a resolution and basically incorporated the text of the resolution into this motion for a resolution. Unfortunately, the government parties of Green and EIA were not prepared to take part in this request. The Social Democrats and NEOS support the proposal, which I am very pleased with. I shall now make this request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope that this request will be approved. It would be a shame if he were rejected, otherwise this morning resolution submission and press conference would have remained nothing more than a media-active and public display of a sensation. It would be important, however, that there be appropriate decisions here in the National Council to ensure that this is implemented. - Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[18:48]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20202	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled. Mr Hermann Weratschnig spoke a second time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20226	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hauser's motion for a resolution, Mr Luegbrücke on the Brenner line, said: We have adjourned this request in the Transport Committee with the argument that in this project the complaint of The municipality of Gries has to wait for the decision in the EIA procedure accordingly. So there is a legal procedure. On the other hand, I believe there is a good and strengthened dialogue with Mr Hermann Gahr, who is directly in contact with the municipalities, with the country of Tyrol and with the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, with regard to the implementation of this project, the guarantee of security and, above all, the exchange of expertise, the various opinions and the issue of noise protection. The topic of noise protection is an essential topic for citizens on the Brennerbahn. We will continue to work on the project in this sense. This resolution, which is before us today, cannot be approved on the basis of the statement above, Which does not mean that one does not continue to work on this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20266	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. The vote will be taken at the end of the negotiations on the proposals of the Committee on Transport. [[18:50:31]] 13. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on Amendment No 1451/A(E) by Mr Alois Stöger, Mr Diplômé, Mrs Diplômé, on the safe financing of the 1-2-3 ticket (1096, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20302	We're coming to the 13th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First speaker is Mrs Melanie Erasim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20329	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Great, if one – I have to say so – is implemented or at least part of it social-democratic idea, because of the original 1-2-3 variant, the big tripartite is now at the start. In the one and two versions, there is still a flickering slug, but this is a good start in order to enable good transport services for the future. However, what I do not understand, Mrs Minister, is that there is a rejection from your side, namely on the grounds that funding has anyway been ensured, if we as SPÖ make a request regarding the safe financing of this ticket. In my opinion, one can agree to this, because there is a danger that this request has been seen as support for you and for this project. All former coalition partners of the ÖVP can confirm that the ÖVP – whether turquoise or black – allows lighthouse projects of the government partner only for so long as it itself has a greater benefit than the other. What the 1-2-3 ticket should not be, is a thumb screw of the ÖVP, which is then set to cover up transparency and full awareness of the alleged corrupt processes within the government. But what needs to be repaired as quickly as possible is the right to a pension ticket for women from 60. from the date of entry into the pension, and not only five years after that date. We all know: Age poverty is very often female. That's where I'd ask you to do some extras. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, as Members of Parliament who come from a commuting community from a donor region, I very much welcome the financial reliefs for all those who have to travel long distances to get to work. But I would like to say one thing: If you talk to those who now benefit financially from the ticket, then the joy is already a bit sad, as on the one hand, it is feared that at the latest at the next reform of the shuttle fee this ticket will return to the The final effect is to be paid and, on the other hand, the quality may suffer. Those who are already struggling with major problems are the cities and communities. Just as we were at the climate ticket with the idea of a pioneer, as SPÖ, we were side by side with the cities and communities from the beginning of the Corona crisis. Although aid packages have provided short-term relief, if one does not act now, many important projects are on the tip, including local projects relating to passenger and regional transport. In the absence of funding, it can happen that much cannot be implemented. That is why I make a request on this subject: [[Quoted print version removed]] Please vote To this important request not to abandon the cities and communities! - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[18:55]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20486	The motion for a resolution has been tabled and is under negotiation. Mr Hermann Weratschnig, you are speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20510	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Who would have thought that nine federal states, transport associations, transport companies agreed on an Austrian-wide annual network map in public transport and, so to speak, enter into a longer-term relationship? Who would have thought that years ago? I can still remember very well how difficult it was when we negotiated the Tyrol ticket in Tyrol in 2013, which was implemented in 2017, to eliminate all the differences in a federal state and to reach a longer-term relationship. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the time, we expressed a desire from the Federal Republic of Germany to see a vision of the federal government and had much hope of implementing a federal annual network card. These hopes of the counterparts have been fulfilled with the climate ticket in a coalition where it goes where it works. How many ministers have tried this in the past? - I've been looking at it a little bit: This was already in discussion in 1986, then under Federal Minister Rudolf Streicher, 17 ministers have been in office since then, four former ministers, ministers a. D. are even sitting here in Parliament: Mr Stöger, Mr Klubobmann Leichtfried, Mr Bures and Mr Hofer. One thing is quite clear: You can sing a song about these negotiations and about the difficulties. Federal Minister Leonore Geessler has simply implemented it with her team, the coalition partner, a majority here in the house – with NEOS and SPÖ. These are the facts, that is crucial. There is an annual network card and a price, a climate ticket for durable mobility, a price for everything, a price for all, one for all and all for a ticket. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP]] At the end of the day, the donors benefit from this: a map for more climate happiness – climate happiness that we all need in the future. Congratulations to all those who have worked on it! The Pendlers have won, I have already said it: More than 35 000 tickets – I think with today’s stand it’s even a few thousand more – have already been sold. The climate ticket is a success story, it will be a success story, honourable Members, that is a revolution. We also know, however, that this is one of the prices and the other of the expansion of public transport, which has a special importance, such as the revitalisation of railways. Here I highlight the revitalization of the Murtal Railway in Styria, the acceleration and expansion of the Franz-Josefs Railway, the modernisation of the Zillertal Railway, the Mattigtal Railway, the Eichenberg Railway – so you could go beyond the speaking time, I think, list those tracks where there is a need for action. [[Abg. Stögmüller: Mattigtalbahn!]] We are now approaching and investing. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the rural regions, it is the bus traffic that we need, above all, at the end of the day. All these are projects we work with, for the start there is the climate ticket. We ourselves have the climate protection license, ladies and gentlemen, that is the most important thing. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] There's still a lot of strength to do this for bus and train. Let's go! Time for Change! We are all there, and I invite everyone to change and use the climate ticket. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20568	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Gerhard Deimek. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20592	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! We have heard the benefits of the climate ticket for a long time now. [[In the direction of Abg. Western:]] That's where I agree with you over long distances. But today we wanted to talk about financing the ticket, which is quite clear. [[Abg. Weratschnig: Sure! Sure!]] If we know how the railway is financed, how the ÖBB is financed: Here we – Mrs Federal Minister, you know it – have the five-year plans, the pre-taxes that are clearly defined in the annual reports. We have funding from the budget. Now we have a number of 15a agreements around the climate ticket. However, what we constantly have – the financial compensation – is a little off. You'd have to put in a structure again, saying: What is clearly the financing of the ÖBB? That's not any company, it's the company that owns 100 percent of the state. We conclude from what we know so far about the budget and what we have seen from the figures so far, that there is a part left. When you say, Well, there you will now have to finance yourself in the free market!, then we don't find that so ideal because this is the first compulsion and you say: Dear OeBB, now it's actually more expensive for you than you've calculated all this! On the other hand, as we have seen in the SPÖ's request, we have the communities that still suffer a little bit from all these situations. So it's not very clean. We would imagine correcting the structure if one had the pre-taxes, if one had the funds out of the budget, and if the ÖBB needed something to get up well, then one would have to do that and not say: Dear OeBB, get out! – We do not do this at Asfinag or at other companies. That the climate ticket as such will surely now experience a big boom in the first phase, I think I do not, because of course many who now have an Austrian card will change to the new ticket: for sure, those who have the ticket for the second class. The first will calculate it, like the business class, with the various other additions. Whether it's cheaper in total, you'll see, but basically it's still a piece of funding for us, and that's clear. You will not clear it from today to tomorrow, as we are dealing with the budget in the coming few weeks, but in principle it should be put on safe feet in the coming time, because the ÖBB actually deserved it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20632	Andreas Ottenschlager is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20656	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Values Advisors! Maybe I can take you on a very, very short trip at the beginning. Jobs She is a self-employed businessman from Salzburg, for example from Hallein, who has her business there, but the customers she wants to visit and care for are scattered throughout Austria: For example, if she comes to Vienna or if she wants to go to Innsbruck, she can use the whole – by the way not only price-effective, but also completely unbureaucratic – in the future with the climate ticket, namely the entire public transport in Vienna, Innsbruck and, of course, where she is on the road. This idea alone, I think, is once again a very good one and will bring many to think about whether they do not want to use this offer, as they will be able to use this offer in the future – there is now an even more attractive offer with less than 1 000 euros, in the future it will be 1 095 euros – all year round and to be on the way in Austria, for example, to care for their customers. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it's actually a big throw. I also think it is good that we can discuss it again today and also make a bit of advertising so that the start will now be a more successful one. However, I should also like to take the opportunity to express my thanks to you, Mrs Federal Minister, especially your employees, also to the federal states and to the transport associations. It has already been mentioned: It was indeed, as Mr Margreiter said, an act of strength during the last debate. That is true too, but now it has succeeded and I think that all the partners in this area are now also satisfied. We are also taking on a pioneering role in the European Union. We are attracting public transport with these investments. I think that the next task we have to do here is to expand the offer, to improve it, so that we can also come to the regions where we do not have such a good offer in public transport at the moment, so that this climate ticket can also be adopted accordingly, and – if we make a good offer there – that the changeover, for example for commuters, can be better achieved. That'll be our job. To this end, record amounts will be invested; they will be made available for the next few years. We have already debated the budget today: More than 17 billion euros will flow into the development of public infrastructure in the coming years. So I think we are on a very good path together, including in this coalition.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20696	Dr. Johannes Margreiter is speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20726	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! A lot of things have already been said. As Mr Weratschnig explained: The Federal Minister has “just implemented” it!, I have to raise an objection: It certainly wasn't. [[Cheerfulness to representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] So it was certainly a – Mr Ottenschlager has already put it in my mouth – a massive act of strength. We therefore have reason to see with very positive expectations how this climate ticket will be adopted. In the course of the government programme until now, to the actual implementation, there has been only a small change from the name. Starting from the 1-2-3 ticket, we have now reached the climate ticket. So this is quite a promise, but at this point, Mrs Federal Minister, I already want to insist that we really evaluate it then, because we take a lot of money into the hands of taxpayers. I would also like to thank the taxpayers, who are funding themselves. We owe them the fact that after a period of observation of a year, two years, we are actually checking exactly: What climate effect have we achieved? In practice, I see certain problems coming because of this flat rate the passenger frequencies will no longer be clearly recognizable. It will be dependent on this to be able to assess whether it is really successful to move people to change from fossil-powered passenger cars mainly – there and there, of course, it will also be a bus, in which less emissions can be expected from the principle. This evaluation will therefore be very important, so I would ask for it very much. Of course, today we will also be happy to agree with this funding proposal so that the funding is secured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20769	Mrs. Leonore Geessler is now speaking. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20790	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! For 15 years, this project has been in government programmes, and now it is there: the climate ticket – great joy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I don't like to say: It needed a lot of heart blood, a lot of work, many, many hours of work of a really, really great team in the ministry and beyond – but I'll be there later. Every single hour it was worth for this really great project: a ticket for all public authorities throughout the country – for every bus, for every train, for every bim, for every subway. Mr Ottenschlager described it earlier in the example of a self-employed entrepreneur. But each and every one of you knows how easy, convenient and simple the use of the public will be. If you go from Parliament 3 minutes to the subway, get into the subway and drive to the train station, you reach Graz by train to the next date, you can continue there by tram and have to don't even think about it. How do I get a card? Where's the machine? Do I have any change? Do I have to do something else? You can also go on a weekend trip with the family without considering: Is that all right? Or to think about it. How do I get to my ticket? – So simple, as cheap, as convenient as ever before, and that from 26. October 2021! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is a ticket that many people in our country are waiting for, which people really want and accept well. Mr Weratschnig mentioned the sales figures earlier. We are currently at 40 000 tickets sold, so we see after a week and a half, that people want it because it's a cheap alternative because it's a convenient alternative – and because it's good for climate protection. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Public health ultimately means more quality of life. We also discussed this in the previous debate: It keeps our air clean, it frees passengers from the dams – and it protects the climate. ==References== In October, the presale runs for the whole of Austria. All the federal states are on board from the beginning, a very great joy. I use my speaking time for a small advertising call for our audiences: You can already get the ticket at all switches of the ÖBB and the Westbahn, at the first switches of the allies and at www.klimaticket.at very easily; and from 26. You can travel with it all over the country on October. The regular ticket costs 1 095 euros – for all those who are with you immediately, 949 euros – and the tickets for seniors, for people with reduced mobility and all under 26 years of age, who have already received a discount, will cost only 699 euros at the beginning. Parliamentary Erasim has made a comment on the issue of tickets for seniors. I would like to answer this in the course of my speech: Until 2010, we partially had different age limits for the retirement reduction, with a different age for men and women. This differentiation due to sex has been abolished as unconstitutional and is therefore not constitutional. For this reason, in 2010 the transport associations, the countries, the ÖBB and the Federal Government made up of this statement and agreed to a gradual approximation through pre-accession to the age limit of 65 years. This was a process that should last more than ten years and which will be completed in 2022 with this approximation to the age limit of 65 years. . As much as the background to this regulation as it has now been made. With the 699 euros, I think, we can make a really incredibly cheap offer to all under 26 years olds, all over 65 years olds and all with reduced mobility in our country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Erasim.]] I would like to end my speech with a thank you. I couldn't stand here today, and I'm glad I couldn't celebrate success, but I didn't get a lot of people on this project. That is why I would like to take the opportunity to thank all those who are politically active in the transport sector. These are the national transport representatives and also the representatives of the Transport Committee who have followed the project here in plenary. I thank all of them, because it is quite clear that it took a lot of preliminary work to make the climate ticket real. We have put ourselves at the table with every federal state, we have entered the depths of the complex collective bargaining structures, may I say that the federal states are presuming, we have discussed big and small questions, we have the different conditions illuminated, turned together on many screws and found the best solution for the respective federal state. But we also have here in the house – that's why thanks really goes to you all too! – created the legal basis for the climate ticket. We have secured the budget for this – and indeed, it is permanently secured through the contractual solutions for the alliances. With the different allies, we have made up the appropriate charging models and we have found solutions step by step – therefore a great thank you to all those who were constructively involved in this journey and supported him, and a great thank you also to you all here in the High House who have accompanied the project! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the course of the budget debates, we will certainly discuss intensively with the focus on the future of public transport, but I would like to take a brief look at the last year: I think the climate ticket is one in a number of projects last year that we can be really proud of, despite the Covid Pandemic and despite the challenges it has brought to all of us, as a federal government together with the federal states – to an absolute year of success in public transport! We have actually launched numerous public projects that have been discussed for decades, not only in headlines, but also in concrete contracts and projects: Linz, Salzburg, today Innsbruck. Together with the Climate Ticket Act, we have created the stable framework conditions for the climate ticket. We have been able to adopt a sustainable budget for regional climate tickets, we have secured sustainable public transport record budgets – and we will also discuss this in the budget debate. In the long term, we are talking about 5 billion euros a year that are going on in the development of public transport. We have drawn up strategic guidelines with the Mobility Master Plan, so we have worked with great pressure on all three pillars that the public transport of the future needs: on a modern infrastructure, on a good offer and on simple and manageable tariffs with the climate ticket. I think there have been many good decisions and projects this year. Together we will launch many more good projects – and thank you for your support!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20890	Mr Lukas Hammer. — (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20914	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! [[Abg. Smoking: Who would choose the suit? I'm sure the Greens aren't!]] Yes, from my point of view, you have written history, you and your team have really written traffic policy history by implementing this project that you have tried for so long – over 15 years, partly the ideas are going back for a long time – now. I think we know and you probably now know in retrospect why this has often failed: because it was really a mammoth task that you, your team and all those involved in it had to deal with. There were fifty rounds of negotiations with all nine federal states, but now it's done – and again: really warm congratulations to you and Your team! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] When it comes to climate protection, it is less about showing the people with the index finger what they need and what they should, but rather about making climate-friendly behavior easier and cheaper. I think the climate ticket is just one of the best projects in this area, because we can simply show: Yes, the people who use public transport save themselves money. I think many people are not at all aware of how many commuters pay. The climate ticket is now always compared with the ÖBB's Austrian card, which itself costs EUR 1,944, but this comparison is actually not correct. You have to look at what commuters have actually paid so far. I picked this out: A donor who commuts from Stegersbach to Vienna pays in the year 2 232 euros – only for this route and the core zone of Vienna; that is, she cannot travel by train on holiday in summer and then use the public. It only saves itself for this route with the air-conditioning ticket of EUR 1 283, which is sensational. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Also in Tulln, which is relatively close to Vienna, one saves 400 euros for this shuttle track. I believe it is seen that the people who are already commuting with the public transport companies who are already using public transport are saving themselves a lot. This is important, and I think it is also a very concrete offer for many people to change – because it is more comfortable because you have this beautiful ticket already. You can just get in. You don't have to buy it extra, you don't have to do it. You just get in and it's cheaper. I believe that this is really one of the most beautiful projects that we have been able to implement in this legislative period until now. Once again cordial congratulations and many thanks!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20963	Next speaker is Member Lukas Brandweiner. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20987	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home in front of the screen! 1-2-3 stands in my home country Lower Austria for a concrete blue-yellow mobility plan in public transport: first for cheaper, second for more comfortable and third for better. That it is cheaper, we have now reached the climate ticket. I would like to remind you that a few weeks ago there was massive criticism because there was no solution in the Eastern region. At the time, I have emphasized in the House that we need a regional solution for more than 500 000 counterparts in Lower Austria, who are commuting within the federal state, but also for more than 200 000 people commuting to Vienna and back again. With the regional ticket and the metropolitan ticket, we have now succeeded. I would also like to thank our mobility councillor Ludwig Schleritzko and our head of state Johanna Mikl- Leitner very much for the consistent and prudent negotiation. It has become a great result, a result that brings people a noticeable relief. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Let me also list a few examples! A friend of mine travels daily with the Wiselbus from Zwettl to Krems. With the regional ticket of 550 euros, he now saves 878 euros a year. Many commuters, who travel to Vienna daily on the Franz-Josefs train, can now use the Metropolitan Region Ticket for 915 euros all public transport in the eastern region throughout the year. For example, this brings a donor from Gmünd more than EUR 1 400 a year. But there are also reductions, namely – the Minister has already mentioned it – for seniors, for people with disabilities, but above all for young people. I am very pleased, because since I have been politically active, I have been working for slow tickets for young people. And if I look at the fact that you can travel for 821 euros a year across Austria, as a student to study, to visit friends or to go on vacation, I really think that's great. But if you just turn on the price screw, you have forgotten what it really is about: We also need to create more comfortable and better offers. It is only in this way that we can inspire people for public transport, and we must continue to work together. Finally, I would like to draw attention to this as a forest quadruple, and this is particularly important to me that of course we also need road traffic. The buses also drive on the streets, as well as the cars with alternative drives. I don't think we should forget that. We also have a reliable partner with the Mobility Councillor Ludwig Schleritzko. In this sense, I am looking forward to further joint cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21041	Next speaker is Member Joachim Schnabel. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21066	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Values Advisors! A lot has already been said about the climate ticket today. From the point of view of the ÖVP, we also achieve more or less an objective which we have already postulated in 2006, namely through a power act by you, Mrs Minister, but also by providing the financial resources set out in the Federal Budget, as finance minister Blümel has stated. 430.3 million euros are written by 2025. This is actually the answer to the SPÖ's request: The financing is sustainablely secured. The ticket has several facets. In Styria we will now also have a regional climate ticket, namely the climate ticket Styria, around 49 euros per month. This means, for example, for commuters in my region, that when you travel from the capital city of Leibnitz to Graz, you save 506 euros. If you donate from the capital city of Germany to Graz, you save 701 euros now, and if you travel from the slightly more distant Eibiswald to Graz, you save a total of 1,170 euros per year. If one still combines this with climate bonus, climate protection with home understanding, then another 200 euros will be added, and that is already amounts where we can talk about an incentive system for switching to public transport. This has really been a good success. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The air-conditioning ticket is also accompanied by many infrastructural measures by us in the region: the attraction of Radkersburger Bahn, the expansion of Spielfeld-Straße station, but also the electrification of the SKB train. A rail network of 130 kilometers is electrified there. We can thus save and reduce 480 000 tonnes of CO2 by 2030. As far as funding is concerned, however, I have, and I have already said this, Mrs Minister, a great request in connection with the SCI: This is an important factor for public transport in the region, not only for the apparent traffic, but also for bus and micro-oil, for the gap, for the last mile. With us – and therefore this is a comprehensive public transport service provider for us – the GKB has won the call for proposals for micro-oil transport and offers hydrogen taxis with electrotax this last mile of air conditioning. That is why we can say in detail that we have a really great climate-friendly transport offer in the region. To do this, I would like to ask: This micro-oil system also belongs in the long term to the donor in such a climate ticket system so that it is also financially attractive. The communities are financing this micro-oil system, and I therefore come to the request made by Mrs Erasim from the SPÖ: Some things take a long time to figure out that they're good. For months or more, we were told that the municipal investment programme is not good, that is not the case with the municipalities. Now we have a motion for a resolution calling for exactly a KIP. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Erasim.]] So it also arrived at the SPÖ municipalities that this was a good story and worked great. We have extended this to the next year so that investment can also be financed from this package. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross.]] The second aspect concerns these additives. From the point of view of the communities, thanks to our Federal Government, to our clubman Sebastian Kurz, who led us through the crisis in total by means of the many measures. The economic upturn is there and it also has an impact on the communities, namely in the form of income. If we are going to have to book 11.4 billion euros this year, these amounts are increasing continuously, and if we look at the year 2023 from the development of the incomes of the Federal Ministry of Finance, we are already expecting an increase of 1.3 billion euros for the municipalities there, and then up to 2024, 2026 already a plus of 2.6 billion euros. That is why we can say that the request is good, because you realize that we were right a year ago, but it is a coincidence because, through positive economic development, many things are going well anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21154	The next speaker is Franz Leonhard Eßl. - Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21178	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! For the first time, I am pleased that the coalition partner has come to know on this point that there is a very good policy to do with an incentive system. I would like this to be done in other areas which we are currently negotiating. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] Great praise for this knowledge! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Secondly, this point gives me the opportunity to deal with me a little bit with the SPÖ, since the request which asks for "the [[Intrusion of the Abg. Erasim]] To prepare necessary financial measures in order to implement an Austrian-wide climate ticket for all public transport starting with the 2021 budget year", was introduced by Mr Stöger. It is remarkable that Mr Stäger has been a minister for several years, has even been a minister of transport for more than a year, and obviously has not been able to do so. This government is making it, and that's the difference. The SPÖ criticises and we implement. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] ==References== We created the legal foundations on May 21, 2021. In difficult negotiations with the countries, the Federal Minister has created a practical package, a practical solution – warm congratulations! – and now we have the climate ticket. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In this case, we can also expect the agreement of the Freedom Party, because on 25 March, Member of the Commission said that: “These are the actions that count, not the announcements!” – Now the actions are there, I ask for the consent. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] The climate ticket is here and with the present budget sustainable funding is also guaranteed. This fits precisely with the objective of the eco-social market economy, which was developed by Joschi Riegler and is also lived as a model of the Austrian People's Party. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Smoke]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The last thing I can say, however, is a sentence or a few sentences on the discussion that has been going on all day. As a parliamentarian, it is important for me to say a few sentences about how this Parliament works and how it works. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] With a chat entry five years ago, the SPÖ tells our club that more than EUR 1 billion would have come to the citizens. On the content of this day, thanks to my colleagues, God has already been disproved. In terms of content, it has been said that this is wrong. But if that were really the case: At this time five years ago the SPÖ was in the government, at that time five years ago there was a socialist Federal Chancellor and at that time five years ago you, my dear colleagues from SPÖ, were already there at least ten people. I wonder why you did not say five years ago: That's a scandal, we need it, it must be! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] What did you do during this time? Did you sleep during this time or did you just not notice that? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Good work for people in our country always looks different. This good work, I think, we deliver. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Especially with this climate ticket, this has also been successful. We can therefore accept the negative committee report and therefore reject Mr Stöger's request.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21324	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Transport. [[19:34:26]] Vote on agenda items 12 and 13
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21353	We shall now come to the vote moved on the reports of the Committee on Transport, which I shall make separately on each item on the agenda. Do the clubs want a session break? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 12: Request of the Transport Committee to grant approval in 1041 of the Supplements to the Agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the State of Tyrol on the financing of the Tirol Central Regional Railway, Section Rum. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Christian Hafenecker, colleagues, on 'no construction stop and no delay in the construction of the S34 Traisental Highway'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Gerald Hauser, colleagues on “No new construction of the Luegbrücke against the will of the population”. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, are a sign of approval. – That too is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Erwin Angerer, Mr Mag.a Dr.in Petra Oberrauner, Dr. Johannes Margreiter, colleagues, on "Planning and setting up a freight railway station and taking measures to protect the population in the Carinthian central area from the noise of the railway". I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 13: Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 1096 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Melanie Erasim, colleagues on the'sustainable strengthening of municipal finances'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[19:36:44]] 14. Point Report by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 7, 40, 46 and 47, 56 and 59, as well as the citizens' initiatives No. 3 and 35 (1094 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21481	We're coming to the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Peter Weidinger has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21514	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! On Sunday the 10th season was completed. October celebrated in Carinthia as a national holiday according to our motto Carinthia free and undivided. A little more undivided will become Carinthia in 2025 with the completion of the Koralmbahn. There will be faster accessibility from Vienna, from Graz to Villach, in the heart of the Carinthian Central Area, and from there on into the regions. This is a major, important infrastructure project, which has been launched by previous governments and is being pursued and implemented in this continuity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, Mr President, is being discussed with one another at an eye, with respect and appreciation, because we take the concerns of the citizens seriously and because we are concerned about their concerns. I would therefore also like to express my express thanks to Mrs Bundesminister Geessler for having been able to make an appointment with the President of the Chamber of Commerce Jürgen Mandl and Mrs Olga Vogluer of the Greens in order simply to build even more understanding: that it is necessary that this infrastructure project does not stop at the Carinthian Central Region in Klagenfurt, but that we put in place necessary noise protection measures together with the Ministry, with the ÖBB and with the country. I would also like to highlight the commitment of the young, sympathetic Transport Country Council of Carinthia, Sebastian Schuschnig, who has put in a great programme to support the communities, in accordance with the Carinthian government, that there is financial support, so that the communities improve their noise protection – whatever they do. With this petition and with the positive processing, there are also initial successes. Thus, together with the country and the ÖBB, we were able to set up a noise measuring station in Velden, where figures, data and facts are collected. We have also brought together with the ÖBB an underpass in Pörtschach, which is conducive to the quality of life of the people and will also make the tourists happy if the completion is done next year as such. But let me also give you a critical comment: Unfortunately, Carinthia is the only federal country affected by massive emigration. But let me also give you a critical comment: Unfortunately, Carinthia is the only federal country affected by massive emigration. That means, unfortunately, many young people leave the country, not because it would not be nice with us, but because many see their job prospects in other federal states or abroad. Therefore, the infrastructure is of such crucial importance to us, it is important to make it easier to reach quickly, as in a pearl chain with the Greater Graz area, with Klagenfurt and with Villach, and to create a new economic area. This will also give us opportunities, I think of Qualcomm in Germany, a company in the field of microelectronics, to Lam Research or Ortner Reinraumtechnik, where there are good jobs and perspectives for people; and this along a accessibility with daily commuting movements to the extent of 70 minutes. However, I also ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to provide broad support across borders, so that we can also take sides of the Ministry for the alternative route management. more support is available. In this respect, there is still a scepticism as to whether the figures are actually reached, whether it is justified to offer a freight road in the Carinthian Central Area as an alternative to the inventory route. We and the Carinthians are convinced. We ask you to support the fact that we are opening up the way to revive the Carinthia Economic Area, strengthen the habitat and create perspectives so that many young people, not only from all over Austria, but also from rest of Europe, say: I'm going to Carinthia, because according to the motto of Carinthia's advertising, it says: “It’s my life!” In this sense: Finally, I would like to thank Dr. Steindl, Christoph Neuscheller, Peter Unterluggauer and Herbert Zankl for the citizens' initiative, which, together with us, is consistently committed to making this dream a reality for Carinthia and for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21578	Member Andreas Kollross has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21602	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Values Advisors! Before I come to the subject, I would like to make a comment on Mr Schnabel, who previously felt that the Municipal Investment Act was extended for the municipalities. For correction only: It has been extended and extended the period in which one can apply for, but the Communal investment law has not been extended. It could have been believed that there had been additional funding. Of course, this is not the case, but the government has insisted that what we have said for a long time is also the fact, namely that the communities lack the financial resources to get that at all. That is why we have extended the period during which we can apply. The Minister of Finance has already formulated yesterday, in his budget speech, that only a little more than 70 percent have been collected and that this has actually been done since 30. It'd be over on June. But now to the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives: Unfortunately, it was in this committee that we could not deal with many petitions and citizens' initiatives. This is not because we did not want to, none of the parties, but because there have not yet been many opinions and many opinions have not yet been received. Nevertheless, there are a few petitions or citizens' initiatives that have been ended, and unfortunately it is going through like a red thread that the two government parties believe that, when the opinions are there, there is no further work and no further discussion, but that these initiatives are then simply and simply finished. One of these initiatives – and I think this is particularly tasteful – is the citizens' initiative on the abolition of diesel privilege. Now!’ There have also been opinions on this, for example, by Mrs Umweltminister, who was there only briefly and who did not comment more or less on it, but only said: Yes, there is something in the government programme anyway, we will discuss it! There has then been a statement by the Minister of Finance, in which he has been more concerned with the flight charge and has just said: Yeah, there's something there anyway and we'll talk about it sometime! – He also referred to the government programme. Funnyly, he did this to us on 1st September. ==References====External links== It is known that the alleged eco-social tax reform has been decided on on October. Man So already knew what happened to the diesel privilege or what didn't happen. A small note to the Greens: Although you have so attached the issue of the abolition of diesel privilege to the flags, you were not even willing to discuss this issue in the Environment Committee at all, but you have said: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! – So much to your credibility, because you are constantly celebrating today and also yesterday, what you have not already done with the eco-social tax reform. – The diesel privilege is still there.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21648	The next speaker is Member Christian Ries. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21672	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to speak today about a petition entitled “For clear rules at Tuning meetings in Austria”. She was handed over by co-workers Peter Weidingeraus Kärnten. This petition is an exception, because I do not think it has been properly allocated to a committee. This is not a sign of underestimation, because it is simply this way – I have already pointed out in the Committee – that there is a clear error in the subject. Although a legitimate concern of the population is addressed in the text – it is a matter of noise and causation violations in the course of GTI meetings and similar events – it is not the case that there is a lack of a federal legal basis as suggested. This petition presupposes a decision by the Kärntner state government, which complains of the lack of a federal legal basis in order to put a bar on waste at GTI meetings. But the only thing that has been proposed is the argument that the country cannot do anything about it, because these federal regulations exist. StVO, KFG and KDV alone offer a wide range, which must be respected and which can therefore be controlled. Not only do we say that, but also the specialists from the Ministry of Transport. In addition, the legislator can also proceed at national level – he should do so in this case – and specify in the national security law, which can be a noise excitation or an infringement of the state law. This may also allow municipalities to adopt additional measures by means of a Regulation to deal effectively with marginalisers or petrol brothers. Dear colleague Weidinger – I do not see him now – if you want to know what is possible in this regard, I would recommend to you the Burgenlander Landes Sicherheitsgesetz, which describes much more detailed than the Carinthian national security law on criminal conduct and also provides for relief measures such as safeguards. At the time, the Landesgesetz was made under the responsibility of a FPÖ member. Mr Weidinger, I have already provided you with the legislative text, which you can also pass on to your responsible ÖVP member in Carinthia. In this case, you may write down, we have nothing against it.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21720	This is what Mag.a Ulrike Fischer is talking about. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21745	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Citizens' initiatives and petitions concern a right that it has been constitutional since the 19th century. ==References====External links==* Official website Even today, it is still possible to introduce a citizens' initiative or petition. Today we are dealing with the collection report petitions, but since I am asked again and again how to actually bring in a petition or a citizens' initiative, a few introductory words on this matter: A citizens' initiative needs 500 support. A citizens' initiative does not need to be supported by a Member, it must be made in writing, and the people who sign it must be registered in the municipal electorate. If you bring in a citizens' initiative or petition, it is very good to look at www.parliament.gv.at to see if opinions have been received, because all opinions are also published. A petition is even lower, and all of us as Members of Parliament have the opportunity to make a petition with a simple signature on the concerns of our electorate. Of course, it is good if a petition is supported by citizens. At the moment, Mr President-in-Office, we have around 50 concerns in the Committee on Petitions, and every concern is important because it expresses the concerns of our people, our citizens. What can be seen is: Public transport, noise and accessibility are major issues, so it is important that we set the right steering effects. The climate ticket will mean that we have a better offer that the railway stations will be more frequented so that we can afford accessibility to introduce a stronger clocking. And an example from my community: As a community, we have also committed ourselves to making a noise protection. However, noise protection is expensive, and what it takes here is that the communities will be better off in budget terms. To this end, I would like to say: If a community cannot afford to make noise protection, then land, federal government and the ÖBB must support it even better. I believe that democracy can only work if citizens have the opportunity to participate, and this is a good and effective tool. Finally, I would like to thank the president of the Committee for its constructive cooperation, and for the Parliament's management that they always prepare all the opinions so comprehensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21791	Next speaker is Mr Michael Bernhard. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21815	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Even though I have just received a compliment – which I am very pleased with and for which I thank Mrs Fischer – it would be better not to have a compliment, but to have more success in the Committee on Petitions. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fischer.]] I have the privilege of being allowed to work in the Petitions Committee for eight years, and it is indeed true that it has never been as bad as under the green government participation in the eight years. We have experienced a standstill coalition from ÖVP and SPÖ in the Committee on Petitions, then the ÖVP with the FPÖ and then the ÖVP with the Greens, and there has been more and more commitment, more discussion and more solution than now under the turquoise-green government. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have a very good administration. The Directorate of Parliament is preparing everything in such a way that we, as Members, can have a good discussion. For the spectators – if anyone else is watching me – a short example: We had 48 agenda items in 57 minutes in committee, so we needed about 1 minute and 10 seconds per item of the agenda. Does anyone believe that we could have a serious debate on citizens at this time? – Of course not! And what's the cause of that? . Every time a citizens' initiative collects signatures in a content debate, the EIA and the Greens in some way delay, notice or other non-respect for this commitment. And I'd like to say one more thing now: The ÖVP is at least consistent. She does not claim to be a citizen. There is also no ÖVP member standing outside once and saying: Yes, we need more participation in Parliament! – They bring in their petitions, there is always something regional, constituency work – so it should be. There is no criticism at all, because in this particular case you stand for what you say. As a NEOS delegate, I think that's terrible, but you're consistent. [[I should like to congratulate the NEOS and Deputies Lausch and Schrangl.]] However, the Greens claim that they are in favour of citizens' participation, they are in favour of strengthening the citizen and the citizen, more participation, participation. But as soon as they are in a position of power and once they have the opportunity to change little ones, they not only destroy this promise, but also the hope that people have placed in them in the past. [[I should like to congratulate the NEOS and Deputies Lausch and Schrangl.]] As NEOS, we have tabled a request for amendments to the Rules of Procedure with which we want to reform the Committee on Petitions. In doing so, we want to prevent what you are doing, namely that in the future Members will continue to misuse their power to keep citizens small, and that citizens have a right to be heard in Parliament. If you support this, you may be able to repair all the pans and the abdominal area you have made in the last two years. At the moment, unfortunately, your work in the Committee on Petitions is not enough.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21880	Next speaker is Hans Stefan Hintner. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21909	Mr President. High house! Mr Bernhard, I can come up with two positive examples in terms of content. On the one hand, we know that research and science are very, very important, also for the economic location Austria. Regrettably, some funds could not be disbursed by the expiry of the RTD National Foundation in 2021, and so a petition regarding “Fund’s Future Austria” came to the Committee. Originally, 133 million euros would have been planned, and in fact 140 million euros have become available in the 2022 budget. This is also a special success of our colleague Theresia Niss. Congratulations on this initiative and on the implementation of the budget! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] A second petition was entitled “Abolition of Diesel Privileg”. I say it clearly: Whether the lower diesel tax is a privilege, let me put it down for myself, because we also know that there are operating resources that are much higher. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] However, the fact is that in the course of the eco-social tax reform, we have tied up an overall package, in which the diesel is of course also present, and for those who need and need it, we will also bring refund approaches.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21952	Next speaker is Rudolf Silvan. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21976	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to comment on the citizens' initiative on the abolition of diesel privilege. This initiative calls for an immediate increase in the oil tax on diesel fuels at the price of petrol and for the promotion of climate protection measures and the expansion of public transport. It is the fact that heavy-duty vehicles, 40 percent of heavy-duty vehicles in Austria, do not have effective particulate filters. These measures could also limit tank tourism in Austria. - So far, so good. I actually thought that this citizens' initiative, if the eco-social tax reform is already at the doorstep, would fall because this is already taken into account, but unfortunately this was not the case. This privilege persists despite the so-called eco-social tax reform. What astonished me – Mr Kollross has already said – is that we, the opposition parties, naturally tried to assign this citizens' initiative at least to the Environment Committee, but the government parties have also avoided it and have only taken note of it. Mr Brandweiner said earlier, at the previous item on the agenda, that rail connections need to be improved, especially in rural areas, and more convenient links must be established. Of course, more revenue would be welcome by such an abolition of the diesel privilege. I also do not understand that the around 800 million euros per year from the Köst reduction have not flown into public transport. I would like to give an example of many: Some district capitals in Austria, such as the district capital Zwettl in the Waldviertel, are not connected to public passenger transport, rail transport, and Mr Brandweiner mentioned it earlier. If you want to travel there by train to Vienna and, for example, at 7.30 a.m. Vienna must be, at the workplace or anywhere, then you have a real challenge ahead of you. You have to get up at about 3 p.m. to be in Gmünd at 3.51 p.m. because there is no public passenger traffic in Zwettl as I said. Then you drive from Gmünd towards Vienna, and you are then, well, just at 7 o'clock in Vienna. By car it takes 1 hour 30 minutes. That is why I believe that more revenue would be useful by increasing diesel taxation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22018	Mr Peter Schmiedlechner has now been notified of his speech. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22043	Mr President. Dear Seers! We can see the idea of the Citizens' Initiative “Abolish diesel privilege. Now!” don’t win anything, because the cost increases, no matter where you look, whether it’s electricity, gas, but also fuel – diesel, for example, has become almost 50 cents per litre more expensive in recent months – and now the CO2 tax is added. Especially in the biggest crisis, it is just bad to keep on burdening people and cutting them out. Do you really want to continue to burden the families on the land? Many are fighting now so they can get through somehow. Especially in the country, we do not have a fully developed public transport connection. We are required to go to work to bring the children to kindergarten to buy the most necessary to go to the doctor and, of course, to visit friends depend on the car. They are presenting an eco-social tax reform that will take the money out of the pocket for the people on the one hand and then give them a fraction of it on the other. This means that we are already at the regional climate bonus: a buffer action up to the no longer going. I'm really wondering: Have you cast out what the churches are like? I bring an example from my hometown of Wiener Neustadt: Two municipalities, the same bus connection, the same railway connection – one get a climate bonus of 200 euros, the other get it at the level of 167 euros. It's a disaster, a snap idea that only leads to a further division of people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Her policy is reminiscent of Raubritter. Raubritter, who in the Middle Ages expressed the population and the farmers. Finally, I would like to say something to the farmers: There becomes visible how hypocritical and false the ÖVP is again acting. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheucher-Pichler.]] In 2015 the farmers were taken away the discounted agricultural diesel to sell them now, after massive losses and burdens, a discount as a great gift. That's just ridiculous! Of course it has not taken long, and the het of the red side, of the SPÖ, of the union has used. You put the farmers down as if we were the big profiters. Dear SPÖ, if you don't know each other in agriculture, then you can ask me. I explain to you how it really looks in agriculture, because for nothing, eleven farms have to be locked every day: The agricultural families have a massive impact on inflation and the loss of purchasing power is disastrous, and animal welfare and the other conditions, such as the environmental conditions that affect the rural families, are constantly increasing. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: What about the kids' bonus, there's full of it, isn't it?- Oh, my God!]] The question arises who will produce the food in the future. My question to the SPÖ: Do you really need to go back to a professional group that is already on the ground? [[The speaker holds a poster of the FSG, on which “farmers after the tax reform: What does the world cost?” and on which is a man who wears a carded shirt and a straw hat and lets something be rubbed by his outstretched hand.]] Shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22097	Ladies and gentlemen! We have agreed not to use the term “hypocritical ” here in the House. I can therefore ask you to use replacement vocabulary in the future. Mrs Bettina Zopf has now been reported to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22125	“Between Salzburg and Bad Ischl rides a nice little railway”. – Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home and at the gallery! The issue of public transport, particularly in connection with climate protection, is more up-to-date than ever. With yesterday's budget decision, we launched the climate ticket. But what is the use of a cheap train ticket if there is no train connection on the one hand or on the other hand one cannot even get into the train? You can't say: Then you stop by tram or by metro!, because this transport is not available in the rural regions and the inner salt chamber goods. From 1893 to 1957 there was a narrow track between Salzburg and Bad Ischl. Unfortunately, an already projected electrification of the track was not realized. There are repeated efforts to rebuild the Salzkammergut-Localbahn. In 2011, an initiative of nine mayors of the Federal Länder Oberösterreich and Salzburg failed at the SPÖ mayor of Salzburg Heinz. This SPÖ mayor apparently did not place any value on public transport, and that in 2011! On the route from Ebensee to Bad Ischl, both were and are from the SPÖ-run municipalities, three stations were closed. My home, the Salzkammergut, is already a tourist hotspot, and with the project Kulturhauptstadt in 2024, the traffic situation will certainly become even more acute. The B 145 is already completely overburdened, and in addition, the traffic on this road that leads between mountains and lakes, through natural disasters such as walls and avalanches, always comes to an end over a longer period of time. A railway link is an essential element in the supply and maintenance of school and work routes and is also urgently needed for tourism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A proper transport concept has been missed. The ÖBB argues the closure of the stops with time-consuming reasons. In addition, the following facts: A two-fold mother came to me and told me that their children cannot get on the train. The train still stops at this closed station because there is a meeting zone of the trains, but passengers are not allowed to get in and out. They don't understand that. That's why I brought in the petition against the station closures of the train connection on this section in the Salzkammergut. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] That in times like this one the train can no longer stop at every pile, because speed and time pressure also play a role, is probably clear to everyone, but closing three stations in a row is a very negative sign and in the sense of climate-friendly movement definitely a step backwards. Since two SPÖ-led communities are directly affected here, I would also like to make it quite clear that this is always about me. I am confident that we can also work together with the coalition partner on a solution, because a climate-friendly move does not only work with the climate ticket. I'll stick to this thing, or I'll say it at home: Only the letter is given up!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22185	Mr Robert Laimerist, Member of the Commission. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22209	Mr President. I now come to SPÖ and ÖVP stations to a special geopolitical situation, namely Israel and Palestine, peace and neutrality. Ladies and gentlemen! More than three years ago, the citizens’ initiative “Acknowledging the State of Palestine by Austria” was now sunk by the government parties in the Committee on Petitions instead of being debated in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. From our point of view, on the basis of the Oslo Agreements of 1993 and 1995, the perspective for the creation of a two-state solution between Israel and Palestine is to be maintained. Who cares about Jerusalem – in German sense: Founding peace – satisfied, it can also make a huge step towards global peace. However, those who feel no will and don't set signs, rather like Trump moving and provoking the U.S. message to Jerusalem, are in no way interested in a two - nation solution. In this context, the wise former German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt has often analyzed the clash of three world religions in this city with its historical conflicts, i.e. only by political will a lasting resolution of conflict is possible. The violent conflict between Israelis and Palestinians in Austria has brought about: ==References== May, on the eve of the day of the signing of our State Treaty, the Israeli flag was held at the Federal Chancellor's Office and at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The acting persons were the then Federal Chancellor and today's clubman of the ÖVP and the then Foreign Minister and today's Federal Chancellor. The President of the Federal Republic of Germany was only informed of this action. Ladies and gentlemen! 66 years ago, Austria regained its sovereignty. This was not a matter of course after Austria had both the years before it. Victims as well as perpetrators. When we recall the Oslo Agreements of the 1990s, we know who was called in the whole world as one of the spiritual fathers of these agreements: It was Bruno Kreisky – a statesman who did not distinguish the world in black and white, not in good and evil. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer]] That is exactly where we need to go back in order not to fuel further polarization with possible further fatal global effects. Let us follow the example of a good tradition in the Second Republic and confess to the constant neutrality, not only as a lip commitment to the National Day, but rather in responsibility for our country and its identity – where neutrality to the Era Schüssel was a fixed component: a fixed component of Austrian foreign policy, a fixed component in the sense of dialogue, a fixed component in the sense of negotiation and, as a consequence, perhaps also reconciliation and reconciliation. At present we have a completely unstable geopolitical situation, a so-called world disorder. We have all our hands to do, also as the Republic of Austria, to re-establish an active neutrality policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22271	The next speaker is Mr Christian Lausch. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22295	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, I can and want to join with what Mr Bernhard said – I have been in the Committee on Petitions for a number of years and I am now a substitute member of this committee. It was terrifying when I was in the committee at the last meeting - I can only thank him - how quickly things, petitions, the citizens' initiatives, which are of course a major concern to the people, to the citizens. It's never been so funny! In addition – this time, however, this was not so bad, because there were still a lot of opinions missing – the funeral of the first class, the notice. In my opinion, there should be a cross-party consideration here: More allocations to the specialist committees mean more appreciation of the citizens who sign this. And above all, you should not wipe it all away so quickly! The Committee had given itself much longer time than it actually needed. That's bag, bag, bag, and it was all over. As Mr Bernhard rightly said: It's never been that bad. Very briefly on the petitions that have been concluded today: I would like to congratulate Carinthia on the fact that there is a counting point there – a toll counting station or a traffic counter. This is also great for the ÖVP, the Chancellor's Party, which is in the government that you have achieved this and is satisfied with it. With regard to diesel privilege, I have to say, of course, that this has its authority, and I must point out that Rudi Silvan, whom I personally appreciate very much and with which in Lower Austria very much goes in traffic, must point out one thing: You have to be careful, because if you criticise the traffic link in Zwettl on the one hand and say it's a challenge to come to Vienna, you have to go over Gmünd, then I don't think the commuter is driving a Maserati in the Waldviertel. What's he gonna do? – Well, a cheap diesel car, I suppose, and with the rapid abolition of the diesel privilege you find of course also very many commuters in rural areas. This is an area where, as Mr Silva rightly said, public transport is not well developed and people depend on their cars. These people, the commuters, are mostly driving a diesel vehicle, and there is, of course, already a contradiction here when one comes here and criticizes the bad railway connection, but says that diesel privilege belongs abolished. – This, dear Rudi, is not quite all together somewhere, as the commuters also drive large numbers of diesel vehicles. You should think about it a little bit. Otherwise, I can only thank the chairman Michael Bernhard for doing the thing very well. He's been smoking me a little, he's been doing this for eight years, as he says himself. - No, you can misunderstand that now. Of course, he is already a bit upset, because there is little going on in the Committee on Petitions, where he certainly would like more to go on. That was meant by “smoothed out, ” so no insult in the sense. And I also understand him because it is not always funny if you want more here as chairman, work very hard and do nothing. Unfortunately, it is God's fault, but the ÖVP stands for it – and I ask you not to misunderstand it now – that the ÖVP is going very little further that everything is getting faster and faster and faster, but you are not the party of direct democracy, of civil participation. You've never been, but you're on it too. This is in the sense that you are unusual, but also very honest. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22349	Mr Nikolaus Prinz has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22374	Mr President. Only very briefly on the workings of the Committee on Petitions, especially in the direction of those people who may look at us and do not know the backgrounds. If a petition is made, a citizens' initiative is introduced, then there is a desire for many opinions. These opinions can be looked at by the clubs, can be looked at by the Members, then, as it were, they form an opinion on how to deal with them. This will result in an approval, perhaps an assignment to a committee – which is said to be there – and there is a need to delay or take note of it, because opinions are not yet in place. But there would be no point in transporting citizens' initiatives and petitions for perhaps five or ten years, since there must be decisions! [[Abg. Listen: But you can assign them! Assign!]] If you think of the last meeting, you can say that all the political groups, as far as the duration of the discussion is concerned, have been more reluctant, and that is why it has gone relatively quickly. Mr Laimer, briefly: If you are talking about neutrality, I think one thing is appropriate – that concerning the citizens' initiative regarding the recognition of the state of Palestine: Neutrality means that one has no unilateral access, neither to one side nor to the other. Austria has always offered itself for negotiations – many negotiations have been held in Austria over the last decades, including on the Middle East. And something sober said – that is my deep personal, private opinion –: If you look at the last ten, 15 years in the conflict between Israel and Palestine, you can see that both sides need action, that you may come back to the negotiating table and get closer together to solutions that are sustainable for both sides. A short sentence on the petition regarding the safety failure at Baumgartenberg station – perhaps the colleague Seemayer will then say a few more sentences – would all be so dramatic at Baumgartenberg station. Baumgartenberg is the second largest school location in Perg, and if you, dear Michael, would know the transport concept, you would also know that in Baumgartenberg, in cooperation with the municipality, the state of Upper Austria and the ÖBB, a lot has actually happened in recent years, both under Mayor Erwin Kastner and under the current mayor Gerhard Fornwagner. I can't defend the impression that it wouldn't be on the 26th. September this year a municipal council election and a country election that would not have given the petition because of how to design the station even better in Baumgartenberg everything stands. This will be submitted next year accordingly and implemented in 2023. The Baumgartenbergers help together, they are well-known for this, so for example, the Europagymnasium also looked at the final times of class class teaching in the school for a little bit of this to be ordered. This is a good solution that will be implemented. But that's just that – that's part of politics – if you believe that something has to be raised, even if it has not been useful, that it has not been used politically. The ÖVP has clearly won the mayor's election and the municipal council election, because people know who works on a sustainable basis. – In this sense: A nice evening!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22410	Mr Michael Seemayer is the next speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22435	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Prince, thank you for already announceing me and explaining the subject in terms of content, which saves me a little time. As far as safety defects at Baumgartenberg station are concerned, it has been announced – yes – that these deficiencies will be eliminated for 2023. It is always done when the construction measures are actually complete. Until then, there is also the right to point out with the petition. It is important to me today to say to the petition: The Baumgartenberg station was also the subject of the Transport Committee, and one could have assigned this petition to the Transport Committee that it should not have been taken note of. That would be exactly what the students and the signatorys deserved: that they give it a little weight. In view of the fact that it has always been criticised that everything is taken into account or erased from the table, we would have done nothing wrong with an assignment to the Transport Committee in this history. It would have been inside. What makes me particularly happy is that we have a petition for the care bonus at the entrance meetings. It's about the care bonus for everyone. We have been demanding this for a long time, and that is with good law, as you can see – the care bonus has not yet been paid out. Ladies and gentlemen deserved this. First of all, not everyone gets him – this is the problem: that there are many people working in the medical transport, or also cleaning staff in the hospitals that pay the care bonus. not to get – and those who should get him have not yet. That is why, I believe, this petition continues to have an important task. I hope you don't just take note of them and say: Okay, something's done anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22471	It is now possible to speak. Friedrich Ofenauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22495	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My venerations Ladies and gentlemen. Many petitions and citizens' initiatives deal with the issue of noise, including the petition that I have brought in and which also bears the name: Stop the noise! It is about the traffic noise in the area of the municipality of San Margarethen an der Sierning. This municipality is located between Sankt Pölten and Melk in Lower Austria on the A 1 and on the freight train. The aim of this petition is to measure and announce noise pollution, a common approach to noise reduction by the Asfinag and the ÖBB and the rapid implementation of noise protection measures. The situation on the ground is such that the A 1 West motorway has been three-tracked since 2003 and in April 2019, on average, 75 271 vehicles per day have passed through this area of the West Railway. In addition, there has been since 2017, or 2018 with the start-up, the freight transport system that runs in this area, and therefore, of course, there is also a cumulation effect of noise. The existing noise protection walls on the A 1 West motorway are now 20 years old, made of wood, harmful, and it is precisely the question whether these noise protection walls still correspond to the state of the art, on the one hand because they are already harmful, partly even have holes, on the other hand, but also because the average daily traffic has increased dramatically. In 2002 an average daily traffic of more than 52 000 vehicles was used, and in 2019 the average daily traffic was already over 71 000 vehicles. Unfortunately, the comments received have not been received, the question is whether the forecast, the planning in 2002 of which was based on the current traffic at that time or a traffic forecast was made. If no traffic forecast was made, an obsolete noise protection wall would have been built during construction. On the other hand, there is no noise protection wall and a gap in the area between Eigendorf and Kainratsdorf, which, of course, is also duly problematic for noise development. Several opinions were received in the Committee's proceedings. On the part of the ÖBB, it was informed that all measures relating to the establishment and start-up of freight trains were taken, that noise limits would also be observed and that only more quiet trains would be used from 2024 onwards. Ms. Federal Minister Geessler has indicated that the damage to the wooden noise protection wall on the A1 has already been corrected. However, I inquired on the spot and received the information that this is obviously not the case. That is to say, it might also be possible to review this from the Asfinag side, just as I would suggest in principle to check at the Asfinag whether this noise protection wall on the one hand corresponds to the design, on the other hand, to the state of the art as regards the current average daily transport.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22538	Mrs Mag.a Dr.in Maria Theresia Niss. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22559	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! Last day the Council of Ministers decided on the budget was a good day, not only because it is a sustainable budget, but above all because it also decided to extend the National Foundation by 2025 and to an annual amount of 140 million euros. Now many will ask themselves: What is the National Foundation? – The National Foundation is a non-profit foundation whose foundation is used exclusively for top-level research – in the framework of basic research, as well as applied research – and which is intended to enable disruptive research to be carried out so that we can expand the technology leadership in many areas, such as the semiconductor industry, but above all, we also enable the transfer of knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen, one example is the Christian Doppler lab. For example, I would like to mention the Voest. Ladies and gentlemen, the Voest is an Austrian company that is particularly competitive, and it would not be if there were not the Christian Doppler lab and the transfer of knowledge. There were 300 laboratories there, and there the steel was developed in such a sustainable way that it is not only internationally competitive, but that it is above all the most environmentally friendly steel worldwide. You see, I'm very happy. It was intense efforts that we made there. I would also like to thank the relevant research ministers, especially the Federal Ministry of Education, Science and Research, who have actively contributed to our being able to implement this and thus over-fulfil the petition. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens]] Ladies and gentlemen, why I am so very pleased, because the means are available in addition to many research resources that we have obtained in the budget. These are more than 300 million euros in science and basic research in the next four years, but also 400 million euros in hydrogen, microelectronics and applied research. We thus ensure that Austria can actively participate in the digital but also in the ecological transformation – and that is good, important and sustainable. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are not only burdening people with this budget, we are not only working to keep the economic location competitive – I only call the eco-social tax reform here – but we are also ensuring that the research site is safeguarded in a sustainable way, and that is future-looking. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] That is also what I expect from a Federal Government in the future. Leave I should therefore like to point out, ladies and gentlemen: Forward-looking policy has always been the government's main focus in recent years, it's now, and it will continue to be under a government of the present coalition, which is mainly working on the government's point-by-point programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22628	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur, Mrs Mag.a Fischer, want a final word? - That's not the case. Before we enter the voting process, I ask the clubs if there is any need for interruption. – There is no need for interruption. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, its report 1094 of the supplements relating to petitions No. 7, 40, 46 and 47, 56 and 59, as well as the citizens' initiatives No. 3 and 35. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[20:30:21]] 15. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the National Food Action Plan – Series BUND 2018/56 (III-13/1045 D.B.) 16. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on selected areas of health insurance; Follow-up review – BUND series 2018/64 (III-16/1050 d.b.) 17. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors report on psychosocial offers in the countries of Salzburg and Styria – BUND 2019/9 series (III-25/1053 D.B.) 18. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors report on the ZEPTA IT project – BUND 2018/54 series (III-12/1055 d.b.) 19. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the ZEPTA IT project of the Pension Insurance Institute and the subsequent standard product ePV; Follow-up review – BUND 2021/9 series (III-250/1056 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22712	We shall now proceed to items 15 to 19 of the agenda on which the debates will be held under one. However, there was no oral reporting. Mr Andreas Kühberger has now been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22747	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! Thank God we have the possibility in Austria that we have at any time a variety of healthy and high-quality foods at our disposal. This security of supply, ladies and gentlemen, is not a matter of course. Allow me, at this point, to thank the employees of the entire food chain, but above all also our farmers for the high-quality food they produce here in Austria, which are also very healthy – and I also have a Styrian apple as a sign today – for this sustainable production. [[Keeping an apple in height]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Despite these many healthy foods, which we produce here in Austria, our population is still a subject of obesity and obesity. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, the WHO has also found that this disease – because overweight is actually the basis for many serious diseases – is widespread here in Austria, but also in the other Western states. That is why the WHO, together with the EU, has launched national action plans on nutrition, and today we have a report from the Court of Auditors on the Austrian Food Action Plan, which the Court of Auditors has reviewed for the years 2011 to 2016. All in all, the Court of Auditors noted that the impact of this food plan on Austrians is good, that much has been done better. But of course there have also been some criticisms, such as that content objectives have been formulated too generally. There were also no measurable indicators for the achievement of the goal. However, there were also many projects that were very positive, such as “Eating right from the beginning ” or“ Feeding in old age. ” I would like to mention a special project today, our school buffet, the healthy school buffet. Why do I want to mention this today? – Because we also have a school buffet in our middle school in my home community, in Mautern in Obersteiermark. This project was very successful. What happened? – Children and young people have been made healthy food tasty, and this is really a success, ladies and gentlemen. Value added has also increased because these healthy foods come home from regional circles. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If that is possible in my home town of Mautern in small, then – and this is also a recommendation from the Court of Auditors – it is also possible to expand across Austria. A recommendation is also that we give children and young people at school something about healthy nutrition and about healthy food. And we too, ladies and gentlemen, can be a model for our youth by taking, as I am today – I have taken a Styrian apple – healthy food. [[Keeping the apple in height again]] We are in the middle of the AP error, about two thirds are already introduced, a third still needs to be harvested. Today it is frosted by a third less apples, our farmers also get to feel the climate change, but I can calm you down, the security of supply is given. However, security of supply can only be given if we reach for domestic food in the future. This means that when we go to a store or when we visit a guest house, we must be models for our children and young people. In this sense, thank you – and I am now enjoying the Styrian aromatic Golden Delicious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22813	Mag. Karin Greiner. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22838	Mr President. At meal, my colleague, a hearty bite into the apple at a later hour, it should be! I also refer briefly to the National Food Action Plan. What exactly did the Court of Auditors review? – He has reviewed the objectives, content, implementation and funding of the projects. What can be derived from this review? – One can conclude that – and this is not the first report, but that has often been the case in the last reports – the data situation is problematic. Why? – The data situation is therefore problematic because it is incomplete and unspecific. Where are data actually generated in the case? – For example, school doctors who carry out the studies of the children at the schools. They have well-founded data on the health status of children, and of course it would be useful if you could access these data – but you can't. Why? – Although the law has been amended, the corresponding regulation is not properly formulated. We discussed this with the Federal Minister for Health and asked him to clean it up as soon as possible. I hope that he will do so so so that we can build on the foundations that my colleague Stöger has already laid on this subject. What problems do the data show? We all know, the colleague mentioned it briefly, experts up to WHO confirm it: The cases of obesity, obesity, malnutrition increase in the form of pandemics. It would therefore, of course, be important for the Member States – which have continued to work out plans to avoid this – to have good data. For example, one really needs to know what causes obesity. Is it the wrong diet or is it too little exercise? That is why I would like to refer once again to the school doctors who could contribute valuable data. The last action plan was presented in 2013, we are really waiting with interest and excitement for the new. It is important so that the measures can be diverted. What do we expect from the Minister of Health? – First, it repairs the regulation as soon as possible, so that data can also be transmitted accordingly, and that it really keeps all parties involved in constructive cooperation. With all those involved, I mean federal government, countries, communities, that is, politics, but I mean also the ÖGK, the Ages and all the other experts who can provide good data material – with the aim, and that must be our objective, that we can derive precise measures in order to make health promotion really work. Many individual measures are not enough, a real health promotion, which is widely effective, should be the goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22878	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gerhard Kaniak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22907	Mr President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! I should also like to refer to the Court of Auditors' report on the Food National Action Plan on Agenda 15. What the Court of Auditors noted during its observation period from 2011 to 2016 actually paints a shocking picture when you ask me. It shows that a very serious topic was treated very thoroughly and that alibi targets were formulated which were in no way appropriate to measure the actual health status of the Austrian population and also the actual nutritional status of the Austrian population and to establish a success of the measures taken. The National Health Action Plan should actually – a target definition – reduce the cases of malnourished, deficiency or over-nutrition and, above all, stop this trend towards obesity and obesity. This is not only the Court of Auditors, but also the question of how to identify this with three objectives, namely the consumption of fruit per capita, the consumption of vegetables per capita and the consumption of sugar per capita. This is a very, very indirect measurement, I would dare to claim an entirely inappropriate measurement size. There are some of these measurements in medicine. I would say that body weight, body mass index and belly size would be very suitable to determine the nutrition status of the Austrian population. And if we were to combine this whole thing in the data collection with actual nutrition-related diseases – high blood pressure, hypercholesterolaemia, diabetes of course and the like – just as the Court of Auditors suggested, then we would have a statement and valid data on which we could assess the success of measures. The three projects carried out during the observation period, for which on average almost half a million euros were spent per year, are all very good, that has already been said by my previous speakers, but whether they actually brought something, whether they were efficient, that stands in the stars and is doubtful. Whoever believes that after the observation period, which was examined, the National Action Plan on Food has been improved, I am sorry to be disappointed. Even the diet action plan still in force today does not provide for any improvement in the sizes of controls or the measures taken. We also asked the Minister of Health of the Court of Auditors what his plans look like, what new goals he would like to define for the next diet action plan, which is already overdue, but unfortunately he has not been able to give us God's answer, he unfortunately has no plan yet. But that the whole thing in reality is a dramatic development, I can illustrate it to you by an example: In recent years until 2019, we have had a gradual but slow increase in obesity in children and adolescents. In the summer of 2019, about 20 percent of Austrian children and adolescents were overweight or obese. In the one year, from 2020 to 2021, the prevalence of obesity and obesity in children and adolescents rose by another 5 percentage points to 25 percent, from 20 to 25 percent prevalence within just one year – and that was the first Corona year. This was the year in which the children and young people were in the distance learning, sports lessons and club activity – and beyond – did not take place, the clubs were locked up at all, and now in further succession We are also confronted with the fact that there are entrance schemes, such as 1- or 2G regulations, sports facilities, indoor sports facilities, but even for annual ski tickets, we need a 1G proof. That is to say, we are now actively taking innumerable measures that keep our children and young people away from movement and sport, and this will not be compensated for with nutrition, ladies and gentlemen, but we have a veritable crisis where we need immediate and rapid action at all levels and where, of course, we also need appropriate data. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[20:43]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23061	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, it is properly put in place and is therefore also under negotiation. This is what Mag.a Ulrike Fischer is talking about. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23093	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is important what we eat, it is important how much we eat, and it is of course important that we are a model for our children. I put myself in the canteen for 1 hour today and looked from the round table, which is so consumed. I found: The later the evening becomes, the healthier we feed, the more we eat and the more sugar we need, and I think we have to sit there. We adults must be a model for our children, and I believe it is very important that awareness raising also goes from us politicians. If we feed on a long-lasting, biological, seasonal and often vegetarian or vegan, it can work. It is up to us all to act – and not only today, when we talk about the Action Plan, but 365 days a year! Our Ministry of Health has looked closely at the Court of Auditors' report, and indeed there will be concrete measures for the next year too. For example, I would like to address the climate plate. In public procurement, the climate counter will bring exactly what you demand here today: more regional, more seasonal, more biological – this is gradually going up. Of course, the countries and municipalities are also required. We have to do this together, but it's about a lot: It's about our health! And those who feed healthy are already the first step towards health. Where we have to start, of course, are the school buffets, because our students often cannot choose what they get to eat in the morning. But in school we can control it. The next step, of course, is the examination of the medical profession, as there is a need for a better exchange between the ministries. The report clearly shows that there are effective measures where we can start, and I hope that we will all work together in the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23133	Next speaker is Mag.a Ruth Becher. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23158	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! In my speech, I refer to the Court of Auditors' report on selected areas in health insurance – the federal government series 2018/64. This is a follow-up review, and this report has special topicality for me, and I am referring to health insurance here. At present, not only because of Corona, we depend on a very efficient health insurance fund, and the current occasion is also the reduction in health insurance contributions planned by Greens and ÖVP in the course of the tax reform. The Austrian health insurance fund expects a loss of EUR 850 million, and of course immediately came the legitimate criticism of the health insurance fund. At first glance, the contributions of employees and employers are falling and there remains more euro in the wallet, but the return is, the health insurance fund is also lacking secure revenue. If the difference from the budget is covered, This is a matter, because as soon as a savings package threatens, there is also a start, and health care is at stake and possibly higher self retention threatens. But now to the report itself: The implementation of the Court’s recommendations was reviewed at various levels of the Vienna regional health fund and the Steiermärkisches Landeskrankenkasse. Thus, almost all recommendations have been implemented in a majority way, some only in part. In the Federal Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs, Health and Consumer Protection – so at the time the name – there were also outstanding implementations by 2018. One example is that the Ministry was sparse when it created a decree to achieve a better control of the economic efficiency of procurement. The cost of purchasing relief aid has increased considerably in many years, in concrete terms: in 2009 to 2013 annual by 1.4 percent, in the years 2014 to 2016 by an even higher value, i.e. by 4.1 percent each year. The Court of Auditors therefore strongly recommends that cross-border procurement be made possible. In summary, you have to say: In times when the funding of the health system is still on the watchful legs, savings in the field of the Ministry of Health must be used much more effectively. In recent times, this has not been the case, but perhaps it will be better for the new Minister of Health, together with the Court of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23206	The last speaker in this debate is Mr Magistrate. Felix Eypeltauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23230	Mr President. High house! Madam President. Dear spectators! [[The speaker places a laptop on the speaker's desk.]] I'll say it right away, that's not a gag or anything, that's my laptop. The printers don't work, so I have to read or hold my speech about Word. - So much ahead. [[Cheerfulness and applause with NEOS and greens.]] The most beautiful thing is that my last speech here in the House is as a member of the National Council and I can try something new again. But this is not the only new thing I can try out these days: I have the honor, 23rd. In October, as a clubman of NEOS in the Upper Austrian Land Day, I can say goodbye here and today. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Neos, Mr SPÖ and Mr Greens as well as Members of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Woohoo!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am also particularly pleased that I am able to hold my last speech here in the National Council on a Court of Auditors, because I have always – and this is also due to my history, I have started as the Supervisory Committee chairman in Linz – had a great deal of appreciation and an eye to the work of independent control bodies and have always appreciated them. I have especially appreciated not only the cooperation with you, Madam President, in the Committee for which I would like to thank you very much. Madam President, what I would particularly like to stress in your work and in the work of the Court of Auditors is the living independence you have demonstrated, for example with your accusation on party financing. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] There you have, of course, opened open doors with us NEOS if you want to. They have announced that the Court of Auditors will make a legislative proposal. You're right. That is what we have said, too, because everything that has been discussed in Ibiza is still possible. This is, of course, an unsustainable state, and I very much hope that you, ladies and gentlemen, will finally take the consequences from it and take appropriate legal provisions. [[We welcome the NEOS and Mr Maurer and Mr Stögmüller.]] This courage for living independence, Madam President Kraker, is vital to our democracy. It is vital for our democracy that you have this courage that all national accounting authorities have the courage to have this courage. We have seen this – and I have to say that in the context – in the last few days on the basis of the Causa fine, which has shaken and occupied us all, all of Austria. We also see this at the prosecutors' offices, at the WKSTA and at the courts. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Stögmüller.]] We must, and this is an appeal, of course, learn from Ibiza, but, ladies and gentlemen, we must also learn from this causa, from this ad affair – as you would like to call it – and draw the corresponding consequences. As long as Chancellors and ministers can pump more than 200 million euros of advertising money into the media market every year in Austria, we haven't learned anything for so long. We need to improve this urgently, because it simply needs our democracy. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Stögmüller.]] We NEOS have stretched out our hands in the last few days and will, of course, continue to do so because transparency, propensity and enlightenment are simply inside our DNA. We will fight for this and for a functioning democracy, no matter where we are: in the country days, in the councils and, of course, here in the National Council – I know that. It is about making our country better, and I believe that this is possible. I believe that our country, that Austria can be better, that politics can be better, can be more honest, can be more authentic, can be more sincere, and can not least be more human. And you know what's giving me hope? – I am hopeful that in this House I was able to get to know every group of politicians who have this humanity, which has this propriety, this objectivity and this character in which I have so much hope. I am a liberal, and as a liberal, I have a realistic human image, which is: Man is basically good and he can learn, he can get better and he can recognize himself. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This is our task as politicians especially in the period of change, in which we are at the beginning of the 21st century. ==References====External links==* Official website This is your job as a Member of the House, in which I wish you a lot of courage, determination and clarity in the future, and that will also be my task in the Upper Austrian Landtag. I can say goodbye to one: Pfiat eich!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23316	Ladies and gentlemen, we thank you for the good cooperation and wish you every good thing for your personal future, for your work in your home country! No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Court of Auditors and continue to complete the agenda. [[20:55:50]] 20. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on pharmaceutical procurement for selected hospitals in Salzburg and Tyrol – BUND 2019/44 series (III-60/1044 d.b.) 21. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on disability pension New; Follow-up review – BUND 2020/31 series (III-178/1046, e.g.) 22. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on medical care in the established area – BUND 2021/30 series (III-396/1047, D.B.) 23. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on care for childbirth in Lower Austria and Vienna – BUND 2021/2 series (III-221/1048, e.g.) 24. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors report on Psychiatric care in hospitals in Carinthia and Tyrol – BUND 2018/57 series (III-14/1049 d.b.) 25. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the role of the Federal Government in the Austrian Hospital Planning; Follow-up review – BUND series 2018/65 (III-17/1051 d.b.) 26. Point Report of the Court of Auditors of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on Internal Revision and Control Meeting of SVA and VAEB social security institutions – BUND 2019/2 series (III-19/1052 d.B.) 27. Point Report of the Court of Auditors of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the system of financial control of health care – series BUND 2019/47 (III-72/1054 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23422	We now come to the points 20 to 27 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Werner Saxinger has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23450	Mr President. Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to wish Felix all the best, we will surely see you again! Doctor, I don't have a house doctor, mine has retired, and a successor has not yet been found! – I hear that again and again when I say to patients after surgery: Please go to the practical doctor for a seam distance! What does medical care look like in the settled area? This is one of the key areas of health care, and I would like to thank once again all the doctors who have been established in the crisis who have also held the position that has contributed to the functioning of everything, and who are responsible for the immunization. – Thanks to the established doctors! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What has the Court of Auditors looked at? – The Court of Auditors has taken the years 2013 to 2019 and has looked forward to the development of the medical density, the occupations, the post-occupying and the remunerations. In advance, I said: We have supply gaps, but we don't have a supply emergency at Weitem. What to say about the doctor's density? – This is quite different regionally: In 2019, some 1,300 medical staff were missing. In Upper Austria, for example, there has been a 2% increase in planning posts, but the number of occupied posts fell by 4 percent. In Vienna, the number of general medical professionals dropped by 10 percent between 2009 and 2019. The use of specialist doctors increased by 25 percent over this period. What can be said about the occupations? – 2019 were unoccupied from 7 142 jobs in the cash register area 327, of which 189 were unoccupied for lack of applications, especially in the fields of pediatrics and gynecology. The causes were varied: structurally weak regions, strong electorate presence, high workload or low ordination possibilities. The Court of Auditors has also criticized most of the lack of waiting time management. There is no monitoring in Austria; that would be absolutely necessary. What to say about election doctor? – This report contains 170 pages, the subject has been explained in very detailed and detailed terms. The number of election doctors increased by 42 percent in the area of general medicine in ten years – between 2009 and 2019. After these ten years, there were 38 percent more electorate doctors. The theme of primary supply units: We were very ambitious. We wanted to implement 75 by 2019, but it was only 16. The Court of Auditors has also made some recommendations to the Federal Ministry of Health and Health, all of which are very useful. Much is covered by my daily experiences and also by my ten-point programme. But what is far more important, ladies and gentlemen: Some of these are also included in our government programme, for example the attracting of general medicine or the grant of a rural doctor. What do we need in the established medical field? – We need to attract the cash doctor’s posts through new working time models. The time of the 24-hour individual fighter is over. Medicine becomes more female, that is, there must be part-time models at all levels, cooperation is announced. We need increased cooperation with the hospital hospitals: We have the same patients, but we work side by side and not side. Ladies and gentlemen, the population expects us to move forward in this area that we work and do not argue. An improvement would be a lighthouse project, one of the whole Parliament, for the benefit of the Austrians. I'm looking at all the health speakers now: Ralph Schallmeiner, Gerhard Kaniak, Gerald Loacker, Gaby Schwarz. We are very consensual about it, we are not far from each other. [[Calls:Philip Kucher]] - Philip Kucher, excuse me, dear Philip! [[Abg. Kollross: He's not to look at!]] We are very consensual on our way, and we also have the Austrian health insurance fund, I think, in the boat. I'd say, Let's get it started! People would thank us if we closed some supply gaps for their good and create a new thought and one another. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23509	The Philip Kucher mentioned earlier comes to the fore. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23552	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Felix Eypeltauer, with his passionate speech, in which he has expressed so much joy of reform, enthusiasm, such a positive image of man, has in any case caused colleague Saxinger to be enthusiastic. – I haven't had you so excited for a long time. You don't even think you're part of a conservative party. It was a fireworks of passion, of joy of reform. [[Abg. Salzmann: Don't underestimate us!]] I'm very excited. We should all take this basic idea with us in health policy. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] Gerald Loacker may now be a little offended at me, but maybe he'll give me the right. What Felix Eypeltauer said, his image, this positive access – this is a very social democratic approach for me, and I wonder if that would not be the right way for all of you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] In any case, I believe I have heard the long-standing influence of Alois Stöger, who seems to have developed its effect in Upper Austria. I've heard a lot of things out there, maybe you can still clarify this bilaterally. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There has been a very, very exciting Court of Auditors report on medical care. Madam President, I would like to thank you very much, also for the critical remarks. – Yes, this is a huge topic for all of us: medical care in the settled area, especially in rural areas. There's got to be a lot of things going on. There is a topic in the field of specialist doctors, in the field of opening hours we need more transparency, as we need Austrian-wide framework conditions, as so to speak, the data base also needs to be improved. Two requests to everyone – I don't know if Mr. Tashner is here now, but I have been passionately discussing with him yesterday –: Let's see that we are starting to double the number of medical places in Austria as soon as possible! It is a question of justice and equal opportunities for young people that all the young people who want to save lives want to commit themselves and also bring with them the talent that has the chance to study medicine. The second point is: Let's try to see health and care holisticly! We are going to thank God, all of us are getting older and older. Let's start a care offensive with each other! Felix Eypeltauer will accompany us critically, so to speak, from Upper Austria, and the watchful eyes of the President will also accompany us with follow-up reports, which always float like a damocles sword over us. Let us all hope that at least medical care will be started so offensively that the follow-up reports will be full of praise! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23605	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23626	Mr President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! This report by the Court of Auditors was indeed a great act, because there is hardly anything in this Republic that is as complicated, as nested and as difficult to analyze and interpret as Austrian health care. The acribie with which the data was collected and processed and an analysis made is truly remarkable. I believe that this is also a very good basis for further discussions. I have discussed this with Federal Minister Mückstein several times: We certainly need not only one but several separate dates in which we discuss only this issue together. Mr Saxinger has already mentioned this: There is indeed a great need for action. What is the situation, what has the Court of Auditors found? – Mr Saxinger has already mentioned it: At the end of 2019, there were 7 142 planning sites in Austria, unfortunately God had not already occupied 327 cash medical planning sites – paradoxically, partly not occupied – and the situation has, unfortunately, not improved in any way to this day, but quite the contrary: rather worsened. If the argument is put forward that this is perhaps because we currently have too few doctors, this is only due to the fact that if one looks at the fact that over the last ten years the number of electoral doctors has increased by 40 or 50 percent while at the same time stagnating the number of cash doctors, then one can see that there are doctors who go in the settled area, but obviously do not want to accept cash offices. Why is that so? – The Court of Auditors has also looked at this and found that although the population has grown by 6 percent over the last ten years, the number of cash medical consultations, for example among general physicians, has increased by 6 percent, but there are no more cash doctors. The It is said that the work burden of the physicians has actually gradually increased year after year, but not only through patient consultations, but also – and this is not yet taken care of – through the entire bureaucratic effort that comes with it. The Elga introduction, the entire e-card system that has been introduced over the last ten years, the electronic recipe that is now being introduced, the remote regulations that we have continued to implement, the economic constraints of social security, the eco-tools that need to be implemented, the entire authorisation system, which is related to the problem of drug availability, the conversion of patients in non-available medicinal products and the like, all of this is taxing our doctors over a fee and does not find any expression in this 6 percent additional burden that has taken place there. Other things, including economic reasons, should also be mentioned in this context, as the Court of Auditors has also concluded that: In 2019, the average general physician with a cash agreement had an annual income of about 130 000 euros, the average specialist in about 200 000 euros. This discrepancy, of course, also leads to the fact that general medical checkout points are not particularly attractive, and generally the profession of the established general physician, the country doctor, is not very attractive. I could mention many other points that would be urgent to improve. The Court of Auditors has already held a great deal of this in its recommendations and I would therefore like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[21:07]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23753	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23778	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. Before: Thank you for this well prepared report on the cash medical situation from 2013 to 2019 and on the question of medical care during this period. The question of principle, which, of course, has also been asked for us, was: Does Austria have too few doctors? – My previous speaker has just said it: It's not the number of doctors, it's the number of accepted cash contracts, that it's one outside, so to speak, in the big, wide world, as if there were too few doctors in our country. That's exactly what you have to do. One thing is: Why do we have this situation? – When I look at this: The billing arrangements agreed between the health insurance companies and the doctor's board are for the hair gain. In view of the bureaucracy that hits you there – I have looked at several bills myself in individual ordinations – I must say: This is a bureaucracy monster that was created in the meantime. A modern fee system, a modern settlement system between two business partners, would have to look completely different from my point of view. I think there's a lot to do on the part of the ÖGK and the doctor's chamber. On the other hand, there is also an absolute imbalance in the honorary ruptures. My previous speaker just said: In these six years of study, the specialist doctors have had a significant increase in increases when it comes to the fees. The extreme example is laboratory medicine with an average annual income of 691 000 euros from a specialist. According to the report, cost explosions of almost 31 percent have also been created during this period. Another topic that Werner Saxinger rightly mentioned is that the whole system does not actually correspond to the reality of life: Part-time practice or easier access to group practices, sharing of practical posts between several persons – these are still foreign words in this agreement, in this nomenclature between the ÖGK and the health insurance companies on the one hand and the medical board on the other. But there is another problem: There are really too few doctors in some areas because too little training is being done. There are areas where 75 percent of training places are simply not occupied. There is a duty for the countries which have the appropriate training places in the hospitals and do not occupy them. Children's and youth medicine or general medicine are: good examples. Hospitals don't want to train general physicians because they're simply not able to do anything about their logic. That it would bring something at the end of the day, they don't see. Since it is important to take action everywhere, it needs us as a policy in the final effect, but there is also a need for a diverting of the ÖGK, because it also needs a distraction of the doctor's chamber. There's no room in the dark of the stand. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] From our point of view, we need a modern contractual system, and we need a reasonable primary provision, which we can also push with the help of the EU's Recovery and Resilience Facility. The countries are required, as has already been said. I think we have a lot of work to do here, and I am happy to take part in the task that Philip Kucherun has given to everyone. I believe that we will, as a policy, jointly seek and find a solution to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23838	Member Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23862	Mr President. Madam President. High house! We have once again had a meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and Citizens' Rights, and we again have a number of reports – four which we have considered intensively and intensively – and I am allowed to address some of them very briefly now. It has already been said a lot by the previous speakers. Perhaps first of all on the report on disability pension – after that, Mr Loacker will go further –: This is a follow-up report, i.e. the Court of Auditors has examined the extent to which the claims and measures it formulated in the first procedure have been taken into account. That is quite an destructive judgment. There were eight recommendations, of which two were partially implemented and the remaining six were not implemented at all. I'm very glad that's not the rule. Normally it is that in these follow-up reports about 75 percent – so many, I think, were implemented in 2019; last year it was, I think, 76 percent. In other words, this is a follow-up report that you need to look at more closely and where you still have a lot to do from politics. But there are other reports that we have considered and discussed. On the one hand, this is about the established doctors. It has already been mentioned: The Court of Auditors has partly failed to find a database with which to really work. That is, I think, quite an destructive judgment. If there is a situation in which our supporting body, namely the Court of Auditors, cannot even scratch the data – and the Court of Auditors has some specialists and can do so in other very complex areas – in order to find a basis for a report, then this is something that needs to give us thought and where, as a policy, we must also take steps rapidly that there is this data base. If we do not know how the established doctors are specifically regional, what opportunities there are, how the utilization is, then it is not possible for the ministry to carry out a corresponding planning. Mr Loacker will then also make a request to create this very database, because this must be a central steering instrument in our health policy. I would also like to refer to the report on pharmaceuticals. Here too, we see that Austria is anything but well positioned. We have a System – and thus we are one of the last countries in Europe – in which individual medicines and no active substances are prescribed. It is one of the central recommendations of the Court of Auditors that there should be a change as soon as possible in order to be more efficient and clearer and to be at least European in this area. We're very, very far away from that. In general, I believe that we can say about the debate in this committee, and in particular about the requests, that there is a massive need for health care, that there are some construction sites mentioned by the Court of Auditors over the past few years, and that is particularly true if we look at the follow-up report, in which policy has so far taken too few measures. We need to get in the way of that quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23908	Mrs President-in-Office of the Council, Dr Kraker, is speaking. - Please, that's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23929	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am speaking at this point about the Court of Auditors' reports. Today 13 Court of Auditors reports are on the agenda. However, I would just like to say something on individual reports. At the outset, I would like to thank Mr Eypeltauer for his cooperation in the Court of Auditors and for his consideration of the content of the reports. We make reports on a regular basis. It is a comfort for him that we will also present reports to the Landstags and that the Court of Auditors will retain it as the Federal Lands Body and that it will then continue to be able to deal with our reports in the Upper Austrian Landstag. I'd be there too. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] It is a matter of several reports today. The report on the National Food Action Plan has already been mentioned. Then there is the report on pharmacovigilance for hospitals, but I would particularly like to refer to the report on medical care in the established area. It is a report that we have drawn up at the request of the National Council. There was a decision of the National Council. The contract covered 27 topics, and we divided these 27 topics into three examinations, namely for medical care in the established area – we presented this in September – and for medical training – which is still in progress – as well as on health promotion and prevention. The report has already been discussed. The health insurance companies have a statutory service contract. The doctor's chambers don't have them. The board of doctors has held a supply gap and called for additional contractors, but the Court of Auditors has found that – and that has already been said – the underlying key figures of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Austrian Medical Chamber were not suitable to picture the offer of medical services in the established area. There were some problems: The cooperation in group practices was not taken into account, there was no information on the working time of the doctors, there was no meaningful comparison of the opening hours. However, we have found a performance compression both in the field of general medicine and in the specialist field. Then the Utilization since 2009 by 11 per cent and by 21 per cent respectively. However, there was no provision for quantitative supply contracts. What is important is the planning of medical density in the established area. We have said that the objective accuracy in the Austrian structural plan is too low, because we believe that the indicative values are not sufficiently differentiated regionally – there is a wide range of plus/minus 30 percent – and they were based on the last available state and not on supply targets. As particularly affected by negative deviations, we have seen the western Upper Styria, the Mühlviertel and Liezen. The job planning process was such that 4.6 percent of the planning sites were unoccupied. However, some were also held free for group practices et cetera, others in turn because there were no corresponding applications. The job planning was not transparent. The supply situation must therefore be considered regionally in conjunction with a qualitative analysis. We also point to the age structure of the medical profession, because a significant proportion is already over 60 years old. We have made the following recommendations: The Ministry of Health and the Austrian Health Fund should further develop outpatient planning at the level of the Austrian Health Structure Plan. These should provide for greater regional differentiation, a separate view of supply and demand, and target values derived from the intended supply. The health insurance fund, together with the competent national doctor’s board, should develop the medical establishment plans in such a way as to allow a comparison between planned and actually occupied plans and to provide clear targets. We also consider that regular reporting of the Austrian Health Fund on medical care by region and sector is necessary. This is necessary for effective health planning. From our point of view, there is not enough waiting time monitoring, which affects the ordinations even at the end of the day. Of course, the number of electoral doctors has increased considerably, both in general medical practice. The sector as well as the specialist sector, but its supply effect was only 5.5 percent of outpatient care. We have also found that, in a close relationship with the establishment of the Austrian Health Fund, individual local health telephones have agreed on above average high fees increases in 2018. The legal limit on expenditure was limited in effect. For us, it would be important for us to have a higher quality or a higher quantity of services. As far as primary supply is concerned, only 16 primary supply units were implemented; the target was 75 by the end of 2021. There was a lack of a corresponding approach to change management and incentives to change into this new supply infrastructure. There were no clear guidelines on their use for the extra resources made available. We therefore recommend making a strategy to force primary supply networks. Follow-up reviews have been addressed. As far as the disability pension is concerned, we actually have a small implementation rate of 25 percent, which is going down. In principle, follow-up checks are in place to determine whether a problem has been solved. That was not solved, and we believe, that the recommendations need to be followed even further. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24017	Mr Gahr is speaking on behalf of the European Democratic Group. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24039	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Court of Auditors has examined the procurement of medicinal products in Austria on two specific examples: the Landeskrankenhaus Salzburg and the Innsbruck University Hospital. This review focused on the prices, purchasing and security of supply of medicines. Especially with regard to the Corona pandemic, it is about maintaining and ensuring security of supply in Austria. The Court of Auditors has therefore found critical that there have been supply bottlenecks. In 2018, the pharmacy of the Salzburger Landeskrankenhaus received 870 reports on delivery passports, and the Anstaltsapotheke in Innsbruck had more than 600 reports. The Court of Auditors has also shown that there is currently a lack of antibiotic and anti-cancer drugs – not only in Austria, but worldwide – that there is a potential risk of patient care and that there is an additional cost when medicines have to be purchased on the free market. This crisis, these bottlenecks exist in the European Economic Area, but also worldwide. It was necessary to make replacements for many therapies. The delivery bottlenecks are also associated with higher costs. For example, 53 million euros had to be spent in Salzburg, with 77 million in Innsbruck. The Court of Auditors therefore recommends setting up a central evaluation body to determine EU average drug prices. This report has clearly shown us: There must be improvements in the security of supply of medicines and protective clothing. We need clear plans and clear rules for this. One thing has also become clear in this pandemic: We need to strengthen the security of supply with medicines in Europe. We must not rely on overseas or on countries such as China and India. As a Tyrolean, I am pleased that it has succeeded in ensuring and expanding Novartis in Kundl as a site and thus ensuring the production of antibiotics in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Our goal must be to achieve greater independence and security of supply in Europe in the future. Thank you very much, Madam President, for this informative Court of Auditors report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24091	Member of the Seemayer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24112	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! A few words on the follow-up report on individuality pension New: Invalidity pension New has replaced the temporary invalidity pension. At the time, the aim was to: increase the actual retirement age by more reintegration into the labour market. This should be made possible especially through medical and professional rehabilitation, supervised by the newly created case management. However, as the report shows, reintegration into the labour market is only a very small part. The estimated employment rate of 60 percent has not been reached in the case of weitems, it is only 10 percent. The ratio of rehabilitators to those who are in re-training also shows the problem: In 2018 about 21,200 people were rehabilitators and only 120 were in occupational reha, for example in re-training. A forecast savings of more than 600 million euros has also not been achieved, and costs have even increased. As this development has, of course, already taken place in recent years and very few adaptations have taken place, action is now urgently needed. However, the figures in this report also suggest that a large proportion of those concerned cannot or only very difficult to reintegrate into the labour market. Why is that so? – To find out, you have to answer a few questions, such as: Are the medical rehabilitation measures effective? Will they also be accepted? Why are so few in professional reha or do re-training or further training? Why are the measures for occupational rehabilitation in the event of a threat of disability hardly granted? Does the case management work? - And some more. A major challenge will, of course, also be the rising number of mental diseases in the future. Around two thirds of rehabilitation workers suffer from mental illness. The number of days of illness, which have a mental illness as a cause, is also increasing sharply. There would be an urgent need for a significant improvement in the co-operation between the institutions and the timely establishment of measures. The Rehageld New model is intended to enable the labour market to remain and not to lead workers to long-term unemployment. There's an urgent need for improvements.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24158	Member of the Stögmüller has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24179	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like Madam President-in-Office of the Council! I would like to draw up a point in the convoluted report of the Court of Auditors, which seems very important to me personally, namely the lack of regulation and the lack of sensitivity to prescription. This is about lobbying, influence and finally corruption prevention. A good example of this is the legal regulation that doctors prescribe drugs based on trade names. What does that mean? – That is, the doctor decides which medicine to buy and finally pay from the health insurance fund. But where such a system leads, you can see quite well in the USA: There's an opioid crisis there. What exactly happened there? – Doctors have prescribed strong pain medications, which were a high risk of addiction. Many affected were therefore dependent on such strong opioids. The doctors have these medicines under This is another reason why they have committed themselves to doing something about it with lecture fees from pharmaceutical companies, from large companies. They received the money because they prescribed these drugs. The result was and is a serious social and health crisis. Just to illustrate a little what that means, and to get it to the point: In the USA, 93,331 people died of this overdose in 2020. This means that more people die from opioids each year than from weapons or car accidents. It can be prevented. This is a social problem and, as has been said, a health crisis. The alternative and the answer would be if doctors no longer decide which medications are actually purchased, but only what active substance a patient needs. Then the pharmacy will always have to release the cheaper preparation with the same active substance. This would significantly reduce the influence of pharmaceutical companies on the decision to buy medicines. Our Minister of Health has very probably also announced in the Committee that this situation will be clarified by allowing for an active substance prescription. I am particularly pleased, especially when you see how much pharmaceutical companies can already cost themselves lobbying around the medications. For example, the Court of Auditors expects that in 2017 alone, around 140 million euros have been paid directly to experts and institutions. However, further steps are also to be taken on the basis of this Court of Auditors report. We have thus learned from the Committee that in the revised federal states, for example, the procurement law, which should lead to transparent and cost-effective procurement by public authorities, is actually not complied with at all. It would certainly be good to stand by the countries and try together to put these procurement processes on transparent and also good legs. I think that would be necessary. In the implementation of these central recommendations of the Court of Auditors, the Federal Government could, in other words, bring in its expertise and experience in the field of public procurement and thus assist the countries as a good partner in these improvements of the purchase. After all, it is about all our tax money, and we owe it to taxpayers and they are obliged to spend their money with care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24227	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'm glad. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24249	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors. High house! The reports that are now being dealt with rightly fill an evening. We could talk about it much longer because there is a lot of substance in it, which has often been discussed in the Committee on Health or Social Affairs in recent years, but nothing has happened. These are things that have already been said to the then Minister of Health Oberhauser or to the then Minister of Social Affairs of Hundstorfer. Among other things, the Court of Auditors has been concerned with finding out: What about the established medical care? The data collection was already a problem, so find out how many doctors work like many hours in which region because the data quality is so bad. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] We hope to have better data next time the Court of Auditors sees it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Under Rudi Hundstorfer, invalidity pensions for under 50 years of age were converted into rehabilitation allowance. The goal was that every year 2 700 people come back to work over rehabilitation. The target was missing at Weitem. In the year observed, it was 120 instead of the 2 700 target – so in reality, as many people went in early retirement as before. The political goal of Rudi Hundstorfer, the statistics to be beautiful and the retirement age seem to be screwing up, however, has worked because the rehabilitation pensioner does not count as a pensioner, but the disability pensioner already does. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Thus, the statistics of the Rudi Hundstorfer were more beautiful, and at one time people apparently retired a year and a half later. The aim was to save 650 million euros over five years. This was not done, but the additional costs now amount to 500 million in a year. So we have created a new model that does not bring people anything and provides taxpayers with additional costs. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Of eight recommendations, two have been partially and six have not been implemented at all. That was Rudi Anschober, and as I saw in the committee, it's Minister Mückstein just as much. Please, Madam President, stay with me! We'll stay on it, too. This is at the expense of taxpayers, and this can be done much better in terms of human health. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[21:35]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24380	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. Next word is reported to honourable Member Pöttinger. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24404	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! A great thanks for the review, for the follow-up review on disability pension – under quotation marks, because that was 2014 – “New”. I also looked at in whose area that fell from 2014 to 2018 – the review was then in August 2019 – namely in the by Rudi Hundstorfer, then Stöger, Oberhauser, Rendi-Wagner, Hartinger-Klein, Pöltner and Zarfl. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] What is it about, or what should this reform do? – It is about rehabilitation before retirement, and those affected do not receive a temporary disability pension, but rehabilitation or rehabilitation allowance in addition to medical and occupational rehabilitation measures. I believe that the goal of bringing those concerned back to working life should be our concern. The Court of Auditors rightly gave some recommendations. Unfortunately, the reform has not achieved the desired effect. Two key points of the recommendations are also very comprehensible to me: The calculation period for the amount of rehabilitation should be extended – that would be much more fair – and the need-higher and more necessary factors should ensure a fairer system. In my opinion, however, consideration should also be given to a evasion of occupational protection. From my point of view, a round table with the relevant ministries, with the PVA, would be very useful with the ÖGK to make a more efficient system. It should be noted that there has now been an agreement between PVA and ÖGK in the financing of case management. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24447	Mr Kollross is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24468	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen. Values Advisors! Madam President, as so often we meet in plenary at the late hour. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you and your team very much for the very detailed and good reports that, at least in theory and hopefully also in practice, help us politically. I would like to make a few comments on the report on medical care in the settled area, because I believe that, unfortunately, this report shows us very impressively where there are gaps in this area and where the necessary policy areas would be used to refocus medical care in all areas. For example, the report shows – it has already been mentioned several times today – that there are 327 planned places which are not currently occupied in the field of general medicine and the specialist sector, with a current reference to 2019. But we all know the development, that is, we must assume that these 327 planning sites have become no less, but in reality more. Regarding the field of specialist doctors, we also see, above all, that we have strong gaps in the field of pediatricians and women's medicine. We all see in our constituencies too, I assume that we really need urgent action in the field of specialist doctors. We also see in this report the gap between the electorate doctors on the one hand and the practical doctors on the other. In the debate in the Court of Auditors Committee with the Minister of Health, who also participated, we all agreed, I believe, that urgent action is needed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I just had the impression that in this area, the Ministry of Health lacked a little of the concept and the strategy as we really counter it. That is why, I believe, it is all the more important that there is this report that we should pay attention to it. and that one really tries to set health policy accents so that medical care can be improved above all in the rural sector – I say now as a local politician. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24513	Mr Litschauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24535	Madam President. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I just wanted to get in touch. I am from Waidhofen on the Thaya in the forest district, where we have recently had problems with the post-occupying of doctors. Much more has met us that in 2016 the birth centre in the hospital Waidhofen closed. I took this on the occasion and looked at the report submitted by the Court of Auditors to the birth centres and the care. That was very interesting, I would like to thank you for that. The data situation is very good, especially as regards transfers of patients and children. The subject, however, which concerns me a little bit, is the accessibility of, for example, birth aid stations. In the forest district we have quite the problem that by closing the birthplace in Waidhofen at the Thaya the distances to Zwettl and to Horn are partly very large. In winter, when it's smooth when it's foggy, the driving time is going to be even longer, and it's going to be a problem. We, after the station had closed, also partially noticed that there were births on the way to the hospital because the way was too far. That is, I think, a point we do not want. That would be a little bit my suggestion, if you could look at yourself a little bit in the future, as you can see with the ways to these birth stations. These reports are always very informative, and I think that would be a very interesting point in terms of birth, but also for the control investigations. Also the public connections are partly not easy for the patients. I think that should be a quality criterion. I have read that the criterion is actually that you arrive there in 45 minutes, and this is true of us in the forest district, I think, very often not. The birthplace in Waidhofen on the Thaya was, I think, very good. She had very good indicators, the patient satisfaction was very high. The only number that did not fit at the time was the number of births. That was 307 per year, and that was below the recommended size, and it must be noted that this was the recommended size. Nevertheless, with all the consequences we now have for the patients, it was decided to close this station. This is also a very important issue for me, because closing stations means that the doctors in the hospitals are getting fewer, and that means that we also have problems with emergency medical care, but also when re-occupied by doctors. That is why it is very important to me that we maintain this supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24575	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - No, I don't. [[21:44:52]] Vote on agenda items 15 to 27
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24601	We shall come to the vote moved on the reports of the Committee on Auditors, which I shall make separately. Can we vote? - Please. Agenda item 15: Opinion on the request from the Committee of the Regions to take note of the report on the National Food Action Plan, III-13 of the Supplements. This has been adopted unanimously. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kaniak, colleagues, on the promotion of 'healthy nutrition, sport and movement'. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. Agenda item 16: Request from the Court of Auditors, the report on selected areas of health insurance; Follow-up review, III-16 of the supplements, to take note. This has been adopted unanimously. Agenda item 17: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on psychosocial offers in the countries of Salzburg and Styria, III-25 of the Supplements. I'm asking for a handsign. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda item 18: Request of the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on the ZEPTA IT project, III-12 of the supplements. This is also unanimously adopted. Agenda item 19: Request of the Court of Auditors Committee to take note of the report of the Committee of Auditors on the ZEPTA project of the Pensions Insurance Agency and the subsequent standard product ePV; Follow-up review, III-250 of the supplements. Who's for it? – This is also unanimously adopted. Agenda item 20: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on the procurement of medicinal products for selected hospitals in Salzburg and Tyrol, III-60 of the supplements. This is also unanimously adopted. Agenda item 21: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of the Court of Auditors' report on invalidity pension New; Follow-up review, III-178 of the supplements. This is also unanimously adopted. Agenda item 22: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on medical care in the established area, III-396 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. Debates of the European Parliament Gerhard Kaniak, colleagues on “Safeguarding of medical care in rural areas”. Who gives him an approval? – This is the minority, rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Gerald Loacker, colleagues, on ‘Implementation of the Court of Auditors’ recommendation on the quality of data relating to medical care in the established area’. Who's for it? – This is also the minority, rejected. Agenda item 23: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on child care provision in Lower Austria and Vienna, III-221 of the Supplements. Who agrees? – This has been unanimously noted. Agenda item 24: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on psychiatric care in hospitals in Carinthia and Tyrol, III-14 of the supplements. This is also unanimously adopted. Agenda item 25: Request from the Court of Auditors, the report on the role of the Federal Government in the Austrian Hospital Planning; Follow-up review, III-17 of the supplements, to take note. This is also unanimously adopted. Agenda item 26: Request of the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on Internal Revision and Control Meeting of SVA and VAEB social security bodies, III-19 of the Supplements. This is also unanimously adopted. Agenda item 27: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on the system of financial taxation in the field of health care, III-72 of the supplements. Whoever does this is asked for a sign of consent. – This is unanimously accepted. [[21:48:54]] 28. Point Report of the Immunity Committee on the request of the Council of Magistrates of the City of Vienna (GZ. MBA/210000025592/2021) for approval of the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council. Dr. Martin Graf(10)97 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24844	We come to Agenda item 28. There was no oral reporting. There is no word, the debate is closed. [[21:49:02]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Immunities in 1097 of the Supplements. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. The agenda is exhausted. [[21:49:37]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24895	I am allowed to announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications for 1981/A(E) by 2010/A. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations is scheduled for 21.49 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
