ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e10416	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 129. Meeting of the National Council and may ask you to take your seats. I should like to welcome all the Members of this House to us, including the members of the Federal Government. I greet the journalists and also the ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens. At the same time, I can say that the gallery for visitors is not available today, so that Members and journalists can move better in this very tense time. At 10 a.m., I will be able to welcome the Swiss National Council President here at the gallery. [[It was in favour of ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] We are, you know, in a challenging situation again, and I may ask you: Imagine the commoner, in particular the choice of words, then we will be able to do something in good atmosphere in these next four days! [[Abg. Bösch: If you take it together, Mr President.]] That is what we all wish for, and I believe it is important that our spectators can also perceive it in this way. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The official protocols of 125 and 126. Meeting of 13. ==References====External links== Meeting of 14. October 2021 are present in the Parliamentary Directorate and have not been challenged. As prevented, MEPs are reported Dipl.-Ing. Georg Strasser, Elisabeth Feichtinger, BEd BEd, Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, Herbert Kickl, Wolfgang Zanger, Michel Reimon, MBA, Dr. Astrid Rössler, Mag. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, MESund Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. [[09:07:36]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e10492	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notice that Deputy Magistrate. Felix Eypeltauer has renounced his mandate and, in his place, Mrs MMag. Katharina Werner, Bakk.in the National Council was appointed. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I can immediately make a fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the writer, I may ask you, Madam Member, to give your oath with the words “I promise”. I can ask Mr Schalmeiner to read the vow formula. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e10532	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e10568	Thank you very much. We would like you here at your workplace in plenary and in the committees the very best and that you find yourself in good faith in the Community. The Parliamentary Directorate and its staff will do everything they can to support your work as much as possible. [[09:08:52]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e10589	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: Minister of Defense Mag. Klaudia Tanner is represented by the Federal Minister for Digitalization and Economic Location Dr. Margarete Schramböck, Federal Minister for Labour Mag. Dr. Martin Kocher will be by Ms. MMag. Dr Susanne Raab, Federal Minister for Women, Family, Youth and Integration. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e10638	The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e11013	I can tell you that the seventh report of the Incompatibilities Committee was distributed to the members of the National Council. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e11031	In accordance with § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure prior to the entry into the agenda requested urgent consideration of the self-employed amendment tabled at the same time 2011/A(E) by Mrs Belakovich, colleagues on ‘No discrimination against healthy people – Yes to Plan B against Corona’. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at 3 p.m. I may announce that the ORF will transfer the meeting as usual to ORF 2, to 1915 in ORF III and then comment in the TV library. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e11058	It is proposed that the debates on points 1 and 2 and 3 and 4 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e11079	Consensus on the design and duration of the debates was reached between the members of the presidential conference. According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure have been agreed for the present day a day block time of 9.5 ‘Vienna hours’, so that the following speaking times arise: 185 minutes for the ÖVP, 128 minutes for the SPÖ, 105 minutes for the FPÖ, 95 minutes for the greens and 76 minutes for the NEOS. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the day of today of those Members who do not belong to a club, each 38 minutes. The speaking time per contribution will be limited to 5 minutes. For Wednesday, 17th. November 2021 a day block time of 9 “Vienna hours” was agreed, i.e.: 176 minutes for the ÖVP, 122 minutes for the SPÖ, 99 minutes for the FPÖ, 90 minutes for the greens and 72 minutes for the NEOS. For those Members who do not belong to a club, the total speaking time is 36 minutes, 5 minutes per debate. For Thursday, 18th. November 2021 a day block time of 8 “Vienna hours” was agreed, i.e.: 156 minutes for the ÖVP, 108 minutes for the SPÖ, 88 minutes for the FPÖ, 80 minutes for the greens and 64 minutes for the NEOS. For those Members who do not belong to a club: 32 minutes speaking time, as usual, a limit of 5 minutes per debate. The members of the Presidential Conference set out for the deliberations on Agenda items 3 and 4 to be included in the agenda. In any event, the intended breakdowns will be discussed at the end of the day and the meeting will be suspended each time. Resolutions can only be submitted in the case of the respective breakdowns. The term of office for members of the government according to § 57 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure shall not be used. If the 20 minutes exceed for each member of the government responsible for the respective advisory groups, or if the 10 minutes exceed the 10 minutes for each State Secretary responsible for the respective advisory groups, or for each State Secretary responsible for the relevant advisory group, the overdue speaking time shall be taken into account in each case at the time of the respective government group. The speaking time of non-governmental government members or state secretaries shall at least be counted on the time of the respective government group. With the exception of this, the speaking time of the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor in the general debate held under the Budgetary Accompaniment Act shall be as long as it does not exceed the duration of 20 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking times presented for the debates. Whoever is in favour of it and who agrees with it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – unanimously. Well, that's a good start. Let's go into the agenda. [[09:13:12]] 1. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1102 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act establishing a federal law on the grant of a federal grant to the Federal State of Lower Austria on the occasion of the 100-year existence as an independent federal state and a federal law on the financing of the Association for Consumer Information in 2022 as well as the German Federal Law on the execution of certain intervening orders to protect against violence and to protect against interference into privacy, the Law on Fees, the Labour Market Policy Financing Act, the Environmental Funding Act, the School Aid Act 1983, the FTE National Foundation Act, the Bundesmuseen Act 2002 and the Bundestheater Organisation Act (Budgetbehördegesgesetz 2022) (1154 d.b.) 2. Point Report and request of the Budget Committee on the draft federal law amending the SME Funding Act, the Guarantee Act 1977 and the ABBAG Act (1155, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e11173	We come to points 1 and 2 on which the debates are being carried out under one. There was no oral reporting. The debate on Agenda items 1 and 2 also includes the general debate. Mrs Pamela Rendi-Wagner has been reported to speak. Please take the floor, Mrs Delegate.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e11204	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, please give me the opportunity, at the beginning, to address the current dramatic developments in our country. Dear Federal Government! What we all had to experience in the last 48 hours of you is not just one of the many low points of your government's work, it's the sad low point in 20 months pandemic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] While the number of infections to the heights of fast hundreds of people in intensive care stations is fighting for their lives, dozens of people die daily at Corona and the health staff with its forces is at the latest at the end of the day, you fight on open stage, in front of the entire Republic, to blame each other and shift responsibility – that at the height of a pandemic! They leave the Minister of Health in the rain. Yes, admittedly, he has also contributed his own part to this, but we are all witnesses of helplessness, a planlessness of a federal government in such a difficult time for our country. So you can't deal with a health crisis, no century pandemic, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group and, I am sure, on behalf of many people of our country: Get together and work together to deal with this great crisis for Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To say it with the clear words of a chief editor in our country today: It's really not about you, it's all about us! Ladies and gentlemen, a budget should essentially be used to address the major crises of the present, but also the great challenges of the future, to deal with them, to correct misdevelopments in the social, economic field. Now we all know for many months that Corona has taken a lot of time for people, health, mental, social. In recent years, even before Corona, the social sheath has increased, and also through the pandemic, with unemployment and short-time work, this social sheath has increased further in our country. In addition, for a few months now, there has been a massive price increase, the highest inflation for Austria for ten years. Living, heating, petrol, even daily food shopping – all this is getting more and more expensive. Daily life is becoming more expensive for the people in Austria. It is most expensive to calculate electricity and gas before winter. Up to EUR 500 additional costs for households in Austria are expected for this winter. Also, weekly purchasing is on average 7 per cent more expensive, gasoline by 36 per cent. Increasing prices affect all people in Austria, but some particularly: They are the families and their children, they are the women, they are especially the young people, but also the pensioners and especially those looking for work in Austria. One thing has to be clear to us: There is no need for policy to look away, ladies and gentlemen, to act quickly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] No one should freeze in Austria: That would have to be your guiding principle, too. A tax reform and the budget would be the chance that they would be able to bring in a noticeable price brake for Austria, thereby correcting the growing social gap, just as other European countries do. This is not a unique request that I should like to make for you; other European countries have already gone this way in the light of the sharp rise in energy prices. The European Commission has already proposed this to the Member States, including you, and has asked you to link up with the people's pressure and support packages, but, unlike many European countries, there has been virtually nothing in this country against inflation, not a single measure. Even in your budget, ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing to do with it. This also suggests who will at the end pay the costs of these crises, Mr. Federal Minister. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] In the last few weeks, I have been working with representatives of the Chamber of Labour, trade unions, pensioners and pensioners, students, as well as aid organizations. I can only comment: In fact, it is your job to put together with these representatives, because one thing is clear: [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] It is not just a press conference speech, but it must not simply be a PR-gag, to conjure up one another and the common one, as the President has already done today. We have developed common solutions at this summit, which should help immediately, because people now need the money. [[Call to the ÖVP: That was the summit...!]] This can be achieved, for example, by halving VAT on electricity and gas – this is a proposal from the European Commission, we have picked it up – in time for one year, or with a one-time 300 euro winter subsidy for low-earners. But this can also be achieved with a real, tangible and retroactive tax reform for working people from July this year on, and not, as you have planned, for a small part and that only next year. These measures would help immediately, and they would also be fair, because the higher the price, the higher taxes and the higher your revenue, Mr Finanzminister. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] While the lives of the working people in Austria are getting more expensive from day to day, Mr. Finanzminister, you are taking more and more taxes. Instead of solving this problem of millions, supporting them in this difficult time, you do something quite different: They reduce income taxes by more than EUR 1 billion in favour of some large companies. Are you aware that taxes on work with your turquoise-green tax reform rise nine times as much as the profits taxes of large companies? Nine times so strong! This also suggests who will pay the costs for this crisis, Minister of Finance. – This is unfair, and that does not correspond to what you declared 20 months ago in this country. Together we should make this better in the sense of working people. This budget would also be the great opportunity for the expansion of day-to-day childcare in Austria, the opportunity to return to the children, to the families what Sebastian Kurz has taken them out of greed and unscrupulousness in 2016. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] This budget would be the opportunity for the urgently necessary and overdue care reform in Austria. Nothing, nothing is in your budget. What do you say to the nurses who are at the latest, since this pandemic, going to their borders daily, with their forces at the end, when they now hear that nothing is planned by you at all to improve their difficult working conditions, to relax the scarce staff position if nothing is planned to meet the additional needs of 100,000 nurses in the next few years? What do you say to the 400,000 people in need of care in Austria and their families if you have not planned anything to ensure care in Austria? Tell them you're putting 1.5 billion euros in the economy with your budget and only 25 million euros in the care! Tell them that's honest! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is the policy's task to solve problems. If one accepts this responsibility, then it succeeds. If you don't notice them, you'll take trouble away, and that has devastating consequences, as we see just now in the Corona crisis. But it is also a question of justice to return to people what they have paid too much of taxes in recent years, and to enable them to live their lives as a leader. It is a question of the propensity to return to the children in Austria the 1.2 billion euros stolen from them in 2016. [[Abg. Wöger: That's not true!]] It is a question of respect, Mr Wöginger, to finally improve the working conditions of the nursing workers, all of whom have been bringing us through this crisis day and night for 20 months. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Krisper.]] It is also a question of reason that, with this budget, it is finally a real, sustainable and socially just climate action. All this is a matter of political will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e11356	Member of the Upper Nosterer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e11377	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV screens! We have now heard the speech of the SPÖ Clubwoman: It's amazing how to really twist numbers in the rhetoric. Everyone who has dealt with this budget also knows the content, and as an economic operator I know what numbers you really have to focus on. First of all, with the working people: whether more money remains in the stock at the end of the month or year, or less money remains in Börsl; also with the pensioners or with the companies. The fact is that the budget presented to us by the Minister of Finance, during this difficult period of the pandemic, really stabilized the state of Austria that people were relieved, namely the lower incomes and not, as Mrs Colleague of the SPÖ says, the upper incomes. When you look in, you see that the tax rates have been lowered at the lower incomes and even by 2025 the top tax rates have not been reduced at all. Mrs Colleague, these are facts. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Secondly, this budget shows the future with this eco-social tax reform. If anyone in this house had said a year ago, we'll get a 2022 discharge package, he'd have been laughed. Our Finance Minister and this government – then under our Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz and Vice Chancellor Kogler, now under Schallenberg – have led Austria through the crisis; other states would be happy if they had succeeded. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The German Minister of Finance, when it came to economic aid, short-time work and aid for workers, said: [[call to the FPÖ]] The Austrians have made this smarter! The Germans had not even submitted the applications, we have already paid: 40 billion euros, a lot of money. One year ago it was believed that the debt of the Austrian state went up to 89 percent. Mr Finanzminister, you have presented us with a budget, as any skilled entrepreneur would do. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] In the crisis period you just invested, you have invested in the labour market, you have relieved the people. Do you know where our debt lies today? – Not 89 percent, as the experts said a year ago, but we are now 79 percent for the year 2022. These are facts. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Do you know what other facts are? Whether you are a worker or an entrepreneur: At the end of the year, the employee will see how much is left on his bank account: Is there anything else on it or is there nothing more on it? [[Call the FPÖ:Nix!]] The entrepreneur looks at his current account, where everything is booked: If I have been successful at the end of the year, have I not been successful? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] The state looks at the debt. Is it at least socially balanced? Is the location Austria safe? Is the entrepreneur okay? Is the employer okay? And the debt level goes down by the way from the forecast 89 percent to 79 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoke]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are the facts we can focus on. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I know very well the discussion that will take place in the next three days. Now we have the crisis in front of the door. We will talk about the responsibilitylessness of the liberals in this crisis in the afternoon with the urgent – thank you for bringing them in – and I do not want to say anything about that now. [[Abg. Kassinger: Very much!]] The fact that this state has caused such a thing under this government during this difficult time, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, takes note of this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] You, Mrs. von der SPÖ, say here today in your speech that people have to be relieved. – This budget does not include an increase in the fee. In Vienna, where you have the say with NEOS, the fees go up. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] This state under our Finance Minister and this government have relieved the working people, relieved the pensioners and secured the economic location of Austria. Although Austria is a major tourist country, we have predicted a better growth for 2022 than Germany, France or Italy, for example. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kassinger.]] If that's not a concept of success, tell me the opposite! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e11500	Member of the Fuchs has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e11522	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! The figures and facts show: Austria has not been well hit by the crisis, nor has Austria been better hit by the crisis than other EU Member States. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] The Federal Government's chaos management in the fight against the corona crisis continues seamlessly in budget creation. We are in the middle of the fourth corona wave, Germany has declared Austria a high risk area, the current unconstitutional lockdown for non-vaccinateds causes daily costs of at least 41 million euros, there are supply and production bottlenecks, price increases for many raw materials and intermediate products, record inflation and a threatening pleite wave. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] All of this may be a global problem, but not for the budget of the Austrian Minister of Finance, who is a reality in the process of budgeting. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This budget is based on questionable estimates and is characterised by unfulfilled promises. It is a budget where there is a cloudless economic sky – budgetary risks are simply hidden by the Minister of Finance. The economic forecast based on the 2022 budget and the tax estimate is going to be taken care of! – this pandemic does not cause any significant disturbances to the favourable economic development. You have to let that break on your tongue! We have the fourth wave and the Minister of Finance pretends that there is no Corona. Isn't that inconceivable? This budget is already before the date of entry into force. This budget has nothing to do with reality at all. But that is nothing new under this federal government. I recall the 2020 budget, which was created without regard to the Corona crisis, although we were already in the middle of the Corona crisis; or the 2021 budget, in which only one lockdown light was taken into account, but not the second hard lockdown. I do not want to go into any of the formal errors in the creation of the budget – from the six forgotten zeros to the forgotten signatures of the ÖVP – at all. This Federal Government is simply not able to present a proper and correct budget. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us at the heart of this budget, the eco-social tax reform, the largest mogel pack in the Second Republic, in which taxpayers finance the discharge by the cold progression itself! The CO2 tax newly invented for marketing reasons is nothing but a mineral oil tax increase under the cover of climate protection. At least until 2025, this turquoise-green CO2 power tax has no steering effect, which has also been confirmed by the experts and also by the experts of the Greens in the Budget Committee. That's what I'm asking myself: Then why do we need this new tax? In Austria, energy prices are currently increasing dramatically, and the planned CO2 tax will increase from 1. July 2022 again expensive. The newly introduced price stability mechanism with CO2 power taxes is also a pure false maneuver, and the energy will not be cheaper by a cent. The CO2 tax and the regional climate bonus are also new bureaucracy samples in the administrative process. Is it really useful in times like this to create a new tax – a CO2 tax – for marketing reasons, a tax that the Minister of Finance has complicatedly lifted and then, in the form of the regional climate bonus, is even more complicated and unfairly distributed by the Minister for the Environment? Why do you have to deal with two ministries? The Minister for the Environment has no data for the management of the climate bonus at all. Why can't this make the Ministry of Finance alone where all the necessary data is available? A regulation empowerment in § 3 para. is particularly worrying. 7 Climate bonus law, which I would like to quote separately: ‘The Federal Minister for Climate Change [...] has [...] to establish the resolution of the regional climate bonus, in particular concerning applications, procedures and disbursements, by means of a regulation.’ – ‘Request’: Isn't that crazy? The Minister for the Environment obviously plans to make every Austrian apply for the disbursement of the climate bonus. Why does this not happen inapplicably as in the case of family aid? Anything other than an unsolicited disbursement of the climate bonus, by the Ministry of Finance, not by the Ministry of the Environment, would be bureaucratic nonsense. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition to the administrative aspect, I would like to focus briefly on the substance of the climate bonus, in which heating costs are completely disregarded, although the CO2 tax relates not only to mobility but also to heating. An example from the practice that I have put in plenary last time: If you live in Ketzergasse on the Vienna city border to Perchtoldsdorf and have a straight house number, you will get 100 Euro Klimabonus – because of the supposedly good public connection. But if you live on the other side of the street, in Lower Austria, and have an odd house number, you get 133 euros of climate bonus. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] So in the Ketzergasse the house number decides on the height of the climate bonus. Such successful laws are brought in by this federal government. There are many other curiousities to which I do not even want to go further. The first part of the eco-social tax reform with a massive increase in NOVA by EUR 510 million by 2025 was already the first taste of future eco-punity taxes. Those who have read the government programme and who have also listened to the Minister for the Environment in the presentation of the tax reform know exactly what the burden will still be on us. The first clubman's representative will now say that everything won't come – but you'll see, you also have a coalition partner with which you still have to arrange! [[towards Abg. Woeinger]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Is it in there or not?]] In addition to the CO2 tax – i.e. the hidden increase in mineral oil tax – the ecologicalisation – that is to say the abolition – of the shuttle fee, the ecologicalisation – that is, the abolition – of the service car privilege, the abolition of diesel privilege and other measures against tank tourism: All of these are, from the point of view of the turquoise-green Federal Government, climate-damaging subsidies that need to be abolished. Whenever the turquoise-green federal government ecologizes something, it becomes expensive for the Austrians. This tax reform is neither eco-social nor social, it is an eco-social tax reform financed by the Austrians through the cold progression itself. This eco-social tax reform will cost the Austrians a lot more money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e11600	Mrs Maurer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please, the word stands with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e11622	Mr President. [[Abg. Hafenecker: What do you say to the Lord Choir?- Oh, my God!]] Mr. Minister of Finance! Dear colleagues! Dear spectators in front of the screens! [[Abg. Smoking: Is Mr. Chorherr still known to you?]] The promise to write a billion climate in the budget a year was fulfilled again – it was even overcrowded: 700 million euros more than 1 billion. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] Why do I put this at the beginning of my speech? – Because we Greens have taken action to put climate protection at the centre of political discussion, and because last year we saw it with our own eyes: Weather extremes that destroy the harvest of our farmers, floods, moorings, floods that endanger the villages, the heat in the city that causes old people to hardly leave their homes anymore. [[Abg. Deimek: We'll all die!]] We act to counter this, in concrete terms and not only on paper – and after that, the budget is also focused. We do this out of responsibility for the climate and our nature, but we also do many other things, namely because of responsibility for democracy and the rule of law and because of responsibility for a good relationship. We are dealing with this budget for people in this country. The money we invest concerns her directly, regardless of whether it is the kindergarten child, the student, the entrepreneur, the entrepreneur, whether it be artists, nurses, pensioners, single parents or large families. For them we make up these figures, which we debate for the next three days and then we will decide on the future. We invest, modernise and reform with ecological, social and economic responsibility. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The present budget estimate also reflects the orientation of the eco-social tax reform. Climate-harmful behaviour gets a price; those who act climate-friendlyly will be rewarded. At this point I must say that the science hostility of the Freedom Party is evident in all existing crises. So this concerns the climate crisis as well as the pandemic. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] It is certainly also the absolute opposite of an a social tax reform, which has just been claimed here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] If you look at the calculations of the Fiscal Council, who benefits from this tax reform as strongly as possible, who sees the strongest of measures such as climate bonus, the reduction of CV contributions, the increase in the amount of the child added, then you realize that it is the lowest Quintile, that is, the people with the lowest income. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We know where the large construction sites are on climate protection, and we are going to take them. With regard to mobility, for example, this is the climate ticket, for which we make 252 million euros available in this budget. [[Abg. Deimek:... Pendlerpauschale!]] You know the principle: a ticket for all public transport throughout the country. This has been said in many government programmes, Leonore Wiessler has brought it to the ground. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Deimek:... and for families it becomes more expensive...!]] It is about ensuring an attractive offer for public transport, for people in this country, for mobility. [[Abg. Deimek: Because you don't have a family... that's exciting!]] This is certainly a project for which it is worth spending money. Over a hundred thousand people have already bought it; it is an absolute success project. [[Abg. Deimek:... she insists that it will be more expensive for the families?- Oh, my God!]] There's going to be more every day. We are not only making public transport more attractive, but we are also expanding it. Over the next six years, 18.2 billion euros will be invested in a modern rail network. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Many people should come from A to B in as many places as possible in Austria as possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] With the ticket you do yourself something good, but above all also the environment. Another important building block is housing and heating, because we need to get rid of the harmful oil heating. We need to see that the bodies come out of the basement, as it is called in the campaign, so that we bring down the CO2 load, the CO2 emissions. [[Abg. Deimek: Do you mean the Lord Choir or what do you mean by that?]] There is a large support package for this, which is also contained in this budget. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I also said at the outset that we are responsible for climate, environment and nature, but we are also responsible for democracy and the rule of law. We have already resisted the silent death of the judicial system on entry into this Federal Government – and this too will continue. This budget will further expand the judicial budget, provide funds for the development of judicial institutions and also for the high personnel costs we have – and we urgently need staff because we need to support independent justice in this country. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Obernosterer.]] Another area that is especially dear to my heart is the protection of violence. We still have the situation that in Austria women are murdered by their husbands, by their ex-men, by their friends, by their ex-friends – again and again! We have to do something about it very urgently. That is why this Federal Government has bound up the largest package of anti-violence measures that has ever existed: EUR 24.6 million for the protection of violence in order to put more staff in the key areas in order to finance the work of perpetrators in order to be able to expand the projects in order to create contact points. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] This problem concerns all of us – and this government also places a very strong emphasis on this area. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Another topic has already been discussed: care. It is the caregivers who have been doing incredible in this country for a year and a half – at this point again a warm thanks for the use on the front of the pandemic under incredible strains. We all here can hardly imagine – we read it in the newspapers, we hear it in the interviews – what incredible performance these people provide for us every day. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There is no doubt that we have a great job to do in this area. Some of them, of course, concern training. We need to get more people to get into the care, work in the care. This budget therefore includes a training fund for care training. It is EUR 50 million to help trainees in the field of care and social care professions in training costs or in vocational training. There are other topics that are very important: For example, there is also a record budget for art and culture. There's never been that much money: 557 million euros. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you see, we take our mission very seriously: We invest, modernise and reform for the climate, our nature, democracy, the rule of law and a good relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e11850	Klubobwife's representative, Scherak, is reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e11877	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Values Members of the Federal Government! Estimated spectators, and above all: Dear taxpayers! Thank you, first of all, because it's you that make this budget possible with your hard work at all. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Front missing: Before I come to the budget, like Mrs Rendi-Wagner, I would like to lose a few words on the last few days. You have promised us that you will bring “the best of both worlds” into this government, but I can tell you that what we have experienced in the last few days is the worst possible from both worlds. They have so often contradicted each other in the last few days that the citizens in Austria do not at all know what is going on at all. What you're doing here is that you're going to completely explore the situation – and that's so bizarre, because we all knew that we're going to get into this situation. Anyone who's been a bit concerned with the pandemic knows we're going to another wave if we don't reach the vaccination rate that's necessary. Instead of making low-end offers, making simple measures, such as a vaccination, finally making the tests cost-payable, so that people can be vaccinated to send a fixed vaccination date to all people by letter or text, instead of doing all that, Sebastian has just a few months ago declared the pandemic to be over. During the Landtagswahl in Upper Austria, the head of state Stelzer did not know at all that it was a pandemic – at least my impression – and Health Minister Mückstein did not answer several questions both from our group and from the SPÖ on Sunday, which are and will be the next measures. Two hours later, however, he goes to the “ZIB 2” and explains that he is for starting blocks for vaccines. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you: Obviously you can't! – This is the only conclusion that is possible at the end. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Whatever you can't do – and I come to the real issue – is to present a budget on the major issues of the future. They announce to us once again the biggest tax reform of all time and surpass in superlatives. We know that. Sebastian Kurz, when he was still Federal Chancellor, said: We in Austria have mastered the pandemic most successfully. What you're doing is pure marketing policy without going to the bottom of real problems. This is headline policy without real desire for reform. This is not the best of both worlds, it is pure forget of the future. You lack the courage to go seriously into the future and make innovative reforms. I always wonder – and that's what I wonder when I look at the budget: Consider What You're thinking about how Austria can still be competitive in ten years' time, how we can keep the location attractive, how we can make it happen that at the end of the day, employees finally have more money at their disposal and less costs, how we can make our children get the best education, how we can make sure that we are a real model in terms of climate policy? The budget presented by you simply does not give any answers to these pressing questions for the future. They manage the status quo, and we are actually discussing a budget – and I found that very exciting, because Mr Obernosterer has now said several times how great this federal government is – which is based solely on the fact that the entrepreneurs in this country are financing the people who are working with their tax revenue of this country without They make them a single real, sustainable reform. – With these people you can thank yourself, but not with this federal government. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] If we then discuss the tax reform, which is shown here in the budget and which has already been discussed, then I tell you that this is again just marketing and not a real tax reform, and, above all, taxpayers are not put at the heart of it. Mr Finanzminister, on these collective reforms, which you make every time, I tell you quite honestly: You can give them to yourself. If we do not finally succeed in abolishing the cold progression – and all the parties here in this House have promised to do so in several election campaigns – then with your collective reform, you will only give back to the people in good-doersmanier what you have actually put out of their hands in Raubrittermanier years earlier. These people are entitled to the money, and it is actually a prelude that we still have to wait for the abolition of the cold progression. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Then, in turn, label this as the biggest tax reform of all time. By the way: Each tax reform is the biggest tax reform ever. If you are ever more relieved of a euro, it is again the biggest tax reform. But if you don't manage to eliminate the cold progression, then it's nothing but a joke for all the people who get up in the early morning, go to work and pay more taxes year after year due to the cold progression than they would have to pay. Let us continue to look at the entrepreneurs; Mr Obernosterer has already mentioned it. Yes, the Köst reduction is something we welcome – of course! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] If you ask, Mr Wöginger: Yes, of course, as a party that is important to entrepreneurs, we will welcome a reduction in the cost. [[Abg. Wöginger: Yes, the hazelsteiner has bought you this!]] Mr Wöginger! If you call in that Hans Peter Haselsteiner bought us something, then the expression of your thinking is. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] Maybe it's with you that the donors can buy you something. We are convinced of the policy we are making! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The fact is, the Köst reduction is something positive, not a question at all. But when it comes to the real question of how we manage to keep companies competitive, how we manage to bring down labour costs, it happens far too little. These failures, these high additional wage costs, are what causes entrepreneurs to gradually move abroad because they have an absurd competitive disadvantage. Do you know what entrepreneurs are currently preparing sleepless nights? – This is the question of how they find labour. They are looking for workers for their companies in Austria. And the only thing that comes to your mind as a federal government is to talk first of all about an increased unemployment benefit, without even least thinking about how to create an incentive for people to go back to work. This simply does nothing to the entrepreneurs in Austria. On the ecologisation addressed by Mrs Maurer: If you continue to maintain all environmental promotions if you make the climate bonus the way you plan it if you have a CO2 price of 30 euros, you know as greens that any steering effect that would be necessary will be re-buffed in the second and that this has absolutely nothing to do with a truly sustainable climate policy. You would have to know that for decades you have been fighting for climate policy, but actually you would have to know it best. When you look at whether there is any response in the budget to the increasing cost of pension, you are looking in vain. We don't find anything. Instead of once thinking about how you can pay people more sustainablely – and not always just with these one-off effects, as you do – while at the same time ending the absurd debt at the expense of the next generation, you simply don't do anything. Mr Finanzminister, one more comment to the conclusion: If the alleged economic party ÖVP is the only idea in connection with the capital market now trying to tax profits on cryptocurrencies, instead of finally thinking about how you can implement a retention period for shares, then this leaves you somewhat irritated. I know you wanted this, but you obviously couldn't stand up in your party and you couldn't stand up to the coalition partner. Perhaps we can make it possible for us to attract the capital market in Austria and that the people who invest in the long term for the future and for their pension also have something of it. That's where you have to get through. I wish you luck, but obviously it doesn't work with your party and coalition partner. In the result: This is a disappointing extension of the status quo. This is not a real, sustainable relief for people in this country. These are not future reforms within the meaning of the next generation, and this is not a real ecologicalisation of the tax system. Finally, a sentence on the pandemic: Ladies and gentlemen! If you haven't been immunized yet, do it! Get the fuck out of here! Protect yourself and protect the other people in this country!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e11973	Mr Klubobmann Wöginger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. – Please take the floor, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e11994	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is already interesting to listen here to how each party evaluates the budget. After an almost 19-year experience, I can say it's always like this: The government decides the budget, the opposition is against it – no matter in which government constellations, it is simply so. It is also their right and legitimate that the opposition is against the budget. Mrs Rendi-Wagner, you are getting out of here and you are acting against the priceyness that is undoubtedly there. I would, however, advise you to keep the speech you gave here elsewhere. Please speak with Mayor Ludwig in Vienna and try to take the floor at the Vienna Town Hall! [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] It is precisely there that the fees for water, waste and canal are raised by more than 5 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] This is the Vienna city government under SPÖ-Bürgermeister Ludwig, who is drawing the money for an increase in the fees from Vienna and Vienna. That's what you're doing, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And the pink attachment covers it in silence. It's clear, too, because that can't be the NEOS' approach to increasing fees. [[Abg. Höfinger: After incredible...!]] 1 billion euros will be taken in Vienna via fees for water, canal and waste – 1 billion! And now you put 50 million euros on it. The Viennans will be grateful for this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] – Yes, Matznetter, we know you’re always screaming when it hurts you, and that hurts! [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] Unfortunately, however, the population is hurting, namely the Viennans, who are getting the money out of their pocket, where there is already a price. You should write that in the main book, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To the FPÖ: Mr Fuchs, you are really an objective and serious politician. Since Kickl is at home because he is ill with Corona – we wish him all the best – you do not have to give such a talk and mention things that are not in this budget. You're always talking to the pendler's payroll, you're always talking about the service weights. This is not the case in this budget, even in the eco-social tax reform. It remains the same for the commuters. [[Abg. Fuchs:... is in the government programme!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Yes, we are committed to a CO2 prize because we must not close our eyes to climate change. We can't. It is necessary that we already recognize the reality here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] And this budget, together with the eco-social tax reform, is the best of these two worlds. Yes to climate protection with home mind, yes to a regional climate bonus and indeed to a great relief for citizens at all levels with a volume of 18 billion euros! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] 18 billion euros we give back to people, and that is good, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] This budget is characterised by upswing, stability and sustainability. [[Abg. Loacker: Take 30 and return 18!]] – Yes, it is always true that tax reform can only pay taxpayers, and we thank them too. We thank the service providers of this company, for all those who pay taxes here, because it is only possible for us to carry out tax reliefs. The State only collects taxes, so we can only distribute them. That is why a great deal of thanks also to the taxpayers, who can do so at all! [[I should like to congratulate Mr Disoski and Mr Maurer on his work.]] We relieve people, and I am excited to see if the FPÖ will agree with those things that we both actually had in the government programme. It is the second and third tax rate included, we reduce to 30 and 40 percent, which in total constitutes a discharge of up to EUR 1 230 per person per year. With the family bonus – from me also Plus; now there is a plus, plus 500 euros – there are 2 000 euros per child per year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] The additional amount of children is also increased to 450 euros. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Kassinger.]] That is what we have made up of together, so I am excited whether the FPÖ will agree to these things that we had to share in the last government programme, whether you continue to confess to relieve people of the reduction of tax levels and also with the increase of the family bonus. This is the case with people, ladies and gentlemen, the people will feel this discharge, and it is also necessary, especially in times like this, that we implement this great discharge. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] We relieve the working people, we set incentives for climate-friendly behaviour, and we strengthen the economic location sustainablely. Another word on the economy: Especially in difficult times or when one comes out of an economic crisis, it is necessary to set the appropriate accents. It is a variety of measures in the package: Whether it is a 2 percentage point reduction in Köst, whether it is an increase in the profit-free amount, whether it is the discount rate for low-value economic goods, which is now raised to EUR 1 000 – all these are points that will strengthen the economy in a sustainable way, which is also linked to job security. We strengthen the site as a whole, we strengthen the purchasing power of people, and there is no reason, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not agree to this discharge. It can only be one thing: to act as one always behaves; the government decides a budget that is sustainable, which provides stability that supports the upturn, and the opposition is against it for some reason. It is legitimate if you are against it, but you should think, ladies and gentlemen, why you are not giving your consent to this discharge package. It contains important points for taxpayers, for all people. We also reduce social security contributions in the lower incomes – that is what you always wanted, just from the SPÖ. And now you're saying that's not good. The location decides on the position, so it is now, and the SPÖ here measures by two measures: If it rules, it is a good budget and a good discharge. If she's in opposition, she's against it. – This is not a serious way of politics, and, Mrs. Rendi-Wagner, go to the Town Hall and stop Mayor Ludwig from raising fees!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e12154	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e12175	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in the government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, allow me once again to start my speech with a question, with a question to Mrs Köstinger, Mr Brunner, Mr Blümel and Mr Nehammer: You're still there? You're still here! You promised, if Mr. Kurz goes, go along – remember? [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] The whole country has been happy, and now you have broken your promise, ladies and gentlemen. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] – So much is to be kept by the promises of the EIA in this country not only on this issue, but in general. Let's go to the budget! Mr Wöginger, thank you for saying that if the SPÖ is in the government, there are good budgets. – Yes, that’s right, but now we’re not; that’s why the budget is already being questioned, and you probably allow the opposition to do so. Mr Finanzminister, I have had no high expectations at all, but you have still disappointed me, I must say that quite openly. Did you forget that we've been in the biggest pandemic for 100 years? Did you get rid of that? The health systems are overburdened, the people who work in the health field are overburdened, and what are you doing? – The hospitals get 130 million euros less! This is not a financial policy in the crisis, Mr Blümel, that is a disaster, I must tell you openly. We see the same thing in the care: The care system is overburdened, everybody knows that. The care system is overburdened, and do you know what you're doing? It takes about 1.5 billion euros, and do you know how much you increase? – 25 million euros! This is a joke for the people who are in need of care, and for the people who are caring for, dear Mr. Blümel! This is certainly not the case at this stage. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They want the communities to repay the billions they need so urgently and cannot repay. You're making politics for the super-rich, Mr. Blümel! [[Abg. Hanger: You didn’t read the budget!]] That's what you're doing with this budget. This is the green-Turkish financial policy, and this is not just to reject it, it is to be changed as soon as possible if you have been selected. That is why it is for the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] On the part of the government, on the part of the ÖVP, the price has already been raised – even you have realized that the inflation has moved into the country. Yeah, you realized, but you don't mind. The cost of weekly purchasing increases by 6.8 percent, for petrol, fuel by 36 percent, for heating and electricity by 16 percent. That can't go on, and what are you doing about it? Tell me what you're doing about it! You're not doing anything about this costing. You leave people alone in this situation, and you note that this inflation is a threat to households! [[Abg. Wöginger: And in Vienna takes...!]] There is no single sentence in the budget on this situation, and I say to you: You are abandoning people, and just as you are doing here, budgetary policy is not going to happen! This is not what people in our country are currently in need of, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, my appeal: Voices She's with you! They do something good for the people in the country! At the end of the day, however, let me come to a point which has already been raised by a number of previous speakers: to combat pandemic, which is now really going down the stream through your activities in this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] How does this government try to fight the pandemic? – In the evening, the Minister of Health makes a proposal. In the early morning, the counterproposal of the chancellor comes. At noon, Mrs. Köstinger makes himself important. In the evening or late afternoon there is the order notification of the Minister of Economic Affairs, and at the end of the day, Mr Vice-Chancellor says the opposite again. – Estimated Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against pandemic is not going on! That confuses people, it will not be appropriate to fight the pandemic, and that is something that really hurts our country. Finally, Mr. Kurz: Mr. Kurz, this is your legacy. This pandemic policy is your legacy. You declared the pandemic to be over in the summer. They have made sure that people have become careless. They have made sure that pandemic control has not been taken seriously. Now we are facing the ruins of this policy, and I would be glad if something had finally changed in this country and people would finally be helped again. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bösch.]] [[10:09]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e12369	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Fuchs is speaking on an actual correction. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e12396	Mr President. Mr Wöginger said that the greening of the shuttle fee was not part of the eco-social tax reform, and he also claimed that it was not part of this budget. I'm actually correcting: Today, we are discussing the Federal Finance Act 2022 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2022 to 2025, and in these laws the eco-social tax reform is very likely. The Government Programme, the Council of Ministers Lecture 5/16 of 30.1.2020 – Title: The Austrian development and resilience plan, 2020–2026 of 30.4.2021, and the comments of the Federal Minister of State, Geessler, in the presentation of the tax reform on 3.10.2021, include the “ecologisation and increase in the effectiveness of the Pendler Pauschale”, which is also part of this government programme and, of course, this eco-social tax reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e12429	That was a political note, I can hold on. Before I give the floor to honourable Members, I can warmly welcome the President of the Swiss National Council, Andreas Aebi, with his wife. [[General condolences.]] Switzerland and Austria connect close friends but also economic contacts, and he made a three-day trip to Austria. Welcome, and I wish you a good stay! [[General condolences.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: Musty, at our incidences!]] Member of the European Parliament is entitled to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e12475	Mr President. A welcome from me too! I start with a hello to the members of the Federal Government, to the High House, to the spectators and also to the President – and to the fact that everything that somehow has ecologisation in its name is triggered by the FPÖ Schauer by Members of the Fox. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Wöger.]] That is, we are probably going in the right direction. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What also surprises me a little bit is that the SPÖ is making a request to expand climate-damaging subsidies. I have always believed that you too want to abolish them, but obviously you are going in a completely different direction. Unfortunately, that's not the way we did in the 21st century. ==References== [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I do not want to deny that the current situation is challenging; I think that can be seen every day. What I do not share is the assessment that the budget is, in principle and generally, too optimistic. We have found that Corona has a high seasonality, partly a surprisingly high seasonality. This has led many of my previous speakers to ask them to correct the budget down last year, because they believed it was too optimistic. Now, at the end of 2021, it turns out: The budget probably did fit quite well, it might even have been a touch too pessimistic. That is why I also believe that this budget, as it is now set up, will last. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] To calm down all the spectators: This budget also includes funds for direct covid crisis management: EUR 3.8 billion for short-term work, for educational protection, for health measures and so on, and additional EUR 5 billion in empowerment for the Minister of Finance to respond flexibly to challenges related to this crisis. That is to say, this budget provides for the means to penetrate through this hopefully last wave, the last booming of this crisis, but also shows the way out of the crisis into the future – and there lies the focus of this budget, namely in the future. For the first time, climate-damaging greenhouse gases will receive a price and will lead the entire economy into a positive, climate-friendly future. This would not have been achieved without this green government participation, and that, I believe, is a great success. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the same time, it must be ensured that people can be taken along in this way, and that is why this budget and this tax reform provide for massive support in the exchange of boilers and also for thermal rehabilitation, especially for people with low incomes – which means that everyone and everyone can really participate and can, in fact, free themselves from this dependence on coal, oil and gas, which is not combated by an extension of climate-damaging subsidies, but precisely by investing in them all, by trying to get away from our old heating systems and to replace them with renewables. This is the way out of Putin's price trap. It is precisely these things that are now being decided in the budget accompanying law – thank you for submitting this law accordingly! It was important for us that despite CO2 prices, it is ensured that more money remains in the stock exchange. We do this by introducing this climate bonus, which ensures, and it is often misrepresented that the basic supply – that is to say, for heating as well as for the main supply routes – is guaranteed. So everything that comes to people in terms of the price of CO2 is surely compensated for by the climate bonus, no matter where you live, and so everyone remains more money in the stock exchange. One can participate in this, so to speak, movement towards more climate protection and benefit from it, at the same time one does not need to be afraid if one does not succeed. At the same time, the steering effect remains – even this has been disputed by one of my previous speakers. The UBA has calculated that this measure alone can reduce 4 percent of greenhouse gases in Austria. This is a relatively large share for a single measure, which this measure has in reducing greenhouse gases. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Most economic experts agree that in Austria we are too low on environmentally harmful behaviour and technologies and too low labour incomes, so there are several measures, in particular this reduction in tariffs, which also provide a large volume of relief for labour income – and I am surprised that NEOS are suddenly opposed to the tax reform, although I have assumed that you are basically in favour of reducing taxes. It is also true that I have the impression somewhere, you're surprised that the state is financing itself through taxes, because if you take taxes – and take more taxes – then you say that's a predator's manner, and the like. [[Abg. Loacker: Is it too!]] This is due to the way: Of course, one must try to use the taxes in the budget to make sense, but that the state is in principle financed by taxes, which should not surprise anyone now. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There is also the view – that is more often from the SPÖ – that the tax reform would, above all, relieve the rich and the poor would not benefit from it. – The Fiscal Council has clearly shown that the relative relief for small incomes, the lower 20 percent, is much higher than for the top 20 percent. I think that the numbers should be spoken; people can make a picture of them themselves. I would also like to say that I hope that you will all help to ensure that this positive view of the future that this budget gives can, as it were, also be implemented and made for our society. You can help everyone, namely: If you have not been vaccinated yet, please let yourself be vaccinated, and if you are vaccinated, then see that in the next few weeks you will try to reduce your contacts and be a little more cautious! Then I am confident that we will do this, and then this budget will be a good way to the future. I thank you for the cooperation and wish you all the best. Stay healthy! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e12555	Mr President, I should like to make a point of order. The word stands with her. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e12584	Mr President. Mr Schwarz has just claimed that in a climate-friendly budget, which was also available, the increase in climate-friendly subsidies was not envisaged. Dear ÖVP, dear Greens, you are doing just that in the field of agriculture – agricultural diesel keyword – where you introduce new climate-damaging subsidies.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e12619	That too was not an actual correction. I'd ask you: In view of the many contributions, can we perhaps put this into the debate? Mr Brügl is the next one to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e12643	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scherak said in his speech: No one knows what's going on, and he's right with that. The Federal Government has completely failed in the last few days regarding its communicative behaviour. This is dilettantism in pure culture, and this diletation continues, High House, also in our schools. We spend over 10 billion euros a year on education, but we are always in the back of the international comparison when, for example, I make Finland, on all surveys, on the tests, on the Pisa studies and so on, although these countries spend less on education than Austria does. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Taschner]] [[Abg. Tashner:... youth unemployment!]] This is certainly also because, Professor, we are wrong in setting the priorities in this country. When I look at the budget, I see that we are spending EUR 240 million on school tests next year, for tests – PCR tests – in schools. This is just as much money as we spend for funding hours, and this, although we have seen a massive loss of education among our children over the last one and a half years. This is far too little money being spent on it. This EUR 240 million budget for tests proves only one: The insanity in our schools continues, and not only the insanity of the test, but also the pressure of mask continues. Whether someone has been tested – negatively tested – whether or not he has been vaccinated: Even if young people or children are vaccinated, they will have to wear FFP2 mask in the future. By the way, this is also true in the public schools. We must put an end to this madness. That urge of our children must not continue. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With regard to communication, the Ministry of Education has, by the way, borne the concept of school chaos in entirely new dimensions. The communication team at the Ministry of Education writes to the schools, sends letters with instructions to the schools in which the children in the schools now have to wear FFP2 masks – and this, although the regulations never mention an FFP2 mask, is always only about NMS, about mouth-nose protection, the talk. Although risk level 2 would in principle apply in six of the nine federal states, the Federal Minister said: We are now doing what is foreseen at risk level 3 in all the federal states. – What this means in turn – there is a letter from the Upper Austrian Education Directorate, in which it reads –: Those who are neither healed nor vaccinated go to Distancelearning, although only a single student in class is positive. – This is crazy, because that really means that at the upper levels we only have a 2G rule – you have to be healed or vaccinated – and that in reality the schools and the lower levels are in the future again in distance learning. That can't be it, so it can't go on. This government diletates on the back of our students. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Obernosterer – I don't know if he's still here – has meant that this federal government has led our country through the crisis excellently and that abroad envys us. Mr Obernosterer, I do not know if you have read foreign media sometime in the last few days, but I can only briefly quote one, namely the largest German daily, which has written: “With the lockdown against unvaccinated, Austria has become a deterrent example. In addition to the brutal restriction of freedom: No one knows if there are fewer infections when people are locked in at home.” And then we're going to go on: “But the worst thing is that the lockdown also meets children and young people. Minors are put under massive pressure to be vaccinated against a virus that is hardly dangerous to themselves. Instead, politics threatens its physical and mental health". “The virus is known to have no limits. But this policy against children and young people must not be a school in Germany!” – These are the foreign media, so is reported about our country. Or: The Croatian President – I can also quote it – says: “In Austria today, people who are not vaccinated are forbidden to leave the house. What is that, science or methods that remind of the 30s?’ [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] This division of our society, ladies and gentlemen, must be ended! This division, which is operated by the government, is now going through the families: She separates parents from her children, she separates sister and brother. It must also end with this government speech. When I think about it, The former Minister Bogner-Strauß speaks of angels of death when she speaks of nurses and nurses. Mrs Köstinger said that the time had expired for the unvaccinated. [[Federal Minister Köstinger: What?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] In fact, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany shot down the bird, because Chancellor Schallenberg – he was talking about people like animals – said, and that is the fearsome – we would have to tighten the reins for the unvaccinated. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] High house! That's crazy! Such a Federal Chancellor has lost nothing in his office! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Quit this unique insanity worldwide! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] He is unique worldwide, and this was written yesterday by the “Press”: There are no comparable measures in nearly 200 countries worldwide. – Not even in North Korea, not even in China – these are the countries that even stand above us. [[Abg. Deimek: Not even in Liechtenstein!]] Give back to people their dignity, dear Federal Government, spread hope instead of hysteria and panic! It's about the future of our home country, it's about the future of our children, it's about the future of people. By the way – ceterum censeo – I believe that this budget is not suitable for bringing Austria out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e12784	Mr Haubner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e12810	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Also from this point of view a grüezi to the Swiss delegation – we have some connections: We are small countries, we have great companies, we have diligent people, and we have strong economies. [[Abg. Deimek: In Switzerland, however, it is not locked!]] A warm congratulations to your performance, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say something about strong economies, because that is precisely the objective of this budget: that we are maintaining Austria as a strong economy. We want stability and growth in our country, and it is very important that we have a thriving economy and give budgetary security, ladies and gentlemen, because an economy that has healthy companies creates and secures jobs. If I look at this budget very carefully, I realize that this budget supports the recovery, creates the stability we need and has sustainability on the agenda. The Minister of Finance has built this budget with great care, and it is a clear announcement towards the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and Deputies Lukas Hammer and Jakob Schwarz.]] Especially in these difficult corona times – and as we are now experiencing, these times are not over – the largest support packages in the Second Republic have been launched. Now, on the one hand, it is precisely up to us to continue to support and, on the other hand, to think about the future in order to address the new challenges, such as climate change, the labour market and the location – and that is what we are doing. If we use the upturn now, we will find the usual Austrian strength. There will be no overall lockdown, ladies and gentlemen. It helps us the most – and this is our primary task – that we bring the citizens to vaccination, because with a high vaccination rate we can better march towards the upswing. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] The economic forecasts are on the rise, ladies and gentlemen, and these are good signals. This budget – and I would like to say that again in the direction of SPÖ – sets very clear signals, namely towards the working people: We relieve these, we reduce the tax rate from 35 percent to 30 percent and that from 42 percent to 40 percent. We provide incentives, and we strengthen the economic location through discharges and promotions. The investment premium has shown it in the past: valuable impulses – 7 billion euros trigger investment of 80 billion euros. We want to continue this course and support the economy accordingly. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We make policy for Austrian entrepreneurs so that they can stay here and invest here. That's very important. They need our appreciation and our support. Whether SMEs, EPUs or managing companies – all companies are equally important to us, and that is why there is a mix of measures. Finally, a thank you in the name of my home country Salzburg: In 2021, we were severely affected by storms, and we find it in the budget, in the disaster fund, 4 million euros per year. – Thank you on behalf of the people in the regions, we can urgently need this money. That's why: Working together and not working against each other – this is the commandment of the hour, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e12870	Members of the European Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and The word stands with her. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e12896	Mr President. High house! Values Members of the Federal Government! Yes, Minister of Finance, and this has been mentioned very often in the speeches of my previous speakers today, it always says: This budget is “future”. Don't judge a book by its cover!, it always says, but we've been looking at it, we've been looking at it, we've looked very closely – I've added, referring to the words of Mr. Haubner – and we've only been able to say: It is not a future in this package! It is again a budget at the expense of the next generation, and it is again a budget that simply comes uninspired and unsuspectingly. Why do I say that? – Because there are just three important points that you always hear from us NEOS: The structural reforms – a very, very important first point – are not included. Secondly, The debt backpack just keeps growing, and nothing is done either. And, thirdly, this supposedly biggest tax reform of all time is a shame. It does not relieve people, nor will it bring us closer to the climate goals. – Instead of rebooting, we have a usual uninspired budget. However, I would like to refer to the three points in more detail. I'll start with the reform stand. These are the usual reforms that we all call for and that all experts always call for, and I am always starting with the pension reform: A third of the federal budget is committed to pensions in the form of grants, and finally the head must be removed from the sand. At last something has to be done, and it is about the fact that the actual retirement age is finally raised. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Federalism reform: We spend far too much money on the wrong things because you do not manage to deflate responsibility for tasks, revenue and expenditure at local, country and federal level. This does not only cost a lot of money, it is inefficient and – you have to say it in these days – it threatens life. The perhaps most important future reform concerns education. Because I'm also seeing the visit from Switzerland here: In Switzerland, the education budget is 16.5 percent of the budget – in Austria it is less than 10 percent. It is always a bit increased, but no one seems to look exactly in it, for: What is increased, these are the teachers' salaries – that is, of course, appropriate, but that simply does not change in a school class. That too should finally be changed. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Let's go to my second point, the debt backpack: This stable of reform, which has emerged over the last decades – you have to say almost – simply blocks the budget. There is something going on here that will completely limit freedom of movement in the future. That's really bad, and that's what it's all about. In addition to this strengthening of the budget we already find, we have now spent over 60 billion euros on the crisis. More than 60 billion euros have been spent so far! It was just piled up in debt. And what's going on now – because this summer was not used again, because people haven't been brought to vaccination again –: Now we have the next – fourth – wave. Yes, I would be pleased if we were to end up with these 5 billion euros contained in this budget next year, but – I am with Mr Fuchs – I do not think that will be possible. So who pays for this perfect brilliance of the Federal Government? – The taxpayer, because he's bathing it out, and I really have to tell you I'd like to send you to the private bankruptcy. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Then we have the third point, that is the ecological tax reform. This is – and we have said this several times – not ecologically, Mr Black, nor is it a real tax reform, for such a one should relieve people. What it has become is a bit of a collective reform – by the way, Mr Schwarz, we think the reduction in tariffs is good – but it is a lot of subsidy populism inside. Of these 18 billion euros, 10 billion are spent on climate change bonuses and co, and this has nothing to do with the discharge of people in that country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] So what would you do? – In Austria, working people simply have to keep more money in their pockets. In the EU comparison – ladies and gentlemen, listen to this! – is the country where the people of their hard-earned gross wage then remain net to the third least in the wallet, Austria, our home country. That's what you and we pay every year. Why is that so? – Because a very, very central demand – Mr Finance Minister, I am really looking at you now, I am also looking towards Mr Vice-Chancellor Kogler, who is not here right now – has not been fulfilled. What's this about? – It is about abolishing the cold progression. If we finally got that under control, we'd have a lot of help. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Because it's said we don't like all the reforms made for the economic location: We think the Köst reduction is good, we also find it good that there is a profit-free amount, and the investment-free amount is absolutely fine – we support it. But what it really needs, ladies and gentlemen - and all those of you who talk to entrepreneurs every day - is a reduction in additional wage costs, and they are missing. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] For comparison only: In Germany, you pay 7 percent less additional wage costs than in Austria – this is your competitive economic location. We have already heard that we have to attract the capital market, but I would also like to say a last sentence on the CO2 price – because with what is happening there, people really get their eyes on sand: We will never reach the climate path with this little refrain, with this 30 euros that will be set in motion there. The climate targets will not be achieved and, yes, sometime then, the billions of punishments will threaten – 9 billion euros a year, that's what's on the list – and then we'll probably make big eyes again. And who will pay it? - The taxpayer. We NEOS have presented a concept according to which we would simply abolish the distortion of energy taxes and bring forward a truly transparent price of CO2; the whole process is neutral, I would like to say – calculated – by drastically reducing taxes, taxes and ancillary costs on income. That would be a very, very good step and from my point of view still the best concept that has ever been presented in Austria. Perhaps at the end, Minister of Finance: That's your third budget now. In May 2020, I was allowed to hand over a bulwark to you, because you yourself said the budget is to throw away. In the autumn of 2020 – that was then the 2021 budget – you refused to adapt the paper to the numbers communicated by the Wifo at the time. Now we have a budget again, which will not be quite sure because the government has slept the fight against the pandemic in the summer. So it won't last again. Finally – and I have said this more often –: This federal government is really a world champion in announcing but a perfect poverty dish in implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e13011	The Minister for Finance has been reported to speak. The word stands with him. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e13033	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Values Watchers in front of TV screens! With this budget, we enable recovery, stability and sustainability for Austria. It is clear that the pandemic is still a major challenge, but we know: The vaccination works, and therefore my appeal to all: Please let yourself be vaccinated, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The faster we do this together, the faster we can leave the pandemic behind, both in terms of health policy and in terms of economic and budgetary policy. The Federal Government alone has so far paid more than 41 billion euros in this pandemic or legally committed it. Economic aid such as the Cofag loss rate or the Covid-19 guarantees are still running until the end of the year, as well as short work in phase five to June 2022. But it is also clear that the current situation is likely to require further assistance. We have also made good provision for this in this budget: with a covid authorization for EUR 5 billion in the budget for 2022 and for the means of short-time work that have already been recruited. Of course, there has been a fall in revenue in the Covid crisis. This has been reflected in the deficit and also in the increased debt ratio. That is why it is also important that we reduce the debt ratio step by step in the next few years in order to provide us with the fiscal room for the next crisis. The reduction of the debt ratio is therefore not a self-interest, but it is a matter of providing for the next crisis. Nevertheless, and I say this quite consciously here: The reduction in the debt ratio is not equivalent to a savings package. It means setting specific priorities instead of spending the money of taxpayers according to the principle of foundry. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Kassinger: But that's exactly a casting pot! More casting can't work! It's a casting pot!]] The eco-social tax reform, ladies and gentlemen, is just such a focus. We are thus pursuing four specific objectives: First, we want to relieve the working people in this country, second, we want to provide incentives for environmentally friendly behaviour, third, we want to strengthen Austria's location sustainably, and fourth, we want to cut Austria's debt ratio step by step in order to be well prepared for the next crisis. We achieve all these four objectives with this budget, and that is already set in this budget. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] According to an analysis by Eco Austria, with the tax reform in final expansion, we increase gross domestic product by 1 per cent and by around 4 billion euros per year. To sum up, the number of employees due to this tax reform is increasing by more than 30 000, and despite all these measures, we will cut the debt ratio by 70 percent at the end of the financial framework. We will therefore also be well placed for future challenges. The eco-social tax reform is, of course, the big project that is reflected in this budget. At the same time, we give the resorts sufficient scope to enable them to set their own specific priorities and continue their work. In the area of the Federal Government, internal security and justice, for example, the funds for combating terrorism are increased. There will also be additional funding to improve the protection of women from violence in several sectors. We will make a total of EUR 3.7 billion available for care services next year. The education budget will already exceed the 10 billion euro mark in the coming year. The digitisation of teaching will continue, and in general we will also strengthen and make possible regional developments in the area of economics. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Of course, there is more money for climate protection – more than EUR 5.9 billion by 2025 – and in the area of mobility we support climate-friendly behaviour with sufficient resources for rail or regional climate tickets. This budget, ladies and gentlemen, provides for growth, stability and sustainability for Austria. – Thank you very much for the contributions.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e13093	Mr Hammer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e13115	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, a word on the NEOS: It's true, you have your own model for the introduction of a CO2 price. We've always said we don't think this model makes sense. Of course, you want to introduce a CO2 price, but you want to abolish all other environmental taxes and taxes on the environment. While we have looked forward to the fact that the sprit-eating, big instincts will become more expensive even when you buy a car through a reform of the NOVA compared to low-carbon vehicles, you would completely abolish the NoVA. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Bernhard and Mr Shetty.]] This would result in the first 200 000 to 300 000 kilometres of road with a high-fat SUV for nothing, before this CO2 price you want to introduce takes place at all. From my point of view, your model is completely counterproductive. Look at this again! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr President, since I was with some colleagues at the climate conference in Glasgow, I would like to share with you what your colleague, the President of Parliament of Tuvalu Samuelu Teo, has told us in Glasgow. His home is literally ahead of destruction. Tuvalu is already fighting with devastating storms. Already the sea level is rising, which also causes soil and groundwater to salt. This, in turn, makes it slowly impossible to grow something edible there. If the sea level continues to rise, the country will eventually become completely flooded and uninhabitable – the whole country! For the President of Tuvalu and all the other people who live on Tuvalu, a failure in the fight against the climate crisis means the complete loss of their homeland. If we don't create the climate change now, there will be no hope very soon. Colleagues from Africa, for example from Madagascar, have told us that their countries are already spending up to 9 percent of GDP on adapting to the climate crisis. In Austria it would be 38 billion euros that Austria would have to pay for climate damage. This is almost twice as much as we are spending today on pensions. If you were to ask colleagues about Loacker, he would confirm that this is already a lot. With the record damage in agriculture, we are only experiencing in Austria the comparatively gentle advances of what is already bitter reality in other regions of this earth. We urgently need positive signals of hope – and this has become clear after the climate conference. This climate change budget, which the Federal Government has presented to us and which we will decide this week, is a positive signal of hope. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] Never before, ladies and gentlemen, has there been just about as much money for climate protection, for the socio-ecological turnaround. To give you an idea of what dimensions are here: If you look at the example of thermal renovation and heating exchange, you see, with this 500 million euros available to us next year, we have 11 times more money at our disposal than in 2019 and even twice as much as we have available this year. The budget, together with the eco-social tax reform, has a concrete objective: We want to make climate-friendly behaviour possible for people and companies. Climate protection is to be the simple and better alternative, because it is more convenient and cheaper. That is why we create durable alternatives to the car by massively expanding public transport and making it even cheaper through the climate ticket. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That's why we help people get their fossil bodies out of the basement and switch to climate-friendly heating systems. [[Abg. Kassinger: A ban is not help, but compulsion!]] We have therefore introduced a CO2 price so that investments in CO2-free technologies are expected and therefore environmentally friendly behaviour is rewarded. Because an ecological transformation must always be a social transformation and social justice, all people, really all in Austria, get back the revenue from the CO2 price, of which people – and the Fiscal Council has also noted this – are especially benefiting with low incomes. This climate budget, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen, is a signal of hope, because we still have a chance to fight the climate crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e13196	Point landing. Member of the Muchitsch Chamber has been reported to speak. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e13220	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! I would like to ask the Members of the Government: Please don't put yourself here to the speaker's desk and say: This government has brought Austria through the pandemic well! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Where do you live? - We have a chaos. In the fight against the pandemic in Austria, we find a chaos like never before in the last 20 months. The test offers are not sufficient, the laboratory capacities are at the end, the long queues on the test roads lead to violence. We have too long waiting times for the test results. Because Mr Karlheinz will be standing in front of the speaker's desk afterwards: Companies now send employees home, businesses now remain closed. The employers don't know what to do. You're here and you're saying, The pandemic has been fought! [[Abg. Cashier: Vaccination works, the vaccination works!]] Or: We have brought Austria through the crisis well! - That's a nonsense. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Where do you live? Open your eyes, please! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Shetty.]] When you look at how society in our country is constantly dispersing on a daily basis – at work, in the family, in the circle of friends – you can see: It is the pure chaos that caused this federal government – and nobody else, just this federal government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] If we look at the budget, Mr Finanzminister, I say to you as social spokesperson in all these social areas: There is nothing to be found there to combat abuses, defaults and emergencies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Three examples in the 2022 budget; first example: This 2022 budget does not combat poverty in Austria. The weakest in this country do not know how to pay food for heating that is to pay for housing. This is no longer eligible for funding. What did you, Mr Finanzminister, picture in your budget on this issue of combating poverty in Austria? - Nothing. Second example: the care emergency. In the 2022 budget, you will not solve the care emergency again. The few millions you're taking in for a training fund, that's too little, that's too late, that's not long-term. The health and care staff are at the limit. It's five after twelve. The situation is as follows: The staff emergency is now much greater than the beds. This is also caused by this policy of not being able to combat this chaos about pandemic. That's the truth, that's the facts. What are you doing? – You prefer to argue a lot when it comes to this, Mr Vice-Chancellor: Now, do we make an exit lock at night or do we not? – This is your problem in the government now, instead of putting solutions, including care, on the table. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Third example: To combat long-term unemployment. Even there: too late, too little, too halfhearted – in the belief, the market will somehow regulate this. We as SPÖ have in all these areas – in all these areas! – put proposals on the table. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] You excluded us, you didn't listen to us. They just swept it away and said: We'll solve it all by ourselves! The facts and the truth are others: You didn't solve anything. That's why we'll give you a hand in the next three days. We as SPÖ are going to make numerous requests on how to fix this budget, how to make it possible for people in our country to find a future that they can find a good life and, above all, a common life. Voices You're asking for us!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e13303	Member's head has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e13324	Mr President. Estimated Minister of Finance! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators at home! This budget for the year 2022, which we are starting to debate today, supports on the one hand the economic upturn in this country, it strengthens the purchasing power of the people in that country, but it also promotes sustainability and at the same time stabilises the state budget. It's almost a square of the circle, but it's working for us. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] Who does not want to believe it in this description: Let us turn to the facts! Let us take the Wifo as a neutral, objective, independent economic research institution and see what the Wifo has said about this budget over the last few days! It notes that private households are being relieved by EUR 2.8 billion – with an increasing trend. In 2026, there will already be 7 billion euros of discharge for private households. That increases the purchasing power of people, that is, the people have more in the wallet. [[Abg. Kassinger: That's not even enough for...!]] Let us also take the budget service of our own home to assess the budget, because the cold progression has also been mentioned over and over again! The budget service confirms this budget and, above all, the tax reform, which is behind it, that with this tax reform, which we are putting on the table at the same time in the next few weeks, cold progression has been more than balanced since the last tax reform in 2016. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Loacker: That's not true!]] – If you don’t want to believe it in the budget service – otherwise you believe him quite a lot, and so do I. Ladies and gentlemen! This discharge of households is based on a tariff reduction, on the reduction of the SV contributions, on the increase in the family bonus and the increase in the amount of children and much more. However, this budget also contains a number of economic policies, which also increase and secure economic power in this country – and that in turn brings jobs. This saves jobs and brings new jobs, ladies and gentlemen. I can only mention the investment premium, the investment exemption and the corporate tax reduction, also the huge contribution to the reformed National Foundation for Top Research – all these are measures that the Wifo also confirms to us that they are making a huge contribution to the stabilisation of economic power in our country. The Minister of Finance has already mentioned it: Eco Austria also confirms that this budget and the tax reform will bring a further growth effect on GDP of 1 percent, so that next year we will have an economic growth of 5 percent – say and write 5 percent! - can be expected. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Let's go. Let's go.]] Of course, we have brought this country through the crisis very well economically. Wifo also confirms that this economic growth of 4.5 percent this year and of next year with 5 percent is also due – in addition to tax reform and other things – to the well-designed and reasonable economic aid. That is, we have led this country economically very, very well through the crisis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, this budget also contains respectable incentives for climate protection: The thermal renovation, heating exchange support and the air-conditioning ticket for public transport are only mentioned here. Above all, however, it is clear that, despite proper efforts in spending on all these future measures, our debt ratio is gradually due to us. It will be only 79.1 percent at the end of next year, compared with all the unknowings of supposedly almost 90 percent that we have heard. No, it will be 79 percent – with a marked decline in trend even for the years after. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! To this budget remains the assessment I mentioned earlier: It supports the economic upturn, this budget strengthens the purchasing power of the people in Austria, this budget promotes sustainability, and with this budget we at the same time stabilise the state budget – a budget that can be seen and that gives people in this country stability, security and the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e13411	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e13432	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear colleague Karlheinz Kopf, if I listen to you or to you, if I listen to Peter Haubner, I am always waving: Of course you have to talk about the budget, but that is already at the limit of the refusal of reality and the loss of reality, which is partly presented here. I will go into it later, but first of all to the Federal Minister. Mr. Federal Minister, I have the feeling that Finance Minister isn't really yours. You don't have passion for that. I think that Minister of Culture in the Federal Chancellery was much more of yours than Minister of Finance. It seems so strong to me. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They have also made some drastic strategic misevaluations sound. Now I don't want to do – but I do – your assessment of a few weeks ago: The pandemic is over!, endeavor – a total misevaluation. I don't want to go either. Their misconception is that the eco-social tax reform is not a foundry reform. – Of course! Mr Hammer confirmed that 2 minutes after you. Each individual will receive a fixed amount according to some non-comprehensible criteria. Of course, it is a large casting canning machine, in which you take away 500 million euros before and then distribute 1.2 billion euros according to non-intelligible foundations. Mr Fuchs has already said that there is the case that you get 130 euros in houses with odd numbers on the same street and 100 euros in houses. So all of this has nothing to do with a structured, strategic economic and tax policy – with all love and all understanding. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Your next misevaluation you made 5 minutes ago: “Vaccination works,” that is, the manufacture of a causality between the state’s overall well-being and the fact that someone has been vaccinated or not. “The vaccination works” and derives from it various things, because even colleague Schramböck is contradicting you, who today has health minister Mückstein aligned so to speak, he should also strive to order medication – to a sufficient extent – and not push everything towards vaccination. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Smart]] I would communicate a little more with Mrs Schramböck in your place. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] The budget is always the reflection of the entire economic and location policy, and we have already heard it: Everything's good! - Nothing's good! Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the citizens now have some more in the wallet, but this is gone in the same millisecond: by exploding gas prices, exploding electricity prices, exploding fuel prices, exploding construction costs, exploding producer prices. This is gone in the same hundredth of a second, and you are also responsible for it with your chaotic economic policy, shaped by high plan economic components. [[towards ÖVP]] I am surprised at the former ÖVP economic party, for which the state can now judge everything at once. To the whole climate policy, this is a permanent planned integration of the state into the free economy. You really have to say: The former economic party ÖVP has adopted itself as an economic party. Now it applies: The state judges everything and directs everything. With the Greens I understand that, but with the ÖVP I am totally lacking in understanding. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are a few very bad things to see on the horizon – of course you are responsible for it with your economic and location policy over the past few years – and this causes the governor of the Austrian National Bank, Holzmann, sleepless nights – I can share – Mr. Finanzminister Blümel obviously not: There can be a galloping inflation. Although the current consumer price index of 3 per cent may look small, we all know that the consumer price index is always down by four to six months. So inflation will rise significantly. & Again: People then have more in the stock exchange, but from the purchasing power it is less. The risk of inflation will be completely ignored in your budget. The economic growth forecasts, Wifo, all this is beautiful and good, but all these risk scenarios are completely ignored. This budget is far too optimistic. In which case: We are talking about a budget that is already planning a deficit of 12 billion euros, but even that is optimistic. If you say that the budget is a little better than planned, I have to say: The plan was minus 35 billion euros. That's an inconceivably large number. The Swiss National Council President was here today, and Peter Haubnerhat said we have a lot in common with Switzerland. Yes, we have a lot in common: We have skilled people with a good education who want to finance and achieve their own economic life, but then we are already done with the common people, because if you compare the figures you present here with this budget with the Swiss figures, then I must say that is another cosmos, as far as the additional wage costs are concerned, as far as government debt is concerned, as far as the deficits are concerned, and so on. So there we are already near the loss of reality. Once again – and with this I would like to conclude –: The budget is a reflection of economic and location policy. And in the essential things, in the essential fields of action, you have completely failed. Of course, you could have taken advantage of the Corona crisis as an opportunity to use the Corona crisis for honest, far-reaching structural reforms, for chamber reforms. You didn't do anything! They could have used the corona crisis for a meaningful, effective and efficient red tape reduction. You didn't do anything! On the contrary, we have already heard today, the entire construction of the CO2 tax, Mr Fuchs has said it, is a bureaucracy sample. They could have used the crisis for an honest tax and tax reduction. We have a lot of too high pay extra costs. You can't even get rid of the cold progression. A few pocket-player tricks, such as the briefing of the family burden compensation fund contributions, which at the same time gives the family tax compensation fund billions of debts and that needs to be cross-financed by the budget, are not an honest tax and tax reform. They could have used the crisis for an honest administrative reform in the sense of further development of the administration towards an administration as a citizen. What are you doing? – Exactly the opposite, the administration is now increasingly becoming a control and criminal instrument of the Federal Government. They could have introduced elements of direct democracy. You didn't do anything! As far as expenditure is concerned, they could have been based on the principles of economy, efficiency and accuracy. You didn't do anything about that! They use the large casting pot: Money's gone, everyone gets more. - Yes, but from where? You must take this away from the citizens, the taxpayers. The whole thing has reached an extent that is no longer acceptable to us liberals as a true economic party. This is a huge redistribution mechanism. The Minister of Finance says that the greatest thing about the current budget is: I've secured me 5 billion euros as a resource. 5 billion – this is the volume of a big tax reform! – which the Minister of Finance now has on its own. – So that’s not the way it is! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the end, the question will be: Who pays the whole bill? Who pays the exploding deficits? Who pays the debt? Who pays the expenses according to the motto: Money has been abolished!Unknown term type: "%s".? – Yes, of course, at the end of the small, the citizens, the small business, the medium-sized – not the large corporations, they have loopholes. We are also moving in this direction with this budget, and I do not want to be the Kassandra here now, but it also causes me sleepless nights, not only the National Bank Governor Prof. Holzmann. If we continue like this, it will end completely, very evil! I see no positive structural development at all, no positive signals in this budget. I've seen a squirrel for the last two, three years. But at some point the limit is reached and at some point it will become really unpleasant, and we don't want to. There would have been the possibility today to stop and prevent many of these negative developments. You have missed this and you will have to assume full responsibility for it if, as it were, the payday comes.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e13556	Next speaker: Mrs Meri Disoski. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e13578	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! 18.4 million euros – this is the amount some are trying to claim that the government would spend it exclusively for women and equality, and therefore also for the protection of violence and for the prevention of violence. If you deliberately look at the budget indiscriminately, you may actually come to this conclusion. On the other hand, if you look at the budget more differentiated, more serious and carry out a different analysis, you will also come to another conclusion, and I would like to show it on the basis of three questions. First: What about these 18.4 million euros? – 18.4 million euros, this is the budget of the Ministry of Women, made available annually. For ten years the budget dimmed at around 10.2 million euros, 10.4 million euros. Now we have increased it for the third time in a row to 18.4 million euros, equivalent to an 81 percent increase. That can be seen. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Second question: 18.4 million euros in the Women's Ministry, is that all you do in the field of violence and violence prevention? – The answer is of course: No, no, no, Most of these 18.4 million euros, which I have just mentioned, are spent on anti-violence centres, emergency homes, women's emergency calls, women's services, women's and girls' services and other organisations. As I have just said, we have also increased these funds three times in a row. And, of course, other resorts have increased the resources for violence protection and for violence prevention in the last three budgets. And the package of anti-violence measures amounting to EUR 24.6 million is also very clear from this priority. Let us take a look at this, for example, at the Ministry of Justice. In this area, an additional 5.6 million euros will be spent on the prevention of violence. This will be the case, for example. Strengthening family and youth assistance, increasing legal and psychosocial process support. It has also implemented a long-standing demand by violent experts, by victim protection experts, that of including the issue of violence from the outset in the training of prosecutors and judges. This is a good, important step that the Minister of Justice has taken. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] We zoom into the Ministry of the Interior: Also, some 17 million euros have been budgeted for the protection of violence and for the prevention of violence. This means, among other things, that we finance the sacrifice-oriented crime work, which is enshrined in the Istanbul Convention, i.e. the work with violent agents; in most cases, it is men. This is what the violent researcher Birgitt Haller commented on on on the 2nd. November in the ORF as follows – I quote it –: I think it has been important for a long time to focus on the violent perpetrators, because I am convinced that it is an important preventive work to work with the perpetrators or with the potential perpetrators. - Quote. We also close this gap within the meaning of the Istanbul Convention with this budget, and that is a good thing. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Although we are still looking into the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs: Minister Mückstein, for example, is funding the social-space-oriented violence prevention project Stop – districts without partner force, the Association of Autonomous Austrian Women's Houses in Vienna, specifically in the 5th century. District, Margareten, has established. Minister Mückstein allows this really great project to be rolled out and expanded in seven federal states. In addition, the Minister has expanded the male telephone, which burgers and men can address in current conflict situations – there, for example, they will learn anti-violence training – and announced a large public campaign that addresses the issue of male violence and male imagery and is currently in preparation. These too are long-standing demands from anti-violence organisations that we will implement. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now, if you're wondering, What other women's policy accents will the Federal Government also set out and what will be necessary in future? – Clearly, there are some other accents that we set because women’s policy is not just violence and violence. For example, I would like to remind you of the great job offensive that was launched last year and is being continued, in which we have a dedicated focus in the education and training of women, especially in technology and also in green jobs. I can remind you – and perhaps Mr Stögmüller will also be able to listen – that we will use 50 percent of the AMS funding for women. [[Abg. Stögmüller talks with Mr Loacker and Mr Krisper]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lindner.]] I can remind you that we have already preferred some stages of tax reform in the previous year, such as the social security bonus of EUR 100. I should also like to point out that the introduction of the climate bonus, the reduction of health insurance contributions, and also the increase in the additional amount of children, especially those who pay no or little taxes – and these are, unfortunately, women. This is exactly the result of the need for action for the future: Women often persist in part-time jobs because they still have to do or do most of the unpaid care work, on the one hand because we do not have enough childcare facilities in Austria – the Federal Government is very clearly committed to building and expanding them across the board – and on the other hand because, as we know, we also have a very uneven distribution of unpaid care in Austria. With contemporary parental care models, with contemporary karenz models, which can also take fathers and men more into duty, we must and will change that. I see my speaking time is over. I can still talk a lot about the needs in women's policy now, and the other way round will continue. Maybe one last sentence: Women's policy is and remains not just drilling hard boards. Women's policy is a daily struggle for money and time, for representation, for real and also for symbolic power. I would like to meet all the blockers and concreteists who are unfortunately still here, and I would like to assure them that we Greens have a very, very long breath.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e13674	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e13695	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Estimated members of the Federal Government! If you listen to these speeches, you must be careful not to lose sight of the truth in the mist of self - renunciation. But this has happened to some of the incense bearers, and I am now taking the opportunity to get some things out of the fog back to the light. Colleague Head has told us how great the tax relief is and that people would now return what is being pulled out of their pocket over the cold progression – conjunctiv II. [[Abg. Obernoster: What is true is true!]] That's not the case. If For example, if you had a taxable income of 11 000 euros in 2016, they were tax-free. In the meantime, inflation has reached about 10 percent. Let's assume that your income would have increased with inflation, then you would now pay 20 percent tax for this additional EUR 1 100 – before your income was tax-free. Now the government expects you to thank yourself for paying 20 percent tax and not 25. This is the “relief” – under quotation marks – and this is the return of the cold progression with which the government still has its paws in your personal pocket. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] Then you get out of here and you say, We have such a great economic growth! Well, that's as great as the economy is growing! - Yeah, sure! Of course, it was also as deep as in Austria in very few countries of Europe of the divers. Now, if you just go down by 7 percent and then up by 5 percent, you're still below the pre-crisis level. That's a simple bill. However, the colleagues from the ÖVP simply count away from the basement, not from the starting point, and so this wonderful representation arises. The government is quite helpless in the fight against crisis. The Minister of Health of the Heugabel has something to do with the Minister of Health, then Kogler has to jump aside from the Minister of Health – yes, there we are restless – and then the Minister of Economic Affairs comes and wants to buy a little horse-driving equipment because she has been advised by Kickl. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Inter-calls by Members Kirchbaumer and Ottenschlager]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] – It’s really wonderful. If you look into the budget documents and into the budget accompanying law, you can see that the game is again expecting a huge crisis: We have had a pouvoir for unlimited means of short-time work. The Minister of Labour and the Minister of Finance can set themselves free by regulation without having to ask Parliament, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 billion euros, any amount, for short work. That's what only someone who actually wants it to do. – Please admit it! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] What you do with the short work: In the beginning the short work was important, in March, April 2020 it was important, but now it has become dysfunctional. They tear a huge hole into taxpayers' cash registers and allow companies to overcome their operational risks on taxpayers. For example, if BMW goes into short work in Steyr or Opel at the Aspern plant, there are workers in short work who would be needed in other production plants. So we take control money in order to finance BMW and Opel a retention program for their employees who are being searched elsewhere. This distorts competition on the labour market, and every company that maintains its supply chain through good management itself is the fool, because it has higher costs, and the taxpayer pays for the short work of those companies that have saved the supply chain. Then we come to the pensions: I have to address this because it is the most important and most important part of the budget. If you look at the period from 2019 to the end of the financial framework, up to 2025, then you see that the federal grant in subheading 22, i.e. in pensions, 50 percent, increases by half – and it's yours, you don't do anything. They make politics at the expense of the boys, politics at the expense of the future, because it is even more nice now that we distribute the money of the other people – without shame! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This is shameless, without character, without responsibility for the future generations. Then colleague Disoski comes out here and tells us about a few millions for violence and a few millions for the women's budget. But if you did, the Austrians would be able to have a month – just a month! – later on, it would be 191 million euros for a month. There you could go with your peanuts brewing. [[Abg. Hi, hello!]] Unfortunately, you don't want to tackle the important thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e13782	The next item is Mr Rudolf Taschner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e13804	Madam President. High house! I would like to begin by thanking Mr Hörl for allowing me to have the place in the Committee on Budgets to attend an important budget committee meeting, namely that committee meeting in which the experts discussed the budget. This was very instructive for me and reminded me again of the responsibility we assume as Members. Finally, after three days, we will actually vote for over 100 billion euros. These are eleven zeros – Mr Krainer will do exactly that – which is a huge sum, and we assume this responsibility by simply getting up. That's really impressive. It was really very important what these budget experts said to us. Of course, it was very good to hear from Prof. Christoph Badelt, President of the Fiscal Council, that we can present a good and very forward-looking budget. You can trust the words of Prof. Badelt, so I can give him the confidence: We have a solid budget to show. But not only that, there are also other experts who have also expressed their opinion: Also of great interest were the statements by the expert at SPÖ, the workers' chamber expert Markus Marterbauer, whose words were perhaps more differentiated in criticism than some words we heard today from the SPÖ. Of course, he sees a glass that we see half full, half empty, that is quite his right, and of course he has addressed certain criticisms that we must also take to heart. I would like to speak on two points: One is that this budget has an ecological touch because we have introduced the CO2 price – with certain suspensions. In my view, however, this CO2 prize would be best designed in such a way that you, Mr Finanzminister, should not take money through it at all, because we simply do not generate the CO2. I think it'll get better and better in the future. Mr Schwarz nodds because he knows that there are technological possibilities that we can really avoid CO2 and therefore do not get into business in the context of this taxation – i.e., a money prevention process by bringing this to a new stage with technologies – I am talking about hydrogen technology. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] That is one point, and I think that is a very important point, because it is important that we protect the climate. It is not a question of the Minister of Finance getting an incredible amount of money, but rather of protecting the climate, so that is a regulatory one, and we hope that this regulatory will work in such a way that you do not even notice this regulation. The other point is that this budget framework, which we decide here, is different from what Mr Marterbauer said. He meant that the good presence we have is not well enough in terms of social security and the like. It may be. I believe that this is really the difference between the two opinions, between the left and the right half of the empire. On the one hand, you want to have a good presence and have the good present better. On the other hand, we want a better future. I'm actually in favour of creating the better future. The budget also gives indications, not only by the fact that we want to promote the economy, for example by reducing corporate tax or investment premiums or other things, but also by doing something in education. Mrs Doppelbauer has said that 10 billion euros have received the educational budget. – That’s the highest value! She thinks the whole thing's just going to the salaries. – Not only; there are really measures that will lead to the future, and these measures, which will lead to the future, will ensure that we will then, with the higher profits, also master the difficulties we face. [[Abg. Künsberg Sarre: (shaking the head) The measures you are setting...!]] [[Abg. Greiner: Aha!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I remember when thatcher took part in the election against Callaghan, one asked a Labour Man – that was a simple worker –: What's going to be You choose? That's what he said: I choose Conservative now. That's what they asked: Why do you choose Conservative? And he said, Well, if I choose Labour, the thing would stay the way it is, maybe a little better, but if I choose Conservative, I have the chance that it will be much better. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: Brexit! Brexit! No trucks, no sausages, no gasoline – great! Congratulations on the conservative approach!]] – That was 1979, Mr. Cot, that was much earlier! That's a thematic mistake, what you've done now, but it doesn't matter. We'll get the future. If you say that this future would be neoliberal in a sense, I say, it's not neoliberal, it's Orthodox – and that's a good liberality – and if you say: This is the system that you transport here!, I say: Yes, that is the system short, that is a system of good future, and I would like to belong to it!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e13905	The next item is Mrs Julia Herr. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e13927	Madam President. High house! What's next year bringing? We see it when we take a look at the 2022 budget, because we see what there is money for and what there is no money for, or better who is asked for the cash and who benefits. In Austria, 85 percent of the tax revenue comes from work and consumption – i.e. by each of us when he goes to work or buys a coffee – and only about 15 percent by taxes on profits and assets. In hardly any other country, this tax structure is as poor as in Austria – 85 percent taxes on work and consumption, only 15 on profits and assets! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But instead of going here now and saying: We relieve working people!, the Federal Government shifts this imbalance once again in favour of the wealth and corporations in this country – for which you lower the profit tax, and thus we lack about 1 billion euros per year. This is a blow to the face for every employee, for every worker who does her work every day, who has to obtain a small or average income and always, need to finance larger and larger parts of the social state. That's not fair. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But what budget would we need? – One that sets real course for the future and sets a focus on health. We talk about it every day that we have too few health professionals that the staff is overburdened that the intensive care stations fill up, that the beds are not enough, and even before Corona it has often taken months for you to have a doctor's appointment. And what is in the budget now, Mr. Finanzminister? – 130 million euros less than last year for hospitals! No one understands. I don't understand. That doesn't make sense. We need a budget that provides the best possible medical care for all, and finally fair paid personnel, solidarity with all those who have gone on the road in recent weeks and fought for fair working conditions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We also need a budget that finally makes a clear announcement in child care, a comprehensive quality childcare with opening hours, which are finally compatible with an 8-hour day, with a full-time job. Then there is the real freedom of choice for women: Do I stay at home with the child or do I go to work? - There's no such thing now. She's being taken by women in the country. That would have been a sign of the future, but exactly this project has deliberately prevented Sebastian Kurzja and prevented it to this day. My previous speaker just explained: The system is short still there! – Yes, that only means that we have no comprehensive childcare in this country. [[Abg. Baumgartner: That's not true!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Diesner-Wais.]] What we need would also be a genuine Green New Deal, a socially just transformation into climate-friendly life, with a CO2-neutral production and industry, which would create tens of thousands of new jobs, and of course also a socially just energy policy, which means that households need subsidies, for example now in winter, when energy costs rise. Please don't let anyone sit in the middle of one of the richest countries in the world in a cold apartment! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All of this, for all these promises of the future, of course, requires investment, which is clear, but these are investments that, by the way, benefit everyone. Investments in social infrastructure always have a positive distribution effect, quite unlike those profits that you lower for your friends – not all of them benefit from it. Here you see – and I come to the conclusion – where this budget is running out: Even if there are, of course, a few praiseworthy points, it is a total budget that will result in better service providers staying and lower earnings, which are already difficult anyway, being less, and this ultimately hurts us all together. [[Abg. Haubner: That's not true!]] We know, however, that another budget would be possible. We are still making many, many applications for this today. Please vote! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e14009	The next item is Mrs Agnes Sirkka Prammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e14031	Madam President. Estimated Minister of Finance! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! The budget regularly shows us where the focus of state work lies. Many of these points have already been discussed in detail. I would like to focus on another area, with the figure 131 million, 65 million, 76 million euros. These are the additional funds that have recently been invested in justice: 131 million 2020, 65 million 2021, and 76 million more for the year 2022. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Why is that so important? – It is therefore important because first of all damage limitation had to be carried out, then the system had to be permanently secured, and now you can implement future-oriented projects. We always talk about justice so abstractly, but what is it? – Austria is a rule of law, we all know that. This means that, at the end of the day, an independent court decides on every form of state action. That sounds simple, but it's actually the heart of our state order. If we didn't, life would look quite different for each and every one of us. It also means, however, that the right, the court or the judicial system as a whole must be understood by people. In this context, I would like to draw attention to a very important professional group, namely the interpreters of the court. This budget has finally achieved a substantial increase in the fees for this important profession. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The important work being done there is much more than simply translating. These people are language intermediaries. They not only translate words, they not only translate what the court asks, but they understand what the court wants to know. They ensure that one not only understands the words, but that man is understood. This is the basis for truth finding and that is the basis for case law. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Scharzenberger.]] The long overdue increase in these tariffs is not only fair for individuals, it is also very important for the instrument of case law. It's very important for that. that qualified, highly qualified people continue to work in this important profession. Another important point, of course, is that justice will also make its actions, its work understandable to people. To this end, the Public Prosecutors' Media Office will make a significant contribution. However, there is also an important point in investment which is now possible in the area of action. In the course of action, mentally ill people have been housed who have committed crimes. Due to the previous chronic sub-financing of this area, the conditions for all those involved there were really not in line with the standard that would be worthy of Austria. Now there is the possibility to create situations by expanding a special care facility, that on the one hand, the sick will receive the support they need, on the other hand, but also the employees have the support they need to be able to take care of with the necessary peace and attention to their profession, just as they really want to do. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Once again, to return to this chronic sub-financing that existed before: The beginning of this was that the judicial system had to finance its current expenditure from the reserves. That's how it all started. Don't let it come back! It still threatens this danger, for example at the Constitutional Court. This can happen once, you take it as a warning sign, but you must not prolong it. One thing is: Let's put justice to rest! The other thing is: Let's give her the resources we need!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e14125	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e14146	Madam President. Estimated government members! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! Do you know why this budget will not last at all? – Because this government is able to block healthy people from the economy. Healthy people are more or less locked in because of you at home. You can't take part in economic events, they can't go shopping, they can't consume in the gastronomy et cetera. This program, which you are doing today and here, estimated government, is one that only supports the multi-groups Amazon and Co; but the small and medium-sized enterprises that lose turnover are really the poor. This policy is by no means factual. We and I are shocked that you have known since July that there will be a fourth wave. This is what the Minister of Health has announced to us during the budget deliberations. [[Abg. Loacker: The FPÖ has not said that there will be a fourth wave!]] What did you do? – Since July, they have put in place the wrong measures which are not based on facts. Let me give you a few examples. I repeat that since September in this House I have been pointing out that vaccinations, Mr Minister, do not work as you believe. It would be good for you if you would also allow a little science to be involved in the assessment of your political work and would not simply push away the opinion of the opposition. [[The speaker put a panel containing information on “CDC Centers for Disease Control and Prevention” on the speaker’s desk.]] Fact is – and you should have been since 6. August this year knows that the American Disease Authority, the CDC, has published it in its Weekly Report – that vaccinated persons can pick up the virus and, in some cases, pass on it even in a stronger intensity. Go for it! On this panel is the address. You should know that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] You should also know the numbers of your own health authority, the Ages, which also repeatedly reports massive vaccinations. I have here the official notice of the Ages of 2. In addition: Of the over 60-year-olds, there have been 68.62 percent vaccinations. What does that mean? – That people who have been vaccinated have received the virus and have also passed on almost 70 percent! Minister, 70 percent of the vaccinated people in the age group over 60 have passed on the virus. The vaccination has not had the effect you have addressed. That really causes suffering! This causes suffering for all healthy people who are imprisoned at home because of the wrong assessment of the government, to be sent to a lockdown just because you are unable to include scientific facts only in your political calculation. In this context, I would like to read to you a letter from the recent obsessor of the Young ÖVP Osttirol and State Obsessor Christina Staffler, who is dissociating with horror in an open letter from your policy, from the ÖVP policy and from government policy. I quote from this letter, which was made medially known: “The measures of our government are no longer comprehensible.” “I say STOP to split society, stop this discrimination, STOP on this hound hunt for non-vaccinated, STOP on duty and STOP on this POLITIC! With this I clearly distance myself from the ÖVP and LH Platter [...]. The letter is also an official withdrawal from the party.” We need more such courageous personalities, who show that this policy is inaccurate, factless, who have the courage to say: [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] It's enough for us! The hatred against the unvaccinated, who operates this government, is an insanity! Leave They ask people to decide for themselves, just as the Freedom Party does, whether they want to be vaccinated or not. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] However, please do not ignore the scientific facts, and please do not ignore the massive increase in the number of deaths reported to the EMA. [[The speaker put a table on the speaker's desk, on which various vaccines and the number of reportedly related deaths are presented.]] In the meantime, official figures indicate that 17 252 deaths related to covid vaccination and, in the database, 1 161 000 adverse reactions, light, medium and severe, have been reported to the EMA. Please note that a maximum of 2 to 6 percent of deaths and side effects are reported to the EMA! You can multiply this number all the time with 50. One thing is clear: Not everyone in his environment will know someone who has died, but everyone in his environment will know someone who has side effects – and that is why the people do not want to be vaccinated. You ignore this, you hide it and still assume from the narrative that vaccination is using in all areas – which it unfortunately does not do to God. That is why we, as the Freedom Party, want to stand before the citizens and say: It is your decision whether you want to be vaccinated or not! Please also consider the entire width of science hidden by the government. To all those who have already been vaccinated: We're really sorry that you came across this government propaganda because the vaccination at Weitem doesn't bring what you promised people. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Abg. Loacker]] - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e14222	Next speaker: Mr Andreas Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e14243	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are actually debating the 2022 budget and the medium-term financial plan by 2025. Mr Hauser is debating Corona, and from my point of view it is necessary to say a few things about this. Point 1: Yes, there are vaccinations, no question at all. Point 2: Yes, you can discuss any measure. But, Mr Hauser, please note that it is quite simply such that vaccination is the only chance to combat the pandemic. It is quite simple fact that in the intensive care stations there are mainly people who are not vaccinated. It is fact that the incidences in the vaccinated are much lower than in the unvaccinated. Just talk to your colleague from the Styrian Landtag, who is now also calling for vaccination. Please stop putting these things in the room, that just doesn't help us! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] To the budget: From my point of view, there is a very remarkable budget at the table, and I would like to add four key figures: [[Call the SPÖ: That's right!]] Primary identifier: Debt. Before the pandemic, we were on the way to putting debt below 60% of GDP. This is, I think, a very essential aspect, because debt has to be repaid sometime. The pandemic then led to a very high level of debt. By the way: Throughout all party borders, we have said that this is right and good, we must fight the pandemic economically – and this has been achieved to a high degree. With the medium-term financial plan and, of course, with economic growth as the basis, it is possible to bring relative debt back to 70 percent. People have said very often: It is important that you invest in the pandemic fight, but who pays back the debt?, and it is already an incredibly positive news that the relative debt goes back very quickly, that is a clear sign of the high credit quality of the Republic. A second aspect is very important to me, probably the most important feature at all when we discuss budgets: That is the question of unemployment. We are below the pre-crisis level, we have regions in which we are talking about labour shortages. It is incredibly important for a society itself to have people in employment, and this, of course, also helps us in the budget because we have to spend less money on labour market measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thank you. The third fact – based on the basic forecasts made by the Wifo – has of course not been taken into account for the latest pandemic development: We have an incredible economic growth, and yes, because we are an export-oriented nation, this growth is also driven internationally, no question at all, but economic researchers have confirmed that the measures of the Federal Government bring 1 percent more economic growth. This, of course, helps us a lot in the overall budget design. I find the fourth number remarkable again and again – it also has shadow pages, no question at all –: We are financing our debt with the lowest interest rate we have ever had at the moment 1.4 percent of GDP, at the end of medium-term financial planning 0.8 percent; strongly rising debt indeed – which is falling relatively – but less interest. This also has disadvantages, not even a question, when you think about savings, but that helps us very much, and, you have to hold on to it, it is not God-given, but it is evidenced by an enormously good economic policy in recent years. Our economy, our Republic simply has a high credit quality – and that is already an aspect that we can be proud of. In conclusion, three aspects: The budget and the tax reform are borne by discharge, which is fact. The first level has already been completed, the second and third levels now come, reduction in health insurance contributions, family bonus plus. People are relieved, it remains more net of gross. We are creating a start to ecologisation. I think that is also very important in person, but we must make this locationable and also regionally compatible, which is why we support the climate bonus very much. Finally, one aspect that is very important to me: The budget also shows that we are finally doing something about the taxation of digital companies. Austria was always a pioneer. I am also very pleased personally that this minimum tax rate has now been introduced at a global level. So briefly: The 2022 budget and the medium-term financial framework have many positive aspects, and I am looking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e14289	Next came Mr Christoph Matznetter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e14310	My previous speaker, Mr Hanger, has referred to Mr Hauser as follows: We are not talking about the pandemic, we are talking about the budget. – Well, I am right to say to Mr Hanger, the economic researchers, whom we had here in the budget hearing ten days ago, have rightly confirmed us – including Professor Badelt of the Wifo, who was sitting where the Secretary of State is now sitting – that the effects of further measures in the fight against pandemics are not included in this budget – in the forecast and thus the basis for these budget figures, and therefore I even have to give ÖVP deputy Tashner a right: [[Abg. Jakob Schwarz: Not in the forecast!]] We should trust Professor Badelt. That means, however, in the case in hand here, that this Federal Government has obviously not been able for months to make the necessary perspective for day-to-day policy. Before the summer, when today’s parliamentarian Kurz was still German Chancellor, the ÖVP “challenged Pandemia”. They made only one mistake: You shouldn't have believed your own propaganda. You should have used it this summer in order to prepare for our targeted activities in the pandemic in such a way that we do not need any further measures, have no fourth wave, have no records of normal and intensive care stations in the hospitals, have no situation that Salzburg's national clinics, like today, must call out the emergency situation. It's all over there: We as ÖVP wanted to make political propaganda, “lorded pandemia” – at a time when nothing was mastered, nothing was prepared and, as we see in the black-run federal states, we do not even have the test offer enough, we do not talk about vaccination. That's your policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now I'm coming to this budget. We've had a lockdown since yesterday. What does Mr Blümel's Minister of Finance tell us today, on the second day, about the necessary assistance for businesses, for example for small and small businesses? – I have a budget allocation of EUR 5 billion, and there are still measures that are still going on. – Mr Finanzminister, the hardening fund has run out – it is the basis for life for the little ones! The guarantee can be made until 15. If you are asked to do so on December 1st, it will be over. The only thing that goes over the turn of the year is short work. They leave the businesses and thus the employers in the rain hundreds of thousands of employees. That is the reality, and that is not a budget anyone can agree with in this House. We are in the crisis, we have a problem and we have a government that does nothing to solve the problem. Shame, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e14353	The next item is Mrs Eva Blimlinger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e14374	Madam President. Minister of State and Federal Ministers! I would like to refer to two areas: science and, on the other hand, art and culture. Science and research are very urgently needed right now. The science hostility, which is widespread in Austria, must be said, is also reflected in the studies published by the EU. I strongly recommend reading the Eurobarometer wherever it is clear that Austria is among the last within the EU when it comes to whether people believe that science and research are useful to them. That is, we need to do a lot of things and think very intensively about how we can improve this situation and this situation, so that people – including politicians of course – understand that science and research are making progress. Of course, there are also errors in research, not a question, but that is exactly the point. In science, it is about research, rebutting, bringing results et cetera. For this reason, I am particularly pleased that the National Foundation has succeeded in teaching with 140 million euros. Yes, from the situation that we need research and science, it could still be more. These 140 million euros actually guarantee the excellence programmes in the future of Austria. This guarantees a wide range of research and, above all, that Austria is extremely good at participating in EU research projects, in the major calls for proposals. I'm glad you did. Estimate science, appreciate the results of research! I mean not only natural science or medicine, but also other sciences and other research areas. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The second area is art and culture. At EUR 557.1 million, it has been possible to reach the highest art and culture budget that has ever existed in the Republic. I'm particularly pleased. They know that artists are also financially under special pressure. Perhaps it succeeds – let's see how Corona develops – but get another support. It's not contained in it because we all hoped it's over. What is also important to me in this context is the guarantee or increase of the basic fee for the Bundestheater and Bundesmuseen. This has been the first time for years. These measures include measures for fair pay, In particular, in order to finally reach a conclusion of the collective agreement in the Federal Museums – in the Bundestheaters there is it – in order to achieve a good perspective for the employees there. Of course, I still believe that the Windisch-Kaserne should be renamed Richard-Wadani-Kaserne. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e14429	Next speaker: Mrs Karin Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e14450	Madam President. Dear Seers! High house! What kind of title could we give to this budget? [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Budget!]] He could say: Gifts for Turkish patrons, bad times for workers. What does this budget mean? – It favours generous donors by giving them 1 billion euros of tax money. Corporate tax is reduced, taxes on profits remain low. Although profits rise by 25 percent, taxation increases by 3 percent. What, on the other hand, do we do for the workers? – It is said that it is the biggest tax reform of all time, and they benefit from it. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Haven't you read it?]] However, it is not said that possible benefits will be reaped from the cold progression, that in particular many low-earners will be overrun by the wave of inflation. We see this on the basis of rising energy prices at present. This budget is a continuation of the non-social and chaotic activities of the Federal Government in recent years: Bad pandemic management – Mr Haubner, you shake your head, even you have slept with your group, with your government members twice a summer – the government ignores acute social focus. Yes, what did the government do when the nursing staff and the educators of the elementary area went on the street, their frustration, their anger and unfortunately already resigned? Noticing with an armpit? That's it? Where's the Coronabonus? – Still not paid! You comfort, the care reform will change everything. Ex-Chancellor Kurz has promised: She's coming, she's coming. Yeah, where is she? How is this to be financed by 1.5 billion euros, which are not shown in the budget? You ignore this problem! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Other construction site: Where is the kindergarten billions that would be urgently needed for appropriate care in the municipalities? [[Abg. Gödl: It's been spent a long time!]] – Mr Gödl, where is the kindergarten billion? That would have been financed. [[Further calls of the Abg. Gödl.]] This would have been financed by the bank levy if Mitterlehner and Kern had had this on rail. What did your Federal Chancellor, the former Chancellor do? He said: “Can I incite a federal country?” – This is what an ex-Bundeskanzler has to say. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Another point, which is particularly important to me as the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors, is transparency. How does this Federal Government deal with taxpayers, how does the Minister of Finance deal with taxpayers? Do we know what's going on with that? Let's take a look at the Cofag! Mr Federal Minister, you have transferred over EUR 9 billion to this financing agency, and they will be paid out as corona support from there. But we in Parliament do not know: how much, when, where exactly? That's more than 9 billion euros we can't find out where they're going. What kind of condition is that? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They say: Yeah, you can go into the advisory board anyway. – A member of the Advisory Board shall sign a secretory clause. How does that make sense to the public? The citizens do not at all know what happened to these 9 billion euros, and that is a scandal. We have set up numerous initiatives to install a Cofag Subcommittee. As a Member of Parliament, we would have the right to question that you would be obliged to provide information. But you don't want to. I think you're a little afraid of control, you of the ÖVP. They from the Greens support this course and protect the Blackbox instead of informing citizens. Ladies and gentlemen! We as SPÖ expect a transparent approach. We expect the budget for the next year to be environmentally and socially fair. Your budget is nothing of all. It is by no means appropriate to balance social disbalances. It ignores real social focus. They go beyond employees, they ignore the problems of low-earners, but they serve the turquoise patrons. We as SPÖ cannot accept such a budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e14544	Next speaker: Mrs Angela Baumgartner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e14569	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Mrs. Minister! With this budget, we create a basis for living in a country where prosperity and economic development are guaranteed in the future. The budget stands for recovery, stability and sustainability. In the time of the crisis, we were able to invest heavily. This has made it possible for a solid budget that we generated in the previous years through surpluses and debt reduction. Thus we were able to support the people in Austria. The economic conditions are favourable, and we are currently experiencing an economic upturn. The Wifo expects an increase of 4.8 percent in 2022. Through the upswing and this growth, we can lead our budget again properly and reduce our debts. The debt ratio will decline to 79.1 percent in 2022, and a zero deficit will probably be reached in 2025. Another turbo for this is the eco-social tax reform. We provide relief for the working people, i.e. 18 billion euros by 2025. We lower the tax rates, increase the family bonus and add up the child. We strengthen the stakeholders of low income, agriculture and our location by reducing corporate tax. Summary: We relieve the people who want the wheel to turn on, who want to build up something, people who contribute to our country's development and prosperity. The eco-social tax reform is not only the core of the budget, but also the DNA of the ÖVP, namely the idea of the eco-social market economy. It also clearly shows our zeitgeist: Sustainability and climate welfare through technology and innovation. Mr. Loacker of the NEOS, I really appreciate you as a very well done, well-trained politician, but that you are here and our minister as “minister” from the Heugabel – last thing you said to us in the Health Committee, and one of your colleagues showed us in our direction at a meeting in July and called us a bunch of uneducated people – that doesn’t fit you! That's a disrespect, and I think that doesn't fit with you at all. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In any case, this budget is a foundation for our recovery and for our common restart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e14623	The next speaker is Mrs Selma Yildirim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e14644	Madam President. High house! Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! The tax money of the Austrians is not play money, even if it was used as such in the system in short. 1.2 billion euros for the extension of childcare were prevented. The abolition of cold progression was prevented. Instead, there is the accusation that surveys and media reports have been purchased with tax money. The Public Prosecutor's Office determines. Clients are also being used in this budget instead of making urgent improvements for the general public. The price will eat people's incomes, while large-scale donors of the ÖVP will be happy about tax gifts. EUR 9 billion will continue to be withdrawn from parliamentary control. There are hardly any improvements for the care and health sector, no kindergarten billions. Estimated employees in the public service, who always do valuable work for the functioning of our country and have done it especially in the last two years! The health and education system works well. Supply and security are guaranteed for all of us. The rule of law provides excellent services. This is because, despite constant reduction in staff and savings, all public servants want to fulfil their tasks not only with great commitment and commitment, but also with a sense of duty. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, at this point! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, with a budget you can also look into the future. And what do we see for the future? – We see that the failures of recent years have become a real problem. Why? – Public service has been broken down in many areas. There is an blatant lack of staff, and this in turn leads to poor working conditions. How long can the competent and conscientious public servants hold up with personal commitment? The current crisis makes it clear, particularly in the health and care sector, that there is a lack of personnel. However, this shortage will continue to increase in many other areas, as in the next 13 years about half of the public staff will retire. What is your answer, Mr. Finanzminister? – In financial management, you are forcing digitization. But can computers replace people? Can computers counteract the lack of personnel? In the area of the rule of law, which is very important for democracy, it will hardly be possible to recruit judges, judges, prosecutors or prosecutors within a very short time. It's a requirement for us to think about something. There are legal-scientific staff in the Constitutional Court, the Administrative Court or the Federal Administrative Court. These would also be necessary in the Federal Financial Courts and in the ordinary courts, at least there already to carry out staff planning once and for all. These are great challenges, ladies and gentlemen! If you look at this budget in detail, you realize that it still bears the short handwriting of the system, and it is an expression of a missing corona policy. Instead of a budget with improvements for the general public to which one meets the working population, corporations and large donors are still served, but not the care emergency ended and not the kindergarten billions implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e14699	The next speaker is Mr Markus Koza. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e14720	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today the general debate on the budget takes place. As can be expected, the eco-social tax reform is, of course, very much discussed. On the opposition side, it is always assumed that this tax reform is neither social nor environmental. Yes, allegations can easily be made, you can claim a lot. The question is: Do these claims actually hold a fact-finding check, or are they just that saying? It is very welcome that in recent weeks we have not only obtained analyses from party headquarters as regards the alleged distribution effect of the tax reform, but also that there are now more and more analyses of economic research institutes, of economic policy institutions, for example from the Fiscal Council already mentioned. The exciting thing is that the Fiscal Council comes to quite different results from the opposition. First of all, I would like to say something that is often forgotten or too little taken into account in today's debate. [[Abg. Deimek: Every scientist and every professor can be bought!]] The tax reform we have now is only part of it. Indeed, a good part of the tax reform has already been preferred in 2020 to offset the social and economic hardships of the Corona crisis. [[Abg. Fuchs: The NoVA Elevation!]] – Mr Fuchs, you know very well: The entry tax rate has been reduced from 25 percent to 20 percent, and the social security bonus has been increased by EUR 100 to EUR 400 for workers' groups who do not pay income tax. [[Abg. Fuchs: And the NoVA increase?]] This package alone accounted for 1.7 billion euros of tax relief. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP]] , EUR 1.7 billion, which are no longer taken into account in the current analyses of the economic research institutes. That means you always have to keep in mind: It is not only now that this discharge, this fiscal measure, is taking place, but it has already taken place a lot. Let us now actually look at the very specific figures! There are, for example, the first results of the Fiscal Council. [[The speaker holds a table with a column diagram entitled “Distribution of eco-social tax reform to private households”.]] Interestingly, it is based on a distribution effect of the tax reform, which, in particular, favours the lowest incomes, the lowest incomes five, the lowest incomes. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] See: Only the strongest income fifth, the 20 percent of the richest households, has the slightest relief. Even if the CO2 tax is deducted from this discharge, overall, a very stable discharge for the lower and medium income groups remains, a stablely equally high discharge, while in the top income groups the discharge remains the lowest. That is what I call socially sound and socially balanced. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Because we always say a comparison makes I am sure that I will come to the supposedly biggest tax reform of all time in 2015/16. I do not claim that this is now the biggest tax reform, I have never claimed it. However, it was repeatedly claimed that 2015/16 was the largest tax reform ever decided. Let us now look at how the distribution effect on the different households was on the poor and the richer households, at a tax reform decided under a Social Democratic Chancellor. [[The speaker holds a table with a column diagram entitled “Compare Tax Reform 2015/16 – Ecosocial Tax Reform”.]] Let's take a look at the low incomes! How does that look? – Oioioioiii! At that time, the lowest income tenth received a 1.5 percent tax relief. Today it's 3.5 percent. In the second poorest tenth and third poorest tenths, the discharge was almost stable. Now let's see how it was with the richest households! [[The speaker holds a further table with a column diagram entitled “Compare Tax Reform 2015/16 – Ecosocial Tax Reform”.]] See: Oioioioiii! This incredibly social tax reform in 2015/16 was by far higher than in this eco-social tax reform than in the case of the richest households. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With this eco-social tax reform, especially with this climate bonus, which really benefits all households, we have achieved one thing: the entry into real ecologicalisation. We have also achieved a social compensation in the tax system, for which we must not be ashamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e14826	Next speaker: Mrs Carmen Jeitler-Cincelli. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e14847	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Minister and Minister of State! Dear colleagues! I would also like to say a few words, Gerald Loacker, because I felt this the same way before. I have to tell you, I thought: It's humiliating. A colleague from the SPÖ even told me that he found it sexistic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] I would question that, but in my opinion it would be worth an excuse. You say “Minister of the Heugabel” and then you talk about shamelessness and so on – I just don’t think that’s necessary. You are also often the self-proclaimed instance in your tonality. I think an excuse would be okay. [[In the case of the ÖVP, MEPs of the Greens and the Agg. Kucharovich.]] Jörg Leichtfried told me that good speeches start with a question. Dear Jörg, I now ask a question: What's next Sunday? – The next Sunday is the 21. November. I've been looking at: Next Sunday, Johannes has his name day. Otherwise, nothing will happen next Sunday, and I'm tired that this House will be constantly held as if every Sunday elections were taking place. That's how it goes on a tour. I don't think it should be our action ceilings that we evaluate Sunday surveys to an extent that they are the whole purpose, for whom we are actually there. On Sunday there is no choice, even on Sunday after that there is no choice, and many Sundays after that there will be no choice either. That is why I am asking Just because of the reason that we do the right thing in the time we have in between. I would therefore like to make a very clear plea to the colleagues of the FPÖ. We want to make a future policy. I counted earlier: Mr. Dr. Kassinger and Mr. Dr. Fuchs, who both spoke, have eight academic titles together. There you can expect them to act evidence-based and think. There are clear facts. There is the group of 18- to 59-year-olds; the vaccinated have an incidence of 383 and the unvaccinated of 1,734. That's fourfold. Today: more than 10,000 new infections, 458 pedigrees in intensive care stations. Gentlemen, you too have a responsibility, and you cannot shift responsibility to the government or anywhere else. [[towards FPÖ]] They bear this responsibility. If your Secretary-General Schnedlitz sends videos that are shared thousands of times in which it is said that one is being pushed into the syringe, it is simply populist. Leave this nonsense and help with it! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We are continuing to carry out all the requests that are now being made by desperate entrepreneurs in the Economic Federation. I'll just send them the video and say: Get in there! There is a winter season – that is the only thing that stands at the door, not a choice, but a winter season that will exist – and we all have our responsibility for that. In short, to focus the budget on the impact of the budget: I would like to thank Mrs. Dr.in Gschiel and her team at the Parliamentary Directorate who have done great work. We now have a review framework, a kind of compass, with which we can allocate our budgets to the 17 fields of the 2030 Agenda. I think that's a big deal. We can estimate, we can see: Where is the need for action? I would like to invite everyone to participate in this year's work together this year within the framework of the SDGs and that everyone is making their contribution. Let's work together on it! People need security now, they need confidence, clarity. Even here, I have to say honestly, there may already be some need for improvement in the communication of the Minister for Health, but we will also be able to do so if everyone helps. On Sunday, Johannes will have name day – congratulations – but there will be no choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e14920	Next speaker: Mr Nico Marchetti. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e14944	Madam President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Estimated Minister of Finance! I do not know how it is for the Members of the Government, but such a budget week is not a particularly big issue for us. You go through chapters for chapters, euro for euro, but the criticism is actually the same everywhere: From the paper roll in the Federal Chancellery to the stamp of Magnus Brunner, everything is actually a scandal to reject everything completely and at all the last. – I am sorry that we have lost the feeling of seeing things differently. Because we are now at the beginning of the budget week, I have brought along some ideas about how we could make this budget week a little more pleasant here in the House. The first idea is a little self-critical: The opposition always says that if we constantly thank our government members for the preparation of the budget, it feels like chatting in the plane after landing. – Fair point! We can make a contribution to this. The second idea: I think we could commit ourselves to the fact that it is good to spend money on good things, even if it does not spend its own party. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] My favorite example: We spend as much money on women and violence prevention as we have never before. There you could just say: That's a good thing! In the field of scientific research, we also spend a batch of money. There you could say – perhaps up to the FPÖ – that: Great, we like that and we support it! – That would be just such an idea. The last point: We might be able to save ourselves a few superlatives here and there. In my opinion, the budget is not a world downfall, nor is it a new big bang. It is simply what democracy is: a compromise, a balance of interests. As boring as that sounds and as few clicks it brings on social media, it's actually what I think the population wants. I think it will not be evil for us if not a Cretan politician looks out of the TV, but someone who explains serious and perhaps very boring and works things out. I don't think that's a bad style. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] What's new about this budget? – We set sails for the greening of the tax system, and we set in motion a level plan that leads us – yes: moderate – to the goals we have set ourselves. We sharpen tax where it is necessary to remain competitive. These are two points to which I would like to say: That is why I still believe that turquoise green is ideologically the best constellation to answer these major future issues, because we are just able to bring together the economic aspect and the ecological aspect. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The climate ticket is also a matter from which we can say across all ideological boundaries, I think, unisono that we like it. As I said, I would like us to see things a little more differentiated during this budget week, to argue in a serious way and not just to use the same reflections. I think the latter is boring for us and also for the spectators, and it would be good for us to do things serious in an exciting time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e15007	Next speaker: Mr Klaus Lindinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e15029	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Upswing, stability and sustainability – these are the three priorities under which this 2022 budget stands. Personally, I am very pleased that all five experts have issued a good witness to this hearing budget, even though some small intensifications have stimulated, which of course are also brought in accordingly by our side. Austria – and this also shows this budget – has so far been good and better than many other countries through this crisis, which shows many international studies. The focus was on securing jobs, but above all on attracting and ecologizing through a wide range of investments. Especially in economically and healthly difficult times, it is necessary to invest and also to make debt so that we can get through the crisis well. The current growth phase also shows that we are accompanying the upturn accordingly. If I have the concept of sustainability in mind, I believe that this means sustainable in the sense of the next generations. Finally, it is especially necessary to shape the budget for the next generations in such a way that the debt backpack does not become too large and that we reduce the debt ratio back to 70 percent of GDP by 2025. This also shows this financial framework. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is very gratifying that in addition to a truly excellent budget, an eco-social tax reform with a total volume of 18 billion euros can be depicted! This eco-social tax reform is particularly important for the relief of less-income groups – Mr Koza has already shown it in the past. I can only mention the reduction in the second and third levels of wage taxation, but above all the increase in the family bonus, which helps to weaken income and, above all, the families. Responsibility in the field of climate policy is also of great concern to us personally. In addition to CO2 pricing, it is therefore gratifying to focus on the regional bonus for rural areas in particular and to highlight the excellent adoption of the climate ticket for public transport. A last priority and a major concern of mine is the production of regional food. Our farmers cover the table three times a day for all of us in Austria. If there are currently difficulties in agriculture in some areas – be it the price situation because the products produced do not have the necessary price or trade with actions on prices – then it is important that we better support the production of regional food. We can only do this by means of the designation of origin. Thank you, Minister Mückstein, for being able to implement the first regulation accordingly. My request, in the sense of all farmers, and especially all consumers, is to implement the second and third regulations, which are so necessary, this year so that we can finally have the designation of origin on the table so that the Austrians, when they reach a product, know what is contained in it. Summa summarum is really excellent in this budget, and I can thank the entire Federal Government and, above all, the Minister for Finance. Stability and sustainability are really priorities that are set there.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e15080	Klubobmann Sebastian Kurz is now reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e15104	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government, but above all, ladies and gentlemen! After an economically very hard year 2020, we now have the situation that our economy is growing by around 4 percent this year and, more importantly: There are more workers in the labour market than before the crisis. This is the most important news, because I think it is a country, a society, for all of us it is relevant that people have work that they can provide for their families. And because we are discussing the budget today, I think it is also appropriate to mention that this is the basis for financing everything in our country – from the social state to the education system, from the pension to the health system. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] Therefore, allow me to thank at the beginning of this debate on the budget especially all those who contribute to Austria being an economically strong country, that people have jobs in our country, and that we can also finance all that is our country – the social system, the education system, our pensions and much more. First of all, I would like to thank the entrepreneurs who create jobs, second, all the workers who make their contributions every day – especially because we are discussing the budget: a great deal of thanks to all taxpayers who in our country ensure that Austria is set up as it is. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we must be so honest that we should all be aware that there are some global trends that will also have more and more impact on our little Austria. Europe loses economic power in international comparison. Before the financial crisis 15 years ago, nearly half of the 100 most valuable companies in the world were still in Europe. In the meantime, it's only half as many. This year, for example, growth in Asia, in China, is more than 8 percent, in the U.S. at 6 percent, significantly above that within the European Union. The supply chains are under pressure worldwide, and this also has an impact on businesses and important employers in our country. And inflation, perhaps for a lot of bulky terms, leads to a direct inflation in our country, especially as regards goods of daily need. I think we all agree that, as a small country with 9 million inhabitants, we cannot stop or influence these global trends. What is possible, however, is to try to respond to it with a budget and a tax reform as best as possible and to create framework conditions that Austria can continue to develop well in the future, and I would like to thank all those who have negotiated and designed this tax reform, above all the Minister of Finance, for this tax reform makes it possible to relieve people of small and medium-sized incomes in Austria. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens]] The wage and income tax decreases from 35 to 30, from 42 to 40 percent, the social security contributions are reduced, and the big profits of this reform are people with small and medium-sized incomes. That is good, ladies and gentlemen, because they are the backbone of our country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We have launched a trend change in our tax system, even in the coalition with the Freedom Party, with the introduction of the family bonus. 1 500 euros per child were a first change in the direction that families who contribute twice – so go to work and raise children – are taxed off. That is 100 euros per month, which is a relatively high amount for small and medium-sized incomes in particular. This family bonus is raised from 1,500 to 2,000 euros. I hope that this is not the last increase, but it is another correct step towards the appreciation of families, because they are the ones who go to work, raise children and thus secure the future of our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, even though it has been again criticized by some today, there is also a clear commitment: Yes, we are introducing a CO2 price for this tax reform. I think it is a useful and right step to further develop our tax system in the medium term in the direction that we constantly relieve the labour factor and, of course, receive more and more a price at the same time. This is a transformation that you should not carry out with the wood hammer. This is a transformation that takes time, but it is an important transformation to bring competitiveness and sustainability to a cap – and therefore also a clear commitment to this introduction of CO2 pricing in the sense of an ecological and economic balance in our country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, thank you once again to all those who have negotiated this reform, but also to all those who hopefully support the budget and tax reform also with their voice here in the House and thus get on the way! Allow But you also want me to lose a few words on the current corona situation in addition to this issue. In the debate over the last few days, especially in the social media, I have gained a little impression that some people feel that the vaccination would not work, that despite vaccination, we would not be sure that the vaccination was worthless, because you could be infected without vaccination, and with vaccination as well. [[Abg. Worm: That's exactly how it is!]] I believe that this is a subject that should not be dealt with emotionally or as a matter of faith, but rather that it is a subject on which we should look at the facts very carefully. [[Abg. Worm: Rational!]] I dared to say in the summer that we will be dealing with a pandemic of the unvaccinated. [[Abg. Worm: That was a community!]] [[Abg. Fireplaces: The pandemic is over!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I have said that everyone who is not vaccinated will become infected sooner or later: if not in summer, then in autumn, if not in autumn, then in winter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Regardless of whether one is a vaccine opponent or a vaccine advocate, whether one is skeptical of the vaccination or not, a fact should make us all aware: When we look at the last week, we see that the seven-day incidence – that is, a very relevant measurement – was almost 350. [[Abg. Kassinger: That was a house number...!]] That is, all those who say they can be infected despite vaccination, there are vaccinations, are perfectly right. [[Abg. Worm: Bravo!]] However, the seven-day incidence of the unvaccinated was more than four times higher, with more than 1,700. [[Abg. Kassinger: They are tested a bit more!]] [[Call the FPÖ:... more tested...! If I test more, I have a four times higher incidence...!]] The truth, then, is not only that the vaccination works, but the truth is that everyone who is not vaccinated has a high risk of infecting himself. I almost want to say that he will be guaranteed to infect himself sooner or later. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] In this sense, despite all the emotionality on this subject, my request to all those who have not yet been vaccinated: Let it go through your head again! [[Abg. Deimek:... 40 percent...! Ask the head of state Stelzer how it really looks...! Ask the head of state Stelzer...!]] Look You're looking at these numbers! Consider your very personal risk and be aware that by vaccination you not only protect yourself, but also contribute to slowing down the infection in total. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e15305	Next item is the report by Mr Kai Jan Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e15330	Mr Kurz, you once again claimed that in the past you had lowered taxes in that country. [[Call the ÖVP:Klubobmann Kurz!]] I always say, Numbers don't lie! We only look at the figures of the government, the government figures; these say that the taxes and taxes in Austria were higher every year when you were Federal Chancellors than in the two years before you became Federal Chancellors. The amount of taxes and taxes in Austria is still measured by the so-called tax and tax rate, which was 42.4 percent in 2016 and 42.5 percent in 2017. Then you became Federal Chancellor of a first turquoise-blue federal government. What happened to the tax and tax rate? - She's gone up. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That is, taxes in this country increased to 42.8 percent at the time you became Federal Chancellor. In the following year they rose to 43.1 percent. Where will they be this year? – 43.1 percent. Over the course of the budget framework, taxes and taxes in Austria will be higher each year than they were under Faymann/Mitterlehner and under Kern/Mitterlehner. – These are the figures of the Federal Government, and I can tell you: Numbers don't lie! If you say you lower taxes, raise them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But when we look at the tax structure, we see: Yes, in fact, there are groups in Austria that will pay less taxes than before, and other groups that will pay more taxes than before. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Who pays less? – I only take the figures presented by the Minister for Finance. – Group taxes, corporate tax, rise by 4 percent compared to 2019. That is, the companies will pay 4 percent more taxes than before the crisis in 2025 – by 4 percent! What will workers pay? – You will pay between 23 and 29 percent more taxes than before the crisis. That means what They led them in the way when you were still federal chancellors: Companies pay less taxes, workers pay more taxes. These are the figures that the Federal Government has presented to the House, and I say: Numbers don't lie, but they're just saying that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] By the way, I would like to see the opportunity to say something about your personal dealings with the crisis of the ÖVP and the whole affair there. [[Abg. Diesner-Wais: Do we have an affair?]] First of all, I have often said here that you are walking on the tracks of Karl-Heinz Grasser, because you are always only correcting your innocence, just as I remember that of a certain Karl-Heinz Grasser. In the meantime you also employ the same expert, who “relieves” you well under quotation marks. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I don't know if that's for your benefit. The expert, who falsely used the university logo for this opinion, is the same person who has already tried to acquit Karl-Heinz Grasser from every debt. [[Call to the ÖVP: My God!]] The presumption of innocence also applies, of course, to Karl-Heinz Grasser, even though he has already been sentenced in the first instance. You are not yet, that is true, the presumption of innocence in the criminal sense also applies to you. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But: I would remind you of what you said here a little over two years ago. There came the Ibiza video, and we all remember how Strache and Gudenus have theorized about corruption, how they meant, how they collect donations at the Court of Auditors, how they can give their donors public orders by over price, and how they have shown that they have a – I say – peculiar relationship to the term media freedom – in theory! They later demanded the resignation of the two. You never spoke of innocence, you said, for political-moral reasons, the two must resign. - I agree. But why not put on the same moral latte that you have made on Strache and Gudenus and also on Kickl yourself, to Mr Blümel and to Mr Nehammer's Minister of the Interior? [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Sustained by SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] In fact, if you were to apply the same principles to yourself after the Ibiza video to the FPÖ, to Strache, Gudenus and Kickl, you would not sit here, nor would Mr Blümel and Mr Nehammer. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] They really shouldn't measure with the pharmacist's weight and speak of the presumption of innocence in themselves. This does not allow anyone to do so, and you do not do a good job yourself. Thank you. [[Complaints with SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Call the FPÖ: Where he's right, he's right, the crane!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e15452	Mr Andreas Ottenschlagrist. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e15476	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Values Advisors! Mr Krainer, we actually have a debate on the budget now, but you have once again unpacked the index finger, always point to other, moralizing, talking about innocence, and at the same time you are putting it back into the ridiculous. [[Call to the FPÖ: It wasn't wrong, it was just right!]] I do not think that these pre-conceptions, which you repeatedly make, are worthy of the House at all. Then tell me, Mr Klubobmann, that he should not publicly defend himself. – I think that is moral, Mr Krainer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But now on the matter: My previous speaker, Mr Krainer – for the spectators: he is the SPÖ's financial spokesman – says that the tax and tax rate has increased briefly in recent years under the Chancellorship of German Chancellors. – Now I address you directly as a financial speaker: You probably also know that a trend turnaround – which we introduce in this area – is always slowing down. That is, if you take decisions on this matter in 2017 or 2018, then of course the decisions will only be taken in the following years. This has been said to you – especially for the spectators – now. What you're not saying is that we've done a lot for the people involved in small and medium-sized incomes. I would like to repeat it here again: The purchasing power is strengthened by reducing taxes – the tax rate on wages and income tax has been reduced. Of course, the children's bonus relieves especially affected families. This is real relief for those in this country who need it. That's what it's like. They have not been achieved, but we have just done it, and that is what has been said here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I think that we should make a real difference about it, in the sense of a political discourse, how we deal responsibly with the tax money. I think, particularly in this area, that the Federal Government is proving with the present budget and also with the current eco-social tax reform, that we are dealing responsibly with the tax money, that we are using the funds for those who really need it to be the backbone of Austrian society – for example, the families and the many hard-working entrepreneurs or employees in that country. We relieve them, and that's what we're talking about!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e15532	Mr Christoph Matznetter is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e15561	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen in the government and in the Members' series! I do not know what Mr Ottenschlager has proposed, but one thing is quite clear: If the tax and tax rate has already been significantly lower under Chancellor Werner Faymann, you do not need to come with time delays. Numbers don't lie! They are higher than at the time and therefore the self-indulgence was inappropriate, Mr President. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we're already on the subject: You are throwing Mr Krainer, who has given a very factual speech on this matter, seriously - - – ladies and gentlemen, you should look at the reaction of this group, which says that someone is wrongfully persecuted by law-enforced prosecutors. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] The 103 pages of house search decision, which was probably approved by court, Mr. Klubobmann Wöginger, that is not a point-based network! There are 103 pages of dense accusations, and this Parliament has rightly decided today in the immunity committee – and hopefully on Thursday in plenary – that the persecution continues. You work with propaganda here instead of taking note of the many mistakes made in the fight against pandemic, in the budget and in the finances – the figures do not lie – and at least you strive and promise to make it better and make it clean. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] There's nothing to feel about, there's no improvement, you're unchanged. I fear that the Austrian people will have to make a different decision as to the composition of classes on the government bank. I leave the Greens' co-operation today to reach a time for the poor bubblings. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e15616	No one is reporting on this. That concludes this debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We're already done with the vote croquis. If the political groups agree, we shall go into the voting process immediately. We are now coming to a series of votes which I shall make separately on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft budget accompanying law 2022 in 1154 of the Supplements. Two requests for a separate vote by Mr Kai Jan Krainer as well as a request for a separate vote by Members of the European Parliament. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the request for separate vote and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall vote separately on Articles 1 to 3 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for these parts of the bill to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on Rule 4 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote separately on Rule 6 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on Rule 7 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this in order to have a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall vote separately on Rule 8 as amended by the Committee's report. Who's calling for it? – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on Rule 9 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members who are voting in favour of it to be a sign. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall vote on Articles 10 and 11 as amended by the Committee's report. Who's calling for it? – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives the consent in the third reading, I am looking for a sign. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. In this way we shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pamela Rendi-Wagner, colleagues on 'preventing social crisis, combating inflation'. Those who support the motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft federal law amending the SME Promotion Act, the Guarantee Act and the ABBAG Act, including title and receipt in 1155 of the Supplements. If you vote in favour of this bill, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall therefore come to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law was also adopted by a majority in third reading. [[12:51:04]] 3rd. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1035 and 1035, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Law establishing the Federal Financial Framework Act 2022 to 2025 (Federal Financial Framework Act 2022 to 2025 – BFRG 2022-2025) (1156 d.a.) 4. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1034, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2022 (Federal Finance Act 2022 – BFG 2022) together with investments (1157 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e15777	We now come to Agenda items 3 and 4, on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. UG 01: Presidential Chancellery UG 02: Federal legislation UG 03: Constitutional Court UG 04: Administrative Court UG 05: Public Prosecutor's Office UG 06: Court of Auditors UG 10: Federal Chancellery UG 17: Public service and sport
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e15844	I welcome the members of the Federal Government, the President of the Court of Auditors, the members of the public prosecutor's office, Mr Volksanwälte. – Welcome! Mr Christian Drobits is the first to speak. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e15868	Madam President. Federal Chancellor at the head of the Federal Government! High house! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Expenditure on the budget in the Federal Chancellery, which is earnings and financing budget, is basically EUR 480 million. For 2022, Federal Chancellor, there is an increase of 22.7 million euros. This 5-percent increase corresponds to about half of the budget for care training, which has been paid at EUR 50 million. If you let this go through your head like that, you have to say, that's a huge shabby. There is currently a situation in which there is a care emergency in which the care and health care staff are in principle burned out and poorly paid in the Some of them are ill after the Coronabonus because they are not paid him, and in which the request for a heavy work pension has been rejected and postponed. That's the one side. The other side: In turn, millions of amounts are spent on advertising, advertising and media campaigns. Mr Bundeskanzler, I personally feel as if one should be ashamed of this contrast that exists right now. In the same way, you say in a budget response: Yes, these ads are turned on because they are used for information and are basically not advertising. – Well, Mr. Federal Chancellor, the Austrian population thinks differently. She doesn't think that's just for information. She thinks that this is a media campaign, propaganda, and self-representation. As I continue, I see the budgets in which the former German chancellor Kurz with then still turquoise-blue majority, now, 2020 and 2021, with turquoise-green majority made a triple of the ad circuit – a triple! – and this advertisement has remained. Mr. Federal Chancellor, why do we have this wrong situation? Why do we have these increased numbers when it comes to ads? I'll charge you: Today, we have expanded the women's budget to 18 million euros, and 18 million euros are one third of what you spend on advertising shifts per year – around 50 million euros. This has been 4.3 million euros per month according to my figures in 2020. Please, this is propaganda policy in front of women's policy! The losers are the women. That is why I think you should really look at this advertising policy – this propaganda policy – and finally return to a policy that Austrians need. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I would also like to express my praise to the supreme institutions, the President-in-Office of the Council, the President-in-Office of the Council. He did well because he sends clear signals to the young people in his budget. I want to pass on clear signals: He has behaved well in this political confusion and Hickhack and has actually created legal certainty. Finally, from my side a thank you to all the employees of the top organs. They had to do their work in this difficult situation, even though the left hand often did not know what the right hand wanted to do. A warm thank you! – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e15923	Next speaker: Mr Wolfgang Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e15944	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! My dear members of the government! Dear members of the People's Procuratorate and Madam President of the Court of Auditors! I've now thought I'm kind of a bit in a wrong movie. There, the Burgenländer Drobits apparently speaks against the Vienna Ludwig – otherwise I can't imagine that. He speaks of the largest advertising budget and of false expenditure, and I note this all the time in Vienna! Vienna has the largest advertising budget of all public institutions. I didn't expect the SPÖ Burgenland to be so strong against the SPÖ Vienna, but it's perfectly right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fire brigades.]] That is why I can now come back to what it really is about here. It's about the budget of the top organs. This is a constitutional principle, namely that budgetary resources are spent according to the principles of effectiveness, economy and economy. If I say expedientness and efficiency, then we are on an important point on which the House is concerned. Next year, the old High House, I say, will have been newly renovated. Many investments were necessary for this, but it is the first general renovation of the House for over 100 years. Therefore, it is also necessary – because one wants to receive the house for economic reasons too – to carry out such a renovation. Sacrifice – that was what Mr Drobits asked in the Committee on Budgets – is that the German Chancellor's cabinet is now the smallest cabinet. It was the German Chancellor's core, who at the time increased the monthly expenditure of the cabinet by 50 000 euros, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we are setting an example of sparing with the Federal Chancellor's cabinet. On the other hand, we also have a necessary budget if we increase the budget for justice. Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore remain in differentiation, we stick to what is necessary! As a constitutional speaker, it is still important to me that we can carry out fair procedures – including human rights – quickly, so there is also this increased budget for justice, and that we also provide the necessary support for what a legal protection officer says to the judicial system, because human rights must be respected everywhere, including in justice. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e15995	The next item is the speech by Mr Christian Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e16020	Madam President. Mr President. Estimated top organs of this Republic! Yes, we have heard a lot and, Mr Gerstl, I can give you this back: I also believe in your speech, I am in the wrong film, if you praise this budget, but actually praise it without substrate and therefore come only with federal comparisons. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] It remains quite the same for the federal institutions in this budget – not a big insurrection – everything is hardly raised, there are hardly any more staff. Let us take the Court of Auditors as follows: We know that the Court of Auditors is an audit body that shows the maladministration in the administration and can thus save tax money. So that's a good thing, it would be a lot of money back if you could expand the test skills if you could bring something on there. Of course, an expansion, an increase in competence also needs more staff. I can't see that in this budget at all, it's actually nothing. More precisely to the Court of Auditors, my colleague, Alois Kainz, will be carrying out. Nevertheless: The Court of Auditors and the President and the staff cannot do anything for it. I would like to thank the President of the Court of Auditors on behalf of our group and their staff. The same applies to the three prosecutors and their employees: a thank you for the good work of this Parliament's assistant body. It is a very good thing that, despite these non-milestones, very good work is done. Let's go to the public service. For the most part, the public service can be seen by summarizing this: Despite Corona, even in spite of intensive efforts by the corona measures of this federal government, there is no increase in personnel. This is like a red thread: with civil service, with civil servants, with public servants who are with the citizens, doing work for the citizens: zero increase, everything remains the same. If we still calculate the extra work and the fact – which has already been mentioned by Mr Greiner from SPÖ today – that the retirement wave is rolling on in the public service, then we should now take care of it. I'll meet you. This budget does not make this provision, since in the next few years we will still be falling into a pretty personal hole. So the staff will no longer be able to provide service to the citizens. But one thing is interesting with this black and green federal government: If there are staff increases, then they are recorded in the central offices, in the Federal Ministries. There are likely to be increases in staff and personnel costs. This is a very bad sign, Mr. Federal Chancellor, when you see: It must save every federal service, every public service, one says: It's not going to go out, it's not there anymore!, and then you go on in the ministries, in many ministries themselves – the Federal Chancellor's Office, the Ministry of Justice and so on and so on. I could continue the list. There you go. This is not a good sign for the citizens, for the taxpayers of this country. For those who have to pay the whole thing at the end of the day, this is certainly not a good sign. This budget is certainly not social, you can wipe it away. Eco-social sounds quite good, but these words are from our point of view, from the point of view of the Free Words, there is nothing social about them. This tax reform is in no way the big throw and is also paid by the taxpayers themselves by the cold progression – as it has already been said today – and of course it also eats up a large part of these excellent increases. So, no big throw, no big innovative tax package. We will, of course, show the next few months what is happening to the working population in this country in terms of price increases – I say only Spritpreis. I have to say: We are very, very disappointed with this tax package. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e16074	Mag.a Agnes Sirkka Prammer is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e16098	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Madam President. Mr. Volksanwälte! Unfortunately, this is a debate that will be a bit marked by many breaks of content – I will make the first one here and come to the sports budget. Indeed, last year's sport has also been greatly harassed by the crisis, and it is urgently necessary that it receive acute help. There was already support from the various funds during the crisis: There were the NPO funds for the non-profit associations, there was the sports league fund for the professional clubs. Without these many leagues, many transmissions we have been waiting for would have looked very different, because there are indeed numerous clubs that have secured survival. So it was very, very important that we have invested there. But what is still necessary is to continue thinking for the future, and here we have launched the come-back-stronger package. Many of the measures we have decided in this package are now in this budget. There is first of all the sport bonus as the most important element for broadband. The sport bonus brings people back to the clubs, and this is very, very important, because there is the environment in the clubs, in the small clubs, scattered all over the federal territory, through a lot of work by the volunteer officials, trainers from which the future Thiems, the future Billas, the future Gravenhofers, the future Alabas and how they all are called may, may, may, arise. There, in the small clubs, they start their sports career. That is why it is important to bring them back, and for this they receive support, up to 75 percent of member contributions, with a maximum amount of 90 euros. This will be replaced and that is a great support for many people, for many families. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, sports promotion priorities are also being pursued, which are equality, integration, inclusion and sustainability. These four objectives will be reflected in the entire sports promotion programme. There is the women's promotion focus, for example, starting with the gender training programme, which is already in the second pass and in which women are allowed to take a foothold in professional sports, in the professional environment, so that the proportion of women in trainers, in functionaries, in top positions is increased and well secured by experts from their own field. Next, there is the Women's League Fund, which will make a significant contribution to professionalization, because it is only the one that will secure international success, bring Austria forward and secure great achievements. It is precisely for this reason that an additional million, i.e. a total of 6 million euros, are placed in sports technology projects, because there are a lot of sports – we think about sailing, we think about athletics, sports in winter sports or sports that are not in the mouth, such as Skeleton – in which it is extremely important that the technology keeps pace, that you can invest in technology. We also provide for this in the context of sport promotion and that is also ensured. Thus, it is possible that sport can start into a positive future – both in the wide range, both for all individuals and in the top sports sector, and this is essential to bring Austria forward there as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e16156	Mr Nikolaus Scherak is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e16177	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Women Federal Ministers! President of the Court of Auditors! Dear People's Lawyers! We discuss many things together here, including sports, but also and for me, primarily the question and the budgetary equipment of the top organs in Austria. If you see Parliamentary work as a citizen, as a citizen, then in the first line you will somehow always see our Members, because we are in the foreground here. In the background, however, the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate are responsible for the fact that we can even do our work. They do this quite, very great, and that is why I would like to thank all the staff in Parliament very much on this path. [[I would like to congratulate Mr Neos, Mr ÖVP, Mr FPÖ and Mr Greens, as well as those of the SPÖ.]] It is our task, as a Parliament, not only to pass laws, but above all to pass good laws, to pass laws, which then also hold before the Supreme Courts. It is the Parliament's management which, in our view, is very important here. I am also pleased to see that there is an increase in the number of areas of planning – the setting of priorities could then be discussed for a longer time. In this context, I have the same speech on the budget every time: I would like to see us in Parliament with a much better-equipped legal and legislative service and a better budget service. In particular, in connection with the corona pandemic and the many unconstitutional laws and illegal regulations, it would, I believe, be urgently appropriate for us to equip the legal and legislative service, which does excellent work, but with the resources made available to it, at least with difficulties in acting accordingly. If you look at the German Bundestag for comparison, you can see that there is also a legal and legislative service there. However, every Member of Parliament, every Member of Parliament, may go directly there and ask whether such regulations are in conformity with the law or are in conformity with the Constitution. We cannot do that in Austria, so I would like to see a self-confident Parliament that we finally get into the process and equip legal and legislative services in such a way that he can do his work even better. We have also seen within the framework of the corona pandemic how important it is that we have high courts. In particular, the Constitutional Court, but also the Administrative Court did excellent work under difficult circumstances and once again showed how important it is that they appear as a truer and as a protector of our fundamental and freedom rights in Austria. In addition to the excellent work of the Volksanwälte, it is also very important for me to stress the work of the Court of Auditors once again. The President-in-Office of the Council has taken a very unusual step in connection with party financing and has presented a legislative proposal. We as NEOS have welcomed this very much because we believe that unusual situations also need unusual steps. This debate does not continue because the coalition parties have obviously been unable to find a solution for more than a year and a half. I've said it more often: Everything, what H.-C. Slightly told about Ibiza in a slightly drunken state, it is still possible in Austria, dear citizens. This is a condition that we consider NEOS not to be portable. Staff in the Court of Auditors are also always a subject, and it is now increasing. I am convinced that this will not be enough in the long term. Although he will continue to live up to his great work, it would be appropriate that we provide him with more financial resources. I believe that we should always bear in mind that this is the most important institutions in this state and that they are irreplaceable to democracy – so we must always make the appropriate financial resources available there.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e16234	Mr Rudolf Silvan has now been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e16259	Mr President. High house! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Women Federal Ministers! President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwälte! I would like to comment on the public prosecutor's budget and I would also like to thank you once again, on behalf of the Social Democracy, for the achievements and work of the Volksanstalts quite cordially in the interests of the people. In principle – and this may now be the pleasure of the government parties – it is also not much to be put off from our side on the budget of the Volksanwälte, because it would not be the performance of the government. Due to the current situation in Austria, it is not quite clear whether the regulations adopted and which are still being adopted are not tilted by the Constitutional Court. It is to be feared that this will bring more work to the public prosecutor's office in 2020 and that many citizens will be turning to the public prosecutor's office in the same way as they did in 2020. We remember last year when a lot of people complained about the anti-constitutional regulations at the public prosecutor's office. This has caused the public prosecutors unexpected extra effort. In this respect, my question to the Volksanwälte – perhaps you can answer it in the course of this debate – would also be: What about the penalties paid unjustly by citizens in 2020 as a result of the unconstitutional regulations? It has been estimated that it is, I believe, 6 million euros that have been wrongly removed. Have these been paid back by the government? You have to imagine this: People are unjustly punished by unconstitutional regulations, and the Republic of Austria is not paying it back. This is not compatible with modern democracy, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to add that the People's Procuratorate has written a special report on Covid. The Court of Auditors has also drawn up a report on this. Mr. Federal Chancellor, there is actually everything inside that has gone wrong with your predecessor – including suggestions on how to do it right. A major point here is clear and uniform communication by the government. I am trying to please you, because it is about human life and it is also about the Austrian economy. I would also like to draw attention to our request for extension of competence to the public prosecutor's office. It cannot be that it depends on the legal form of whether the Volksanwälte in the federal states can examine hospitals or cannot verify them in certain federal states. Especially in health care facilities, such as hospitals, it is not possible to accept human rights violations. Therefore, lawyers must be allowed to review each national hospital, no matter what legal form it has. Nor is the jurisdiction of the Volksanwälte fall within the Asfinag. In this respect, there are severe cases of haircutting: For example, drivers were punished several times because they were caught once without a motorway vignette. The case was also, I think, at the “citizen’s attorney” on television. Mr Diesner-Wais, the public prosecutor of the ÖVP, will speak to some speakers after all: I am looking for all the parliamentary groups – even the Greens have sent positive signals in this regard – to support this extension of competence, as this would mean more human rights control and more transparency in the public service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e16307	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich. Please, honourable Member. Sorry, Niki, you've been in it before, but I hope it won't be a leg break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e16331	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated ministers! President of the Court of Auditors! People's lawyers! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Poštovane slušateljice i slušatelji! Dragi pripadniki naših narodnih group! I'm allowed to accept how you are to the chapters of this budget relating to the ethnic groups. The Austrian ethnic groups are an important part of the identity of our country. There are six recognized autochthonic groups in Austria: the Burgenian Croatians, the Carinthian Slovenians, the Hungarians, the Czechs, the Slovaks, the Roma and Sinti. They have lived for centuries together with the German-speaking majority population in this country, in this territory; and this diversity is the uniqueness of these cultures and languages. Like no other federal state, the Burgenland is influenced by its ethnic diversity. Three of the six recognised groups, namely the Burgenian Croats, Hungary and Roma and Sinti, live in Burgenland. Burgenland had been West Hungary for 1,000 years and was the only part of the area that came to Austria after the destruction of the Danube monarchy. This my home country is celebrating its 100th anniversary this year. What we can be proud of is that in Burgenland we have a peaceful side-by-side and a peaceful co-existence between the peoples. I mean, this is already exemplary, because it is not natural in a world in which these things, in particular, often create tensions. This co-existence is an expression of living acceptance, but also of the living tolerance that is maintained together. But this is not from somewhere, but is certainly also established in centuries of history and very probably also in the activities of the ethnic groups organizations – together with politics, because we have always seen the groups as something enriching, something important. That is why we have built up a bilingual education system in the last decades, from kindergarten to high schools. The offer in popular languages is varied, from radio, TV to digital media. The doubling of the promotion of the ethnic groups, which took place last year, which is also being rewritten by the federal government this year, is very important because it is important to preserve and support the culture and languages of the ethnic groups. The above-mentioned tolerance has been expressed when in 2000 the bilingual town boards were set up in the Burgenland. The then Federal Chancellor, Wolfgang Schüssel, has said that the Öster-Reichtum is expressing itself in the diversity of the ethnic groups. We enjoy many celebrations and occasions when the ethnic groups present their culture here, and it is important that we also work to preserve it. I should like to mention the doubling of the promotion of groups, which has brought a real start, because the organisations need the money to make cultural events, to present literature and to organize various other things, especially for children and young people, so that this culture can continue to live. At the initiative of President Sobotka, Parliament is now setting up a dialogue platform, a dialogue forum, enabling the groups to actively discuss each other. Furthermore, since the previous year, there has been support in the form of financial support for a guiding medium per ethnic group, so that language and culture are preserved. It is new that an impact orientation has also been built into the budget in the context of the promotion of groups. In other words, the groups are actively being built in, their work is to be made visible and the acceptance is thus increased. I think this work is important, and I would like to thank Minister Raab for her great openness and active access to this subject and for her commitment to really doing something in this area. We can do this together. and continue to work on this wealth of Austria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e16395	The next speaker is Mr David Stögmüller. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e16419	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like Mr. Federal Chancellor! Women Ministers! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Dear People's Lawyers! On behalf of my group, I would like to begin by thanking the Parliamentary Directorate for the great cooperation so far in this legislative period, for the operation by the budget service and all the other services that exist, from registration to committee care. Thank you very much for that! [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as Members of the NEOS.]] As far as the Court of Auditors and the People's Prosecutorship are concerned, I am pleased that we have managed to reach a budget increase for the 2022 budget, because both institutions support us as parliamentarians in our control work and are therefore an important instrument for us. That is why I would also like to thank the President and the People's Lawyers for their work in advance. The Covid Pandemic not only demands us as citizens and also as parliamentarians, but also the institutions, which, with their control function and examination of complaints, always carry out an important task. Thus, the public prosecutorship has to deal with a variety of complaints which have a direct link to the measures relating to the Covid Pandemic. The public prosecutor's efforts to deal with these complaints have been prepared in a separate Covid report. It should show us clearly where there is a need for action to improve the situation of those concerned. Since the preservation of fundamental and human rights has a high priority in such tense times as today, we are pleased that the People's Procuratorate has more and more taken on a proactive role in the preservation of these rights, such as through the cooperation in the development of visitor schemes in old and nursing homes. Such a proactive role, especially in the protection and protection of human rights, is an important concern for us. For this reason, we have also worked in the Committee on Budgets to strengthen the involvement of organised civil society. The networking and cooperation of all parties is an important foundation for ensuring our human rights. The announcement of the Public Prosecutor's Office with a view to even greater cooperation with international organisations, as stated in the impact targets on the budget, of course also plays an important role in this. As we know, however, since the last UPR report, The United Nations also has several criticisms on the table, which we look at very critically and which we also need to reflect on. For the Court of Auditors, it was important that it be finally withdrawn independently of the reserves. We also noticed this, which is a very important point. In total, there is now more than EUR 1 million to be able to continue the operation of the Court of Auditors well. The fact that the President of the European Parliament is laying the strict standard of economic efficiency, economy and prudence not only in their examinations, but also in their own home is quite clear and to be welcomed. I would like to take an example of the graphic and numerical preparation of the reports. I I would also like to thank you in the Committee. These are made in-house, which is certainly the most cost-effective variant, and the quality, as you can see – and this is important – is by no means suffering from it. Even critical voices must admit that the preparation of the reports in recent years under President Kraker has become clearly more meaningful and vivid. A great praise not only to you, but also to your entire team that this positive change has come about. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What I particularly like about this is that the reports not only become clearer and more meaningful for our Members and our control work in the Court of Auditors, but also for the citizens, because the finger is clearly laid in the right wounds. This will enable you to pursue your goal of being an engine for the elimination of mismanagement in the state sector more effectively and better. It will be up to us to continue to work out the Court of Auditors' recommendations gradually and thus to show the citizens that careful and economical handling of their tax money is not only the goal, but also our all duty – a task that we try to fulfil at the best possible level every day, and we will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e16486	This is what Mr Alois Kainz has to say. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e16521	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! Estimated government members! Dear People's Lawyers! High house! Fathers. Each one of us knows the saying: Trust is good, control is better, and the Court of Auditors is doing exactly what is so important in our state. The Court of Auditors is responsible for approximately 6 000 institutions. It examines the entire state economy: These are public bodies, institutions, funds and enterprises in which the state is involved with at least 50 percent. The corona policy of the Federal Government has once again shown us the importance of the Court of Auditors as an independent control body in our state. Already in the previous year, but also this year, the Court's tasks have been significantly expanded by comprehensive examinations of the corona measures. For example, in his more than 200-page report, the Court of Auditors recently criticised the corona policy of the Federal Government and of countries, calling it chaotic, unclear and disputed that different data and regulations have greatly weakened confidence in policy and willingness to comply with the measures. However, the additional audits of the Court of Auditors also require more budgets. The draft budget for 2022 provides for disbursements of 37.4 million euros, which is an increase of 2.4 percent compared to the previous year. For the year 2022, 323 planning posts are foreseen in the staff plan. In fact, there is 1. ==References====External links== The actual full employment equivalent of 290 will not be reachable this year. The budget continues to make a clear difference between the number of full-time workers of 284 and the number of planned posts in the 323 staff plan, because it is simply not enough for the available budget resources. By increasing the staffing effort to the extent of 2.4 percent is able to make a slight increase of two full-time workers possible. Given the excellent performance of the Court of Auditors in its audits, I would have liked to see a corresponding increase in the budget, which ensures that all the planning posts could be realized. The Court of Auditors will also have to deal with additional tasks in 2022, in particular with the examination of the Covid-19 measures. So more staff would have been a huge relief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e16563	Mr Hermann Gahr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e16588	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We have a fair, sustainable and forward-looking budget, and we will also decide. After the difficult budgets 2020 and 2021, our Federal Minister succeeded in presenting a future budget. There are targeted incentives, accents, but also savings and targeted investments in the future. We invest in the environment and climate, we invest in work and business, but we also invest in family and social things. At the heart of this budget is the eco-social tax reform, which relieves people. There is a large tax relief, and also the family bonus is increased. Climate change is a key challenge for the present and the future. This will be countered by efficient CO2 pricing and climate-friendly investments. Overall, I believe, it is about strengthening the economic location that we can also afford the social interests in this state in the future and, on the other hand, reducing the debt ratio. I should now like to refer to the Court of Auditors' budget. The Court of Auditors as the control body of Parliament has done a lot of work in recent years, and it has repeatedly shown things up to date. It is therefore gratifying that we can raise the Court of Auditors' budget from EUR 36.5 million in 2021 to EUR 37.5 million for 2022, and there are still deposits of EUR 1.4 million. The aim is – and this was clearly stated in the Committee's deliberations – to increase the budget for the Court of Auditors to EUR 40 million in the next few years so that it can fulfil its mandate. With this budget, the Court of Auditors may carry out its control and advisory activities. The staff plan is implemented to 87.7 percent, which are 323 planning posts that are financed. It is clear, of course, that we will need more staff in the future and there, and that staff will also be increased in the future, because the government programme includes the intention and the will to increase the competence of the Court of Auditors. A key point is digitization. I believe that the Court of Auditors too is faced with new challenges. We can use the budget to boost digitisation in the Court of Auditors and thus improve the quality of the reports. In this sense, thanks to the Court of Auditors for its work, but also to our Minister of State for this sustainable and forward-looking budget! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e16636	Next speaker is Henrike Brandstötter. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e16660	Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! President of the Court of Auditors! Dear People's Lawyers! Ladies and gentlemen. But above all: Dear citizens at home! There is good joke, there is bad joke, and then there is also the media policy of our federal government. Thanks to the well-known chats, we also know what socially adequate behavior is: manipulating surveys, garnishing with ads and embroidering the whole with a lot of tax money. The effects of this all-out advertising policy are dramatic: Only 3 percent of Austrians believe that there is no way to buy favourable reporting. In return, 25 percent of people in our country now feel that they can buy any coverage in private media and that journalists then write whatever they want. This loss of trust in the classical media is dramatic: People withdraw into their echo chambers, their sources of information are then any telegram groups, they will be victims of targeted disinformation campaigns and fakenews. Who has now thought that this media policy with the new German Chancellor Alexander Schallenberg will stop, unfortunately, it is wrong. On the contrary: The back-turned media policy is also continued by the new Federal Chancellor. On my question in the Budget Committee on the urgent need for a new press release, he said that the current system is very practical and that the Trimble formula is also formidable. What is the Trim formula?, maybe now one or the other is wondering. – Wolfgang Trimmel was head of the Federal Press Service under Chancellor Werner Faymann and in this function has drawn up a weighting for advertisements appropriate to political requirements. This formula was actually nothing but a mix of reach, so how many people you reach, and edition, so how many trees you have to fall to print as much paper as possible. This access, this Trim formula, is completely obsolete. Nobody's working on it today, except our federal government. Target groups are totally uninteresting, timing is uninteresting, the frequency of advertising, the costs, key figures such as success checks are also being sought in vain. Support for advertising can be obtained from 68 PR employees in the Federal Chancellery. 68! – This number has been mentioned by Chancellor Schallenberg in the Committee. So, as the responsible German Chancellor, Schallenberg continues this media policy, and he is also responsible for the increasing scepticism towards media in general and media promotion in particular. We're holding NEOS against that. We want a transformation of media promotion, which results in transparent and comprehensible funding criteria, which makes subscription and payment models attractive, and we want an end to the overarching advertising and advertising of public hands everywhere. [[Abg. Gödl: How in Vienna!]] As one of many necessary steps, I make the following request - - - If you can listen in a meaningful way, then you have heard: “the public hand”. [[Abg. Gödl: What about Vienna?]] It's too much everywhere. [[Abg. Fireplaces: Listen!]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[13:37]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e16789	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. Dipl.-Ing. in Olga Voglauer is reported to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e16817	Spoštovana Visoka Hiša! Mr President. Dear Federal Government! Mrs. Minister! Representatives of the Public Prosecutor's Office and Court of Auditors! We minorities are the so-called Added Value in Austria when it comes to our languages when it comes to culture when it comes to creating a new common narrative of Austrian identity. [[The speaker continued her speech in Slovenian.]] – That is what I said in German in my native language in Slovenian, and it is already something special, even as a minority member of the National Council, especially at a time when we succeeded in doubling the promotion of the ethnic groups – last year – and we already feel how much this money has been adopted by the national groups organisations over all the states in which they live and operate. This money of popular support is essential for the lives of the Austrian ethnic groups. It contributes to the culture that has already been awarded the highest in Austria, it contributes to education, and this funding makes a major contribution to the media landscape of the Austrian ethnic groups. All of this worked together. There is a great deal of thanks to the competent department in the Federal Chancellor's Office, which did great things in the past year also because of the pandemic, led with a self-understanding through this time and enabled organizations to develop this cultural diversity with the most modern ideas even during the pandemic. Why was and is this doubling of the promotion of groups so important to the organisations? – Because it is not enough to preserve groups of people in their structure. No, it is mainly about promoting the empowerment to lead these organizations also into the year 2022 and the following years. I think that we will certainly succeed with the new orientation of efficiency, because the offer of the groups of organisations is comprehensive. It ranges from kindergarten, from the care of young children to adult education, as we speak of theatre groups reaching the highest level in Austria and internationally, as we speak of languages that are actually far too little appreciated in our everyday lives. [[The speaker continued her speech in Slovenian.]] However, the real issue of impact orientation is whether our children are still actively speaking our minority languages, and we have set ourselves a common goal of focusing on these areas, particularly in the promotion of children, the promotion of languages in childcare, as well as on the promotion of groups. I am convinced that we are minorities as a business card in Austria. Let's make them lingual! Let us not be afraid of the languages of Austria and let us not be afraid of the people who show more competence in many ways! Let's make them part of our society! Especially among the peoples, we will find a lot of models, how we can succeed in integration in other areas as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e16871	Next speaker is Ing. Reinhold Einwallner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e16895	Mr President. Estimated government members! President of the Court of Auditors! Dear People's Lawyers! I too would like to address the Public Prosecutor's Office very briefly and would like to predict that the Public Prosecutor's Office is probably one of those institutions in Austria, which probably enjoy the greatest restraint and also very great confidence in the Austrian population. It is all the more important, of course, that we ensure that such an important institution is equipped with appropriate financial resources, and I can confirm what Mr Silva has already said: We have no very, very big criticisms at the public prosecutor's budget. I think it is quite clear that the work can be carried on accordingly and can be carried on well. At the same time, however, I would like to address three points that are important to me. One is to provide for the challenges of the Covid crisis. As in the overall budget, it is unfortunately also true for the detailed budgets that concrete measures that might be necessary due to the pandemic next year are not clearly illustrated, and especially the People's Procuratorate – we know this from the first years – is, of course, about Covid regulations, regarding measures a direct contact for the population, and there was also great challenges to overcome. It is therefore important that we take appropriate precautions to do so, of course. The second thing I would like to address is the Opcat Commission – you, ladies and gentlemen, this is about preventive human rights control. There is a change in the Commissions, and there will be no more own Commission for Vorarlberg in the future. This was not quite uncritical in our country because we had very good experiences with the Vorarlberg Opcat Commission. It's budgetaryly deposited, there's the budgetary means of making this out of the league – that's good and that's right. I hope that the quality, service – and we expect this – will be maintained in the country accordingly, but I am quite optimistic that this will succeed. The third point I would like to address is the future challenges. On the one hand, we support the efforts to expand the competences, the test competences of the public prosecutor's office – this will require additional budgetary resources – and the other is – and I think we have to think, too, in this direction – that it will probably also need new channels of communication for the public prosecutor's office. I am now speaking to the social media, the social networks. There is certainly one thing or another that we need to expand so that the target group is extended so that we can reach young people accordingly. If this is to be guaranteed, it is not enough to continue a budget, but we will also have to address these challenges in the future. Finally, thanks to the Volksanwälte and the staff at the Volksanwaltschaft for the excellent work! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e16933	Martina Diesner-Wais. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e16957	Mr President. Minister! President of the Court of Auditors! Dear People's Lawyers! Committee Chairperson I would like to say a few words on the budget proposal concerning public prosecutors. The public prosecutorship is the parliamentary Ombudsman for the control of public administration, and it makes it always best, very civil and, of course, at very low level, so that everyone can have access and the citizens feel well represented. The Corona pandemic, of course, has also faced great challenges to the public prosecutor's office, because personal contact, interlocutors, speech and events were sometimes not possible at all or only in a reduced form, and so the public prosecutor's office has quickly changed to online processing, but also to very many telephone contacts, which of course has benefited the citizens. This did not reduce the number of complaints at all. In 2020, there were 17,914 people who turned to the public prosecutors, which were more than 1,000 people compared to the previous year. However, I would also like to mention another point. Since 2009, the International Ombudsman Institute has been established at the Public Prosecutor's Office. There, the public prosecutors of 100 states are connected, who are supporting people, so that no injustice and no legal violations occur. Soon, the IOI will receive the legal status of an international organisation, and I would really like to congratulate it. This is of course also worth mentioning, since its seat is in Austria. - Congratulations! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We see that the role of the public prosecutors is becoming more and more and more diverse, and so in the budgets 2020 and 2021 there was an increase in staff by twelve planning posts; in 2022, in this budget, we can increase the number by two more planning points. In this way, the Parliament of the People's Procuratorate also gives the necessary handling to carry out its tasks. We see that the wide range of offers is also reflected in the budget. My previous speakers have already mentioned it: There is a budget of 13 million euros, which means an increase of 574,000 euros, i.e. 4.6 percent. I would like to thank the three people's lawyers and all their employees for the high quality of the exam and for the good work they have done in the interests of our citizens, and I would like to wish all of us to see our citizens come to their right in the future. Again: Thank you very much for your work!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e17008	Mrs Petra Steger has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e17033	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mrs. State Secretary, I must say that I am somewhat irritated that you are here today and not Kogler, the sports minister responsible for this, especially since he was already in Parliament this morning. But as I could read the paper, there seems to have been a coronafall in its nearer environment, so I'm just saying: Good thing he stayed at home! since we know that the vaccination unfortunately hardly protects God from infection, and on this path I naturally wish him all the best personally. Well, then I probably have to address my questions to you on the one hand, but on the other hand also to him via the screen and hope that he will at least find it worth answering my questions later on. Let's go to the budget! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and the Greens, I find it really amazing how you create it every year to present a budget that is exactly for a good, namely for the rounding. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, you submit a budget that does not take into account any of your current discriminatory, evidence-free coronaz force measures. Why else leave. You run out of all the help in sports? Sportligenhilfesfonds – not extended, NPO funds – not extended, sports bonus next year – are not planned. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, whether you seriously believe that all your current 2G measures or even the lockdown that is likely to come soon will have no impact in 2022. Do you seriously believe because you do not extend the sports league fund that the sportsmen, the federal leagues, will no longer have any income losses? Faith You're serious, since you don't extend the NPO support fund or let it run out of it, that the associations – associations, which, thanks to their corona actions, have now lost incredible 500 000 members, because they were no longer allowed to do any more sports and because they couldn't make some of the membership contributions – are already over the mountain? Do you seriously believe that the millions you have now awarded in the way of the sports bonus for new members do not buff up immediately if you ban sports at the same time in clubs or also in fitness centers and close it for a large part of the population? Faith You really do, or is that you, ladies and gentlemen, just no matter? Is this your form of responsible budget policy that you don't even calculate further lockdowns in the first place? Is this your form of responsible budgetary policy that you are not even able to adapt a budget in the short term? For everyone in the population, it has long been foreseeable that you will be able to return to this kind of coronaz force action in autumn – because the vaccination is not the promised game changer, although They are constantly trying to put the innocent into the shoes – for everyone it was foreseeable, except for this government apparently, because you do not take these measures into account in the budget. One thing I have to say: This budget is not marked by professionalism and seriosity, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I would like to make another suggestion: How would it be if you finally stopped these crazy measures with which you have been tormenting and ruining Austrian sport for two years? Are you not satisfied with your previous record of success? Are you not satisfied with the countless fitness centers and clubs that you have driven into the economic ruin? Are you not satisfied with the 500 000 members – out of the 2 million – who will no longer exercise sports and will therefore have major health problems? They are ruining a factor that is not only important to the economy but also relevant to the economy, health and society. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a social disaster for which the Minister of Sport and Vice-Chancellors is responsible. For this reason, it would also be his duty to ensure security at least for the associations and to extend the aid until 2022. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! If your sports minister continues to do so, he goes into history as a sports minister, who not only ruined Austrian club sport but also made a significant contribution to the disease of the population. As Felix Gottwald, who has even resigned yesterday because of your anti-moving policy, has said correctly, it seems to you that it is only about splitting, hustling and discrimination, and not about health, because otherwise you would never make or even forbid sports. It almost makes me unsuspecting how unsuspecting a Minister of Sports, but also a Minister of Health, must be in order to prevent and prohibit sports, since we know exactly how important sports are for health, for immune defence, but also for people's psyche. I think this policy, ladies and gentlemen, is absolutely irresponsible and a health scandal of the special class. You now have to do everything to establish a true culture of movement in this country. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and the Greens, finally stop this law-making and banishment! Get the necessary help! Finally stop forbidding the sport in any way! Finally, stop this health scandal before you do any damage that can no longer be done well in the long run! And above all, Mr. Sports Minister at home in front of the screen, you are finally withdrawing! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[13:55]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e17261	Both motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported, properly put in place and under negotiation. Mrs Mag. Faika El-Nagashi. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e17288	Mr President. Dear High House! I would like to talk today about who belongs to Austria. They're all here. It is also the task of integration policy to enable this to be communicated and committed to doing so. To enable participation is the task of integration policy, and to overcome social divisions is also the task of integration policy. It is such an exciting area in which people can meet and listen to each other and understand each other as much as possible. And no, that's not always non-fractional, it's not always conflict-free, growing together is a strenuous process. The integration paradox – so called the German sociologist Aladin El-Mafaalani –: The more people understand themselves as part of a society, the more they want to share and decide. This is successful integration! This does not lead to a Clash of Cultures, but is just the strenuous process of growing together in an open society. Integration does not happen through performance, no matter how often that is told. What performance? How much performance? To whom? There's no fault. We don't start from a minus, and we don't have to prove ourselves. What should it be about if children and young people born here hardly have the prospect of getting Austrian citizenship and thus finally being equal to their Austrian friends who are also born here? How can we dare to talk about performance here and point our finger at others? What it needs is an active integration policy that creates and eliminates inequalities. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. It's a kilnauer.]] Integration also does not take place through abstract promotion and demand. Perhaps the alliteration is interesting, but basically it is empty to bring the conditionality into something that belongs to daily survival for us, for those born here and elsewhere, for those with migration in the background and in the family, for those with the other religion, the other skin color, the other mother tongue. We ask for education, training and employment every day, and we also make the contribution to the successful cooperation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Active integration policy means, in particular, talking to those concerned, i.e. those affected by your actions. This is also the Afghan community. She's experiencing terrible these days. She's in constant concern for the Families and friends, especially the women who burn their diplomas and marry male relatives to protect themselves from the terrorist Taliban. The Afghan community in Austria has strong voices. You can say exactly what they need for their future here. Many of them are young, they are born here, raised here, Austria is their home. They demand to be heard and perceived as part of Austrian society. This is successful integration! The 18-year-old Maryam Rezaee fled to Vienna six years ago with her siblings and her grandmother from Afghanistan. She is now teaching with Matura, is a supertough young woman, and in the recently published book “In Our Words – Life Stories of Vienna women from all over the world” she says quite clearly: “I want to tell my story myself. To the whole Parliament and all people on the road.” “All talk about people who have to flee, but no one listens to the people who have really fled. And no one listens to a woman who tells herself why she had to flee at all and how she felt it. Only once do I want to tell my own story [...]” To hear these voices, this is also the task of active integration policy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] For this, there is the integration budget with mentoring programmes, with a package of measures to strengthen women with migration biography, with support for associations and initiatives – so that these voices can be heard so that integration can succeed.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e17362	Next speaker is Mag. Yannick Shetty. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e17386	Mr President. Dear women ministers! Dear People's Lawyers! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear spectators! Perhaps at the beginning a comment away from these sub-divisions, because Mr Obernosterer said today in the first debate on the budget: We are envied abroad because this government has brought Austria through the crisis so well! I'd like to tell you something. Like some colleagues here last week, I was at the World Climate Conference in Glasgow, where I spoke to participants and politicians from all over the world. You know what this is like: Smalltalk at the beginning, then you wonder where you are, and when you say: I am from Austria!, then the first reaction is: Ah, you are the country with this government and the corruption affair, with the house searches in the Federal Chancellery, and you have had new elections again! – You don’t hear that once, you don’t hear it twice or three times, but in every damn conversation. That's why I wanted to comment on this again, because it's annoyed me so much: You have not brought Austria through the crisis well, but you have ruined Austria's reputation in the world! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But now to the two subdivisions to which I would like to refer: UG 10 and UG 17, i.e. integration and sport. I would like to comment on a few points and perhaps start with something positive: The integration budget will be increased by almost 1.8 million euros in the coming year. This increase is entirely in line with the violence package, which benefits the fight against violence against women. We welcome this because we also need to do more for women and girls in the area of integration. We also welcome the fact that the extension of value and orientation rates is finally budgeted and implemented. That was urgently necessary. We demand this – I have been looking for our first OTS on this issue – since 2016. It has been high time that this will finally be implemented. If I look at the integration budget a little more closely, I miss the vision of the future for this important policy area, as I have in recent years. It is almost impossible to read out of the budget any concrete action, although the budget volume is considerable. The impact of the corona pandemic is still not shown in the budget after two years. In doing so, we know that the pandemic – you know this language picture of the burning glass and the problems that will be further expanded below – has further heightened the challenges in the integration policy that has already been put forward. Mrs. Federal Minister, in press conferences you always speak in beautiful headlines and placardial demands. One would think that the budget, if you are more interested in it, can provide answers to what you really want. Unfortunately, that is not the case. What are your concrete solutions? What are your solutions for increasing radicalisation trends in certain environments? What are your solutions to the fact that we still have a particularly low rate of vaccination in some immigrant communities? What are your solutions to the fact that every year so many children with migration backgrounds are being robbed of the opportunities in the education system? What are your solutions to the fact that tens of thousands of children still grow up in school without teaching ethics? What are your solutions to the fact that we still do not have an immigration law in Austria and that the best minds cannot come to Austria if they wanted to? What is your vision, your long-term view of a modern integration policy? In this budget, you can't see this vision. I have the feeling that you are still not interested in raising the solutions, but rather only in talking about the problems we have seen from the Islam map. Even with a look at another sub-division that we are dealing with today, at a glance at the sports budget, one must be surprised that so little progress is being made, especially since responsibility in the Sports Ministry lies with a green minister, with Sports Minister Kogler. I think it is important that there is so little progress in the area of transparency. It is noteworthy, for example, that under the budget item “Work performance by third parties” 9 million euros are simply bunked. If we ask Mr Kogler in committee what is to be understood, he says: Most of it is intended for media cooperation! – So we know what the word media cooperation is for, for ads. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Loacker.]] We will continue to look into what is behind with other parliamentary control mechanisms. These external costs go through the entire budget. That's what I'm asking myself: How would the Greens – I do not mean these Greens now, I mean the old Greens who for decades have criticized exactly that in the opposition – react if a budget had been presented with such opaque posts? Of course, the Federal Sports Promotion Act must also not be lacking, which is massively intrusive, which favours structural corruption. In this respect, Minister Kogler January 2021 announced a reform that is still not there. Mr Vice-Kanzler, you are also Minister of Sports, and I can remind you that it is two years after the start of the legislative period that you feel competent for the competence assigned to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e17471	It is now possible to speak. Ernst Gödl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e17496	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home! In the course of the 2015 wave of refugees, many people, especially many young people, came from different nations to Austria, including many from Afghanistan. A young person known to me – he is called Quasem with its first name – first came to the Traiskirchen reception camp and was then accommodated in a basic care accommodation in my community. He came here as an illiterate, but it has proved very quickly that he wants to make enormous efforts to learn writing and computing. A dedicated volunteer caretaker in my community has seen his commitment and has supported him in addition to the public offers. After a few years in Austria, he graduated from compulsory school. He started a teaching as a metal builder and is now just before completion. He has a fixed workplace in a farm in East Styria, also lives in this municipality in which he works, and was finally admitted to the local volunteer fire brigade for about four weeks ago – and that is particularly pleasing. So this is a model example of successful integration, as it actually stands in the picture book. [[Call the FPÖ:And the points?- Oh, my God!]] By this positive example you can also well understand the principle of successful integration. I am not entirely of the opinion of my colleague, Faika El-Nagashi. That's exactly where the funding and demand are: Funding in the sense that our state as a public hand provides institutions and offers to enable integration, on the other hand, but of course also quite clearly the demand, namely that someone who has found refuge here, the people who are here moved, must also make their effective, positive contribution to integration. The fact that our state is very active in this regard in the form of the ministry concerned and our wife, Federal Minister, naturally also shows our view of the budget. 105 million euros – more than ever before – are planned for integration measures in the coming year. This will increase the budget by about 1.7 million euros. Some 89 million of them are the rule budget for the ÖIF. As my previous speaker, Mr Shetty, mentioned, it is indeed an absolutely important and good measure to expand the value and orientation courses, from one day to three days, from 8 to 24 hours, divided into three important topics. The first topic concerns German learning and education: It must be made clear to the people who have moved to Austria that learning the German language is the key to integration and that there are many educational opportunities that need to be used. The second day is under the sign of the Office of Honor. Honorary office and voluntary participation in society are presented as a good opportunity for access through which contact between the host society and the rooms can be established. This too is an important aspect of integration. The third day is dedicated to the area of constitutional values and legal integration. This is also exactly what we are talking about: What's the woman's position? That's an important point. Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to thank you very much for putting a focus on girls and women, so that these false patriarchal structures, which so often prevent the integration of girls and women into our society, also clearly announce the fight. The emphasis on this is absolutely good and absolutely important. The increase in the budget in the area of integration is in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Much has happened in the area of integration. I am sure that there will be many positive examples such as Quasem, who has lived in my home community for some time – but only if we implement funding and demand in all areas, namely promotions in the sense that we as a state provide institutions and offers, but also a clear demand with all vehemence that those who are upset to us must also use integration measures themselves and must also be implemented and trained. This is what we need in order to ensure a good relationship in our society.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e17535	Ms MMag.a Dr.in Susanne Raabzu spoke on a statement. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e17560	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Mr. Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen! Oh, my God! As Minister of Chancellors, I can give a brief overview of the priorities of this budget from my areas of responsibility, including groups of people, integration and also cultural matters. We have already achieved a historic doubling of the national budget last year. This doubling of the national budget is of course continuing. The money has already arrived at the groups. It is important for the preservation of and also for the life of the peoples, to whom we are also under constitutional obligation. The focus in the budget is on youth and young people's work and also on the arrival of the peoples with their media in the new age – with a focus on digitization. Each people's group medium receives financial support from the Chancellor's Office, so that the people's work of the recognised groups can also arrive, especially in the new digital age. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Prammer.]] The second priority, the second task financed by this budget, is integration. We are very much committed to the motto of integration: promoting and demanding. Why are we doing that? – We support integration measures with this budget, but we also call for self-reliance and self-initiative, commitment to the integration process of immigrants. This is the key to successful integration: the mutualness of the integration process. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Prammer.]] It is quite clear that there is a focus on German acquisition, because without German one simply cannot participate in social life, even in the labour market and in the education system. Most of the budget is therefore invested in measures for German acquisition. The second area is the labour market and the third area – the third pillar of successful integration – is simply the emotional arrival in our country that we have values, constitutionally anchored values that are important for living together. We communicate these in our value and orientation courses. These courses are extended from one day to three days. These are mandatory integrations, which means that they are courses in which you have to participate. They are financed by the state. If one does not take part in this, then the reduction of social benefits will be achieved. I believe that these integration obligations are also a large part of a successful integration process. One of the priorities we set in the budget this year is the prevention of so-called ‘acoustic violence’, the protection of women and girls from violence in the context of integration. Violence against women and girls has many facets in Austria – has many faces. We must fight against all forms of violence, and we must also mention all the facts: There are forms of ethnic violence that come in the context of migration to Austria, such as forced ewes, like female genital mutilation, like ewes. And I don't want these forms of violence – like everyone else – in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We therefore place a very central focus here on self-determination of women and girls in the area of integration in the fight against ethnic violence. It was only last week that I was allowed to open a new advisory office against forced marriage in Innsbruck. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the success of integration is a very central issue for social cohesion, for social cohesion. We will look everywhere where this cohesion is at risk. This is also integration work: that we look where parallel structures are created, where segregation is created and where people were shooting. Therefore, a focus is also placed on the fight against parallel societies and the fight against political Islam – wherever our values are trodden with feet and where the breeding ground for extremism and Islamism is created. Therefore, the fight against all these forms of extremism is a priority which is also reflected in this budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will also continue the work of the Documentation Centre for Political Islam, which has now established itself as an independent research institution. We will, of course, also implement the novels of the Islam Law, which has been decided here. That is why we want to control, for example, the ban on foreign financing, which is contained in the Islam Law, even more comprehensively. All of this will be ensured by increasing the budget of the Cultuum so that we can fully promote integration, see and support the positive examples of successful integration and, on the other hand, continue the fight against parallel societies and extremism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e17638	Next speaker is Mrs Mag.a Karin Greiner. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e17662	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President-in-Office of the Council, you can look forward to more than EUR 900 000 in the budget for the coming year. Let us look at the current and future staff situation in the Court of Auditors together! You have had a lot to do with Covid-19 tests for a few months, the examination of the hardness fund has been completed. That was a very valuable test. Vaccine procurement is under review and we are looking forward to the results. You see, these are current topics that require comprehensive and rapid, timely action, because we want to respond quickly to the citizens. This also concerns the review of effectiveness: How do the support measures that come from the covenant work? How do they arrive in the countries? Do they work in the municipalities? I would like to make one point in relation to the staff, namely the special checks, i.e. the request of Members for an examination. We discussed this in the Committee, and you informed us that special audits will involve 15 percent of staff resources. If you now know that many things have to be examined in connection with Covid, there are ongoing special tests, you have to ask yourself the question, even in the light of possible further testing skills: Is this staffing and budgeting going on in the future? I'm talking about party law, party financing checks. I think you've got to look very closely. This is an appeal to all colleagues to ensure that additional staff is provided. We want quick answers, we want quality in the answers. An increase – and this will hold you – will be difficult to achieve in view of the current situation. In this context, I would like to stress an effective objective which already exists, namely the quality advice of the National Council, the Land Days. This is already existing and works gratefully. New to the objectives of the action is the quick and comprehensive processing of special testing requirements, which are set by us. I would like to stress once again the aspect of the closeness of time, because it is really important for all of us. It is important to be able to take appropriate measures. What is an answer to a question that lies behind for a long time and has nothing to do with the current situation? The medium-term priorities of the Court of Auditors, I would like to emphasise, are really worthwhile: assessing the effectiveness of the financial support measures, comprehensive Covid-19 tests and, most importantly, an increased use of innovative data analysis methods. Why do I emphasize that? . Because, in many discussions, my colleagues have noted that it is difficult to really deduce measures because there is little data material that could be evaluated accordingly. That means that sufficient data, well-founded data and a modern data evaluation are of utmost importance to us. I am really looking for you, ladies and gentlemen: Take care of it! We are responsible for the budget, for the Court of Auditors' resources. I would also like to see more action and a little louder votes from the government groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e17711	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr.in Margit Kraker, is now speaking. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e17735	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated Volksanwälte! The agenda shall include the UG 06: The Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors' budget. It has already been mentioned in the debate that the Court of Auditors has a great deal to do with making available to the House audits concerning Corona. He will try to provide you with accurate and timely examinations so that you can: an overview of this high level of state resources and also of the effectiveness. In the light of the fact that the Court of Auditors is very strongly concerned about this, let me briefly address the current situation. In the previous year, when we went to the second lockdown almost exactly one year ago, we hoped that the pandemic would no longer dominate us so strongly at the end of this year, but today the challenges are similar to those of the previous year: We have high incidences, we have high hospital utilization and heavily burdened staff in the health and care sector. We have slowed down a low vaccination rate in the European comparison and the level plan for curbing spread. All these are reasons for this difficult pandemic situation, and since yesterday there is the lockdown for unvaccinated. I would like to appeal here – I think that is in the sense of everyone –: No one can fight a pandemic alone, but it is about dealing with the pandemic together, and we are all called upon to act in solidarity, to trust scientific progress and to lift the vaccination rate. Austria has enough vaccine available. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs from Greens and NEOS.]] This must be borne in mind when it comes to improving a situation that affects all of us, vaccines and non-vaccinations. It helps everyone if there are as many vaccines as possible. The protection of health is a priority, but the continued pandemic of course also affects the state in a very strong and very hard financial way. As one year ago, a budget has been decided – now for 2022 – which is characterised by strong uncertainties, characterised by economic influences and by the just continuing pandemic, in which the public hand of course has to be opposed by short-term support measures. In the medium and long term, and I am convinced of this, we will then again need the strength for structural reform measures. One point we see as the Court of Auditors, of course, is that the Corona pandemic teaches us that the interaction of public actors needs to be improved. This is about the state procedures and structures in the crisis in the state, between the competent Federal Ministries, between government and opposition. We are experiencing loss of friction, and in the crisis, quick decisions and clear responsibilities are required: Who is responsible, who decides, who implements the decisions legally and organisationally and who pays? I am convinced that we will need a clear crisis mechanism in the future and that we will be able to learn from the crisis. Of course, the confidence of citizens in reliable and correct data bases and comprehensible decision-making criteria is also important. And on all these points, the Court of Auditors is examining. We have extensive Covid-19 tests in progress, which are more than 20 tests that we have started on crisis management. We have already presented some results. We have presented to you the report “Covid-19 – Structure and scope of financial assistance”. This report provides a systematic overview of all the measures taken by the Federal Government and the Länder, about the use of resources, and an update is currently under way, because we want to give an overall view. I think that's for the general state. We have already presented the outcome of the examination of the Covid-19 crisis management fund within the framework of the federal accounts. This is about the legal classification of the fund into the federal budget, the regularity of these payments flows within the federal government. We had made recommendations on uniform accounting and on transparency in the budget. The report on the hardness fund also followed: We have expressly praised and also pointed out that we have recognised the rapid introduction of these measures with a view to the adverse economic consequences. Many reports are still running, which concerns the data management report in the framework of pandemic management. A report on short work is in the opinion procedure. We have received additional requests from you on Covid, which concerns the procurement of vaccines, the covid testing at schools. All of this we have immediately begun, as the tests are in progress. Tests on administrative cooperation, for the purchase of advisory services or for procurement activities are also underway and, of course, the examination on the aid of the Cofag and the Cofag as a whole. The fact that this test activity is extremely important results from the extent of the aid measures. We are talking about around EUR 40 billion up to now, and of course these aid measures are still subject to the loss of revenue that needs to be added. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to tell you that the Court of Auditors is also active internationally in the context of Intosai. It is true that we are joining together internationally and deal with the role of billing courts internationally in a corona pandemic. For this we organized a virtual symposium this year. And we have also financially supported 51 top accounting authorities, which have found themselves in a difficult situation – and there is an additional task for the Austrian Court of Auditors as the General Secretariat as a resolution agency. We understand ourselves, the Court of Auditors, also as the body that stands for a long-term and sustainable view of the State and therefore examines it accordingly. That is why we have also chosen our focus for the next three years. This priority is: Next Generation Austria. There are two questions: Do we leave the next generation more than debt?, and: What is the future role of the state for the next generation? These are the central challenges for the State from the point of view of the Court of Auditors: the development of state tasks in the sense of a precautionary and maintenance function, the implementation of cost-intensive reform projects, sound public finances, the modernisation of the administration in the age of digitisation and corruption prevention, and the redemption of future promises to young people in the field of education, the labour market, climate change and the financing of pensions. This means, of course, that the crisis can also, in the Court of Auditors' view, be an opportunity for long-term change, for dealing with data, for a new culture of transparency and mutual respect and, of course, for a self-confident development of public administration. The Court of Auditors budget for the year 2022 has already been mentioned. The Court of Auditors has at its disposal 37.4 million euros to carry out its extensive tasks, which is 875 000 euros more than in the federal estimate 2021. This enables us to handle important digitalization and IT security projects and also to finance two full-time jobs. Thankfully, the exchange of hardware has been financed separately this year, so that the Court of Auditors' reserve is still valid and is available for unforeseen use. The Court of Auditors is thus a good basis so that the Court of Auditors can continue its work very consistently and intensively in the coming year. The quality of our audit work, ladies and gentlemen, is based on two key pillars: the staff in the Court of Auditors, which are highly are qualified and motivated, and on a modern IT equipment. We work intensively on both aspects every day. That is why I would also like to thank the Court of Auditors for the support they give me and you. In the context of digitalization, it is about data analysis, the implementation of the Elak and the digitization of the entire test process. If there is an extension of the audit competences, within the framework of the Party Act, within the framework of the Information Freedom Act, as regards the examination of public undertakings – I would point out that in May, in the country of Lower Austria, this was already reduced to companies with 25 percent public participation, i.e. the national accounting court already has more opportunities than the Court of Auditors; since it is necessary to consider – there must also be an adjustment of the Court of Auditors budget. Clearly, additional tasks can only be dealt with with with with with with additional testing teams, and as a guide – in total for the Court of Auditors, with the extension of the test competences, depending on how far this goes – 300 planning posts. It seems important to us that accounting courts have the central task of assessing the ability and functioning of governments and administrations. This is what we are working on, because this is the prerequisite for the implementation of reforms. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e17841	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ms Mag.a Eva Blimlinger, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e17869	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Minister of State and Federal Ministers! Mrs. State Secretary! First of all, my thanks go to the public service, the top institutions – it has already been mentioned in detail – and I am pleased that you are working for the Republic in this efficient way. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Public service: It is much less budget at first glance, but this is Covid's debt. Most of this was spent on the highly successful NPO funds, as you know. If you look at the budget figures without the Covid help, you see, there's an increase of 4.5 million euros, that's 2.3 percent, so it's a good story. This is mainly paid in the public service of the Public Management course at the FH-Campus Vienna. It is to be said that there will be a great exchange in the public service for the next three or four years. The baby boomers, as I am, will retire or retire, and therefore it is necessary to train really excellent staff as we now have excellent staff in the public service. You always have to look at this in comparison with the private sector: The proportion of academics and academics and the proportion of those who have completed a technical school is much higher in the public service than in the private sector. Therefore, a large part of the budget goes to the administrative academy. We have the Austrian School of Government in the government programme, which we will continue to develop. We are working on a concept for a perspective in connection with this change in staff. A third major area is digitization. A lot has already happened in the public service. Most of the public authorities can be done online. Austria is also particularly far ahead in international comparison, for example electronic handling of a passport application or similar. There is, of course, also the need for continuous adaptation of these digitalised offers. Let me conclude by expressing my heartfelt thanks to all officials, officials, contract staff, apprentices, all those who, despite the crisis, keep this state running so well despite all possible contradictions. Here, too, I consider my plea that the officers in the services – not least in terms of Christmas – are generous in the case of rewards and premiums. The budgets give this. It would be a real concern for me to be rewarded for these benefits that it has given. By the way, of course, I am still in favour of the being renamed the Windisch-Kaserne in Richard-Wadani-Kaserne. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e17920	Ms Mag.a Andrea Mayer spoke on an opinion. - Please, Mrs. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e17944	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! President of the Court of Auditors! High house! I would like to take the opportunity to join my previous speaker and thank all the employees in the public service for their work, very warmly, in the representation of Mr Kogler. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The changes in the working world, a dynamization, in some cases fewer personnel, digitization, home office and, of course, the last 20 months of pandemic activity: What has been done in this field cannot be recognized as high enough. The state works so well because of the public service, and I hope that we, together with the trade union, will come to a good conclusion of the salary negotiations in order to give the public service a high value in this way. [[Assembly with the Greens, with representatives of the ÖVP and with the Abg. Lindner.]] In addition to salary negotiations, good human resources development is a crucial factor in ensuring that the quality of public service work is further ensured. It is about gaining the best heads of the country for the public service, to keep the knowledge that the retirements threaten to drift away in some way over the next ten years, also in the public service, that the high quality training and further development is being enhanced, and that we continue to offer this quality standard by means of measures of inclusion to ensure that all those who live here are also part of the public service. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In general, I can still say: For sport, as for art and culture, the corona aid is not shown in the regular budget. Even so, she did. The NPO fund, for example, was really the central place for sports and many other non-profit institutions to bring the diversity of non-profit life, of which there is a lot in Austria and which somehow holds our country together, well through this crisis. I can assure you that we will continue to take all necessary steps to preserve these structures in sport, culture and elsewhere. We are currently negotiating further economic aid, which is needed again due to the ongoing pandemic. These areas have our full support. To Mr Shetty and to his speech, I should like to add the following: It is not EUR 9 million for work services Third party in the sports budget, but there are 2.7 million euros, and these are also intended not for media cooperation but for the implementation of the day of sports and the Long Day of Sports. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shetty]] This is about events and cooperations in which the Federal Ministry is a partner, i.e. the 2.7 million euros for third-party works. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e18014	Next speaker is Mag. Christian Ragger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e18038	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr President-in-Office of the Council, but especially valued lawyers! In my speech, I would like to focus on the public prosecutorship when it comes to me – because today we have united all three, namely the subsequent control, the legislative and the executive, – clearly and clearly highlight which cases the public prosecutor assumes. Of the 18 000 cases received as complaints last year, over 10,000 were handled by the Volksanwälte. I would not only like to pick up certain cases, but because it is my concern and today the Chancellor is also present, I would also like to discuss what could be done in the future in a accompanying way with the public prosecutor's work. It is today the third time that I have to stand here and join the People's Procuratorate that it is still so in Carinthia today – not to mention! – that people with disabilities, physical or mental disabilities are supplied to farms, and that is because the state government is unable to implement proper budgeting and equal opportunities under a derived law. This would cost 26 million euros, bringing 1,000 people into proper care. This is not only once, but every year it has been criticized by the People's Procuratorate and called for a change. Result so far: zero. In the second block of topics, I would like to point out that we recently had an inconceivable scandalous incident in Styria, namely that EIA procedures and approval procedures in terms of nature conservation were apparently a tourist, because most of the windwheel and other EIA procedures, such as for a water supply facility, were simply turkted there. Law firms or ecology offices have written the notice for the officials themselves, and one has now reached such a level that we need to think about how far we can trust the administration at all. Large corporations influence individual procedures, which are prescribed by law, but are also regulated by law. I would very much like the public prosecutor to carry out a follow-up examination, not just in Styria. There are certainly also problems in other federal states, which are similarly stored. If it is the case that you are Decided and law can buy, then it is truly very badly ordered around this republic. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to a third area, which is also a legal guarantee. Austrian spatial planning is a cross-sectional matter relating to the federal government, countries and municipalities. Cross-border, national spatial planning would be desirable. Windwheels always trigger wide discussions, for example in the border area between Carinthia and Styria. Because there is no cross-border spatial planning, say and write 125 windwheels concentrated on one site. Everyone only takes care of their own small area. A coordinating cross-border element and a common scope of implementation and control are completely lacking in spatial planning, is not formulated by law. All the more important is that there is this ongoing control of the public prosecutor's office and that it is also legally anchored. I would like to thank the three lawyers very much for their work and hope that the misdeeds shown in the Federal Government will come to the attention that they will be abandoned and that appropriate legal provisions will be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e18086	The next speaker is Mr Alexander Melchior. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e18111	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I can speak about sport and I would like to say at the outset that, of course, sport has also faced a huge challenge. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Waller.]] - You, I don't hear you! People don't hear you, either, when you shout louder now. But you can also come here and we can share the speaker's seat. But that doesn't make any sense. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But we certainly agree, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, that the clubs and athletes had an exceptional situation, and we are certainly in agreement, and there have also been applications for the best possible support for the clubs and athletes. That is why, together, we have launched a proposal here in Parliament unanimously, the #comebackstronger proposal to support the clubs and athletes as best as possible. It was particularly gratifying that we have discussed this well in the Sports Committee and that many measures have been implemented. At this point, I would like to thank all those involved in the implementation. I have received many feedback from the clubs, from people who are volunteering. It arrived well, and in this way it could be ensured that sport is still possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We see that this is not a matter of course. The situation was such that sport was actually only more possible when you went on your own or when you did sports at home. For example, some children in the living room have learned Gabberln; that must have happened. It was nice to experience that there are sports in clubs again, sport takes place again normally. It is important that we continue to accompany this process. I am glad that we have created an instrument with the NPO Fund to support associations, to support them financially, and to equip them so that they can survive after the crisis. And they're doing that now. I am also pleased that many tournaments and championships have now taken place, and I would like to end by congratulating all those who have won prizes in such challenging times, especially in the youth sector. I was allowed to be there at some tournaments. It is beautiful to see how much the children have gone up in it and have enjoyed themselves. Let us see that we can still provide as much support in this area as possible. It definitely pays off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e18168	Mr Volksanwalt spoke on a point of view. - Please, Mr. Volksanwalt.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e18192	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated Federal Ministers! Mrs. State Secretary! President of the Court of Auditors! Estimated colleagues of the People's Procuratorate! High house! First of all, I would like to receive the thanks and the recognition you have given here from the public prosecutor's office, and, of course, I would like to pass on to the competent staff in the house. To the budget: There is a slight increase which will be mainly due to the Opcat mandate, i.e. preventive protection of human rights, and international activity. It has also been mentioned that the number of posts has been increased in the past year. However, I have to limit this to the extent that the budget cover is not yet available, but the public prosecutor's office comes with withdrawals from reserves that we still have, at least 2022 and 2023, still with them. As of 2024, the Federal Finance Legislator must already consider how this will continue to be financed. A number of recent areas of testing have also been addressed. In this context, there is a desire that distributed undertakings and companies may also be subject to an examination by the Public Prosecutor's Office. We are, of course, open to this, and we can also ensure that we can do so with the appropriate quality even without major budget increases, because we are already getting complaints about these institutions and are serving. The example of Asfinag has already been mentioned, with a good cooperation and we have already achieved a great deal of effect. It was asked whether the acquisition of the Opcat mandate for Vorarlberg could lead to a loss of quality. I can give you clear information about this: No, there will be no limitation in the quality of the Opcat mandate in Vorarlberg. The penalties in the course of Corona were also addressed – these underlying regulations were abolished by the Constitutional Court. The consequence of this is primarily country-related, and there has been a different practice: Some federal states have voluntarily paid back the penalties, some not. The claim would, of course, be a general amnesty law. Such a thing, and with that I can return the ball, only this High House can decide. If there were anonymity, unfortunately, any possibility of reprocessing due to lack of verifiability is excluded. Finally, the situation was addressed in the Styria with these – it was so called – “teared” opinions, or with the activity of the department in the office of the state government. This is a pending criminal procedure. First and foremost, the jurisdiction on the train, but vice versa: Of course, the People's Procuratorate is following every complaint. If citizens, people in this country, believe that there have been crimes in such an area in another federal country, the public prosecutorship is open to any complaint. We apply for it too. The question came as to whether one can also draw attention to a younger clientele: That, of course, is also going on. Total: The People's Procuratorate is open to people in this country. We want to bring our expertise to the administration. A public prosecutor's principle is also that the administration must also have the confidence and the opportunity to act properly, and only when this should not be given in the individual case, will we of course be available to the citizen, the citizen, to all people with advice and action. I think the budget for the next two years is a well-accredited public prosecutor. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e18251	Mrs Nurten Yılmaz is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e18275	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Women Ministers! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, There is no additional investment in care, no offensive against the care emergency, instead there is a food reduction, which only benefits the richest and the turquoise donors. There is no single cent more than ever for all day schools, afternoon care or kindergartens. Instead, the unjust family bonus is increased again. This is a pleasure for the rich large families, a part-time single parent has nothing of it. This is the Quintessence of the 2022 ecoconservative budget: Redistribution up. Some may be ecological, but social, ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing there, but really nothing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear Mrs. Raab, that would also be your job as Minister of Integration: bold policy of interest for the remote neo-Austrians and their children and grandchildren, credible commitment to the hundreds of thousands of people in the immigration country of Austria, who keep our country running, be it at the cash register in the supermarket, be it in construction, care or in hospitals. No matter whether Corona crisis or not, it is the diverse workers who are moving forward our country every day. These people deserve that there is someone in the Federal Government who works for them, instead, we always hear from you: Value Courses, Value Courses, Honor, Honor, Political Islam, Political Islam! Mrs. Minister, as Minister of Integration, you must take a party for the young people and their future, take the party for the children who come to the world every day in our country, for the children whose parents and grandparents once emigrated to Austria. These children are our children and these children finally need a representation of interest in the Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have little to say about your integration budget, at least as far as the figures are concerned. There is 1.75 million euros more money, 105 million euros in total, and more support for patriarchal links, with the emphasis on strengthening girls and women. That makes sense, of course. With the authorization you can retrieve and spend another 55.4 million euros for German courses. I also support that. There can't be enough good, low-end offers for German courses. But what I still criticize: There is still no integration committee here in Parliament, in which we are dealing seriously, all parties, with the issues of participation and integration. The integration budget is five times higher than the female budget, and we still have no integration committee. It is not possible to leave Parliament out there! Secondly, About 90 million euros continue to travel from the budget to the Austrian Integration Fund. This is and remains a black box in a double sense: The employees in the ÖIF do a good and important job, not a question; however, it is not possible that the real integration work is carried out in a transparent way and any request with reference to the right of interconnection is thrown back. This work must be done in the house, ladies and gentlemen, in the ministry itself. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e18332	Dr. Reinhold Lopatka is reported to speak. – Ladies and gentlemen, I assume that you will be able to keep the speaking time exactly and we can come to the next point at 3 p.m. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e18372	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After the polemics of my predecessor Nurten Yılmaz let us return to a subject for which Federal Minister Raab is also responsible, an important topic that has been controversial in the past, with a lot of success – I speak of our groups in Austria. Indeed, the promotion of effective protection of national minorities also focused on Hungary in the Council of Europe, where Hungary now presided over in the Committee of Ministers. Last week I was with President Doris Bures at a meeting of the Council of Europe, and there has also been a positive view of what the Federal Government has done in this area in recent years. A sensitive topic: The largest group in Europe are the Roma and Sinti, more than ten million people from Spain to Romania. We too have the Roma as one of the six recognised groups. There is a good relationship between us, on the one hand, between the groups of peoples, on the other, but also with the responsible policy in relation to the work for the ethnic groups. After more than 25 years, last year – the funding and the financial resources are of great importance – this funding has been increased from EUR 3.9 million to EUR 7.9 million. That's a huge achievement. This has also been positively recognized by the ethnic groups. The groups also try to professionalize their work. People's advisory councillors have previously worked together loosely; they have just recently done so at the club level to improve this work. Our national spokesperson Niki Berlakovich mentioned it earlier: There is now an additional support for the media, and in the future you want to be more active in the field of youth and youth work. I would like to mention that the ethnic groups, all the groups, are an enrichment for Austria. Much has happened, but you can and must never be satisfied with the stand. That is to say, it will continue to be an important task for us today and at national level in the future to support the groups as best as possible. In the same way, the respective federal states and the state governments are also required to make their contribution. It has been brought on a good relationship, among other things by a clear increase in resources. We should use this to continue this good way together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e18423	Thank you very much for the punctual landing. I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 3 and 4 of the agenda, so that the required procedure for urgent procedure can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:08]] Request for urgent procedure Deputies Dr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues on ‘No discrimination against healthy people – Yes to Plan B against Corona’ (2011/A(E))
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e18457	We arrive at urgent treatment of the self-employed application 2011/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e18617	I give the floor to Mrs Belakovich as an applicant for the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e18638	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! Dear Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! For two days now, the Federal Government has been shutting down, and you, Federal Chancellor Schallenberg, are proving healthy citizens to be gone. They are proven to block healthy citizens at home, while on the other hand they allow infectious citizens to walk around outside. They can do anything. A few meters, 100 meters of airline from here is the Wiener Christkindlmarkt, Herr Bundeskanzler, where the masses move through without any control, without a test without knowing, they are infectious or they are not. These people are allowed to go to the night gastronomy, go to the clothes store, buy themselves winter boots, buy Christmas gifts for their loved ones, they can do everything; but another part, about 30 percent of our fellow citizens, they are not allowed to do all this because they have not been vaccinated for a variety of reasons – whether because of a pre-disease or because they do not trust these vaccines, perhaps because they are afraid of the side effects of these vaccines, all these are certainly reasons to be respected. These citizens are now being detained by you, Federal Chancellor! [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] Then consider further: Maybe you can drive more people into a vaccination even faster! I mean, the fantasy's no limits at all, that's what drives wonderful flowers: Up to 1 000 euros for each vaccine should be donated, i.e. a reward for vaccination, for a syringe. Na bravo, Federal Chancellor, we have brought it far! In fact, there has never been anything like this: a protective vaccination after which you still have to wear a mask; a protective vaccination after which you can be infectious, a protective vaccination after which you can get sick, a protective vaccination after which you can also die. Mr Bundeskanzler, what is the goal you are pursuing with this lockdown for unvaccinated? What do you want now? I think, unfortunately, on Sunday, the Federal Minister for Health was unable to explain to us what he sees as an objective, despite several demands, Mr Mückstein has not actually formulated any objective. He didn't know why there's now a lockdown for inoculation. However, he went to the committee directly to the Küniglberg, into the ZIB 2 and then immediately announced the lockdown for everyone. Well, you're out the next day, you've been jumped by him on the one hand when you said that the goal was, of course, to increase the vaccination rate, but you have also said that there's not going to be a lockdown for the vaccinated. Ladies and gentlemen, what kind of government is that? - That's a booze! One says hey and one says hot. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No one knows what it's all about. With you, the Egyptian darkness really broke out, ladies and gentlemen. I don't want to go into exactly what your clubmann actor once said that there will be no vaccination in Austria, neither indirect, but please nice, ladies and gentlemen, what is 2G? What is 2G? – Indirect vaccination. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Their appearance in the “ZIB 2” yesterday, Mr. Bundeskanzler, was anything but a heroic piece. They're really driving people into despair. We have employers who already demand 2G. This is a terrible thing for workers. Many now do not know what to do. Should they be vaccinated against their conviction, or should they quit? The AMS is the next threat: If they don't accept a job that has a vaccination obligation, they'll get less AMS money. So this is a huge division that is already taking place in society, ladies and gentlemen. Instead of trying to counter this, throw another one at it. It's just like this: One has the impression that you want this division from the Austrian People's Party. [[Abg. You're splitting!]] It's not that that would be surprising. The clubman, who is now missing, Mr Wöginger, wants to split so much. That's what he's already announced: He wants to drive a split in. Now we have the gap between the population. Then you can knock on your shoulder, dear Austrian People's Party. They're on: Vaccines against unvaccinated, employees against employers, you hoist guests against waiters, you hoist trade against gastronomy, police against citizens, doctors against patients. They divide society in all areas, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stocker.]] The denunciantism, that drives happy primevals in our country, ladies and gentlemen! Neighbors show themselves to each other because the neighbor has apparently left the house in quarantine. Families are disputing. The husband shows the brother-in-law, the wife the partner. All the conflicts can now be resolved, because now Corona is, and there's all right for you to approach each other and for you to spy out and stifle, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Bundeskanzler Schallenberg, do you not really do this nervously? Do you really want it to go that way in our Republic? You know, Federal Chancellor Schallenberg, we have had something like that before, at the state security in the GDR. Even then, ladies and gentlemen, it was so that within the families the tickling was flowering. [[Call:Please.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Stop it!]] – Which means: Go, stop, Mr. Collegue of the Austrian People's Party?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Lopatka: Really!]] The Austrian People's Party is exactly that party that is constantly fueling it. This is what we had in the security of the state. At that time the so-called Spittel IM called it. In the last 22 months, you've been raising this tickling thing here. Then you have a Minister of the Interior who stands up and proclaims draconic, drastic punishments that you could get the impression that every mask-repellent is now going to jail. Look Take the videos to: In the shoe shop, unspoiled citizens are controlled to see if they have a green passport. Unspoiled citizens are controlled in this Republic when buying shoes, by clothing. On the other hand, however, we have open borders, in the Burgenland and in the Styria. How does it look, what's all coming in there? Do the asylum seekers actually all have a 2G proof? [[Call:Oida]] Do they have to have a 2G proof before they can even call “Asyl ”? You have a green-pass fetish, you order this green pass otherwise everything. Or is this only true of the unspoiled Austrians, dear People's Party? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Anyone who does not subjugate your evidence-free opinional dictatorship is called a covidiot, as a dep, as a stupid, as a Nazi, a coronal ugner. Ladies and gentlemen, with you there is only black and white: here is the science – which you defined – the People's Party, the citizens over there. And they like to do what you tell them. And then there is the publicist troubadoure of this federal government, which have been well fed with money in the last 22 months by Sebastian Kurz and your national party. After that, of course, they have to bend and of course they have to bring exactly those propaganda you want. Some have actually come so far that they believe their own propaganda and have their two-year-old children vaccinated and that they no longer trust in the house for fear. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, these are exactly the same ones that then stir up when there are private channels that may also allow alternative opinions to bring the international sizes and international scientists, who may be a slightly different opinion than those given to our federal government. It's exactly the same people who yell: Can't you ban this station? That is the concept of democracy that you have created in this country in the last 22 months, my rulings by the Austrian People's Party. Against this background, you have to say honestly: The Minister of Health then wants to separate healthy people. Health Minister Mückstein said on Sunday in the main committee that he wanted to separate people in Austria. How's that going, where does that stop? What is the next step? Do we have camps for the separated people? Are these the so-called segregation camps for healthy people, perhaps also fenced with barbed wire, so that the virus can't scratch out, ladies and gentlemen? [[Calls to the Greens.]] What is the next step, ladies and gentlemen? What is the next step? And what are you going to do to our citizens? - That's an insanity, you say it. [[Call to the Greens: This is an insanity!]] [[Call to the ÖVP:This speech, yes!]] This policy is a real madness, ladies and gentlemen. How long do you want to continue this gap? How far do you want to drive the gap in? You've done it up to the kids: The children with the Goldpickerl against the children with the blue pickerl, the children with the Goldpickerl against the children with the green pickerl, the children who have been vaccinated off label, against the unvaccinated children, the children, the young people who have been vaccinated, against those young people who do not want to be vaccinated. This is your policy that you are running from the very little to the very top, ladies and gentlemen. And you know, Everything is done under the cover: science. Now let me tell you something, ladies and gentlemen: They don't exist, science. Science is a process, there is a thesis, there is an antithesis, there is a synthesis. A thesis must be established, proved or disproved. It's a bit different with you. And if you go according to your science, just as you have defined science for 22 months, the Earth would still be a disc today, because that was scientific consensus at that time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Even the findings of Ignaz Semmelweis were never implemented. There was also a dispute in science at the time. Today no one will doubt the findings of Ignaz Semmelweis, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Lopatka: You already!]] However, we do not have to go that far back to the past, Mr Lopatka, if you are constantly yelling in between. [[Abg. Lopatka: I'm calling! You're the screamer! I'm not yelling, I'm calling!]] Where were we in February 2021? At that time the citizens were told: Let's immunize, we've got a lot of vaccine now, Astra Zeneca has been delivered, let all of you be vaccinated! Science has said: The vaccine is good, the vaccine is safe. And today, where is science today? – This vaccine is no longer vaccinated in Austria. Has science been wrong? Does science have other insights? In the summer of this year, the Porsche was among the vaccines. Science has said that. And where are we today? Today Moderna is no longer vaccinated to under 30-year-old men. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] So science, as you define science, has probably been wrong in recent times. This is exactly your problem, that you always try science, but in fact you only want to enforce your opinion politically. They then refer to purchased experts who keep promises of anything that would like to make a career in Austria. And you are not willing to recognise international findings, including international experts, real scientists and to bring their theses into your political thinking. It's not about science, it's not about health, no, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, you're about politics. This is the problem, and that is why we stand there as we stand. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because You have relied on science, just as you believe science is good for you, you have only seen one science and just put it on vaccination. And that was your big mistake. You have not seen that you might build a system on two legs, namely on one side on prevention and on the other side on medication. This second part, the medication, unfortunately you have dropped completely, which you have forgotten. For months now, various international studies have told you that you will not turn around with the vaccination. In the meantime, dozens of studies prove this. The most recent, a Harvard study, has been published in the European epidemiological journal, and there is just literally: The sole dependence on vaccination as a primary strategy for reducing Covid-19 needs to be urgently reviewed. Other pharmacological interventions must also be increased. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the case in this international study. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, it is up to you, because you have deprived the Minister of Health anyway. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] They're gonna drive him in the panic all the time. He can't make it any more. You have to make up your mind. That's exactly what you should finally do. Why are you just putting on the vaccination? Why Believe You're actually saying that you need to train the Austrians so far? They send the unvaccinated into a lockdown so they can go to this vaccination. By the way, with all that I said today: None of you mention that this vaccination may also have something like side effects. That is why the vaccine Astra Zeneca in Austria is no longer on the market and why the vaccine Moderna is no longer on the market for under 30 years old in Austria. You never say that. Science hasn't just gotten out of its fingers. You should know that. You must now finally internalize these studies, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Federal Chancellor Schallenberg, you unfortunately remind me of the fairy tale “The Emperor’s New Dresses”. They are really naked, and no one around them dares tell you that you are naked in fighting the pandemic on this path you are on. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Federal Chancellor Schallenberg talks with an employee.]] – You know, Federal Chancellor, it is actually the courtesy of listening. We are in a very difficult situation in Austria. You continue your path that led us into this disaster, you split the people you have led into this disaster, and you don't even care what's being spoken here. This is an immense act, and this also shows how little you regard Parliament. You are not interested in what is being spoken in Parliament. Thank you! The last 2 minutes the Federal Chancellor has leaned back; perhaps he will listen again! You know, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, it was the command of courtesy. [[Abg. Hörl: You and courtesy! That's a joke!]] If you're not interested, at least do that! This behavior you're showing here is really terrible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Maybe he wrote down something! He's very polite! You're not polite!]] – I do not know exactly now, Mr Lopatka, what problem you have, but unfortunately I cannot solve it for you, you have to solve it yourself – or look for a corresponding therapist. I would really ask you, Mr Bundeskanzler, and also the entire Federal Government, to ask you whether this strategy, which has now brought us here, actually leads to success. [[Abg. Loacker: What strategy?]] Now, if you do a lockdown again, hang a lockdown on it and maybe send everyone to the lockdown sometime, it won't do anything, because your predecessor has said once, Lockdowns don't do anything. That's also the way it is internationally. There are, by the way, studies that prove that the lockdowns actually didn't do anything. So the only way to do this would be to go very quickly and look for the second stand, namely the pharmacological treatment of Covid-19. That would be urgently necessary now. There are dozens of examples worldwide. This is already done in many hospitals, only in Austria and in Vienna. I'll tell you about a case that happened yesterday: An old couple – twice vaccinated but nevertheless positive – call your super hotline and ask: What happens to us now? – The two are afraid of propaganda a little, they believe they must die immediately because they sit at home and always hear: Everyone's going to die! So they call the hotline and get the information there: Nothing happens to you, and if you're bad, you'll call the rescue in two days! Do you think that this strategy will actually put you in control of the pandemic? Mr. Federal Minister Mückstein, if you're already here, think about it! Don't you think it might make sense to treat patients who are at home with symptoms and not leave them alone in their fate, hoping that in 14 days everything will be good, and if it's not good, well, then they'll stop at the hospital? – This is the wrong strategy, ladies and gentlemen, so we will not get out of the pandemic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The only strategy you're driving is - -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e18953	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e18968	The only strategy you're driving is posterity. Now we need the booster vaccination after four months, soon we need it after two months, and eventually we are in the situation where we often need booster vaccinations as tests. This is the way you are going straight ahead, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party. That's the wrong way. [[Abg. Hörl: Do you actually believe what you say?]] - Turn around! Please ask your strategy!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e19006	I ask you to refrain from any allusions to the Holocaust by words such as separation, barbed wire and other things. [[Abg. Belakovich: That was the Federal Minister Mückstein!]] I ask you to refrain from doing so, and I say quite consciously: We shouldn't play with these things. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: To the Rules of Procedure!]] On the Rules of Procedure: Mr Belakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e19060	Mr President. [[Call the FPÖ: You're not heard! Please turn on micro!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: We hear them!]] The words separate and segregation fell on Sunday in the main committee, by the Federal Minister Mückstein. I quoted her. It was the quotation of the Federal Minister who wanted to separate people. [[Call the Greens: Lie!]] These expressions did not come from me, but they were a quote.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e19117	The Federal Minister has said the word separate, but not “separation camps” and “with barbed wire”, but I would like to ask you all in all: [[Abg. Belakovich: That's the difference or what?]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] It is very important for us that we also hold a very controversial discussion such as these with the necessary respect, so I did not interrupt you before. Federal Chancellor Schallenberg is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e19155	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear members of the government! High house! Madam President, I have listened very closely to you, and I have to say one thing quite frankly: [[Abg. Belakovich: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] The comparison with the GDR and with stasi methods you have employed is unworthy of yours and it is an increase of the victims of Communism. [[Abg. Steger: Nice!]] [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Call the FPÖ: People say that!]] It's amazing that this is happening to you right now. Ladies and gentlemen! [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign again.]] Yes, the Corona situation in Austria is and remains serious, just as in a number of other European countries, which are faced with a very difficult fourth wave. The number of new infections in Austria is higher than ever. On the one hand, this is due to the particularly contagious delta variant and, on the other hand, to God’s unfortunately still too low vaccination rate, at the low number of people in this country who have been vaccinated. For me, one thing is quite clear: Our task as the Federal Government is to protect the people of Austria, and we do this together. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The incidence, i.e. the number of patients suffering from Covid-19 below 100,000 people within a week, is still rising in unvaccinated people, with an exponential increase. [[Abg. Brückl: Because they're testing!]] It is currently above 1,700. For comparison: In the case of the vaccinated, the incidence value is below 350, so it is four times less. [[Abg. Brückl: Because they don't have to test!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: They are not tested!]] [[Call at the FPÖ:Because the vaccines do not have to test!]] – All are tested, without distinction. [[Abg. Belakovich: That's wrong!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Madam Members, these figures speak for themselves and they speak a very clear language: the language of mathematics. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Further calls by Mr Belakovich, Mr Brückl and Mr Wurm.]] For months now we have been warning time and again that every unvaccinated person in this country will be infected sooner or later, and unfortunately God is true of that. [[Abg. Belakovich: The vaccinated, too, Mr. Federal Chancellor!]] At this point I can also expressly wish Klubobmann Herbert Kicklund to his family a quick recovery and a hopefully mild course of their Covid infection. We all know that the risk for unvaccinated people is much higher. [[Abg. Hauser: That's not true!]] Vaccines are up to 70 percent less likely. [[Abg. Belakovich: You should read the latest studies! Would you have listened to me!]] It is up to 95 percent less likely that they have a severe disease history. [[Abg. Martin Graf: How is Kogler?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear: The figures speak for themselves. And the unvaccinated – that is also clear – are currently the main drivers of infection in our country. [[Abg. Belakovich: No, wrong! Even drosts say that!]] [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] We must therefore take a drastic and far-reaching step together with the national leaders on Sunday. Since yesterday, an initial restriction on the unvaccinated part of the population has been applied throughout the country. [[Abg. Amesbauer: And you're proud of that?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] We have thus preferred the so-called fifth stage in the stage plan. I must say quite clearly that we have not made this decision easily. [[Abg. Belakovich: Oh, yes...!]] No one wants such serious restrictions. No one wants to limit the freedom of exit from their own four walls for about 2 million people. In view of the situation in this country, however, this step was unfortunately necessary. [[Call to the FPÖ:No one has the intention to build a wall!]] It is my goal and I am expressly in favour of doing all we can in this situation in order to bring the unvaccinated to vaccination instead of restricting the vaccinated. [[Call at the FPÖ: Force!]] This is my very clear goal in the policy we are pursuing. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] With the measure we have taken together on Sunday, we have created a uniform federal bottom edge : [[Abg. Belakovich: Who together?]] 3G applies at work, 2G is in leisure time and there are starting restrictions for the unvaccinated. [[Abg. Deimek:... how it worked!]] However, as we have repeatedly noted, it is, of course, in the hands of the federal states, and they are thus free to introduce stricter measures. [[Abg. Amesbauer: This is dangerous...!]] We are in constant contact with the national leaders in this regard. Today I spoke to Salzburg's head of state Wilfried Haslauer about the tense situation in his federal state in the early days, and I promised him that in this case – as in any other case – everything will be done and we will help and support with all our strength when it is necessary and needed in Salzburg. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] After 20 months of pandemic, we know that measures take time to develop their full effect. But I already see very strong and encouraging signals. Since the introduction of the 2G rule, the imprisonment in Austria has increased incredibly – indeed impressively. [[Abg. Steger: The willingness!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Yes, because you force people!]] In the last week alone, almost half a million doses of vaccination have been administered, which is not as much as since July. [[Abg. Loacker: There you can see what you could have done earlier!]] Currently, Austria is the country in the European Union, where most vaccines are administered. [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] This shows, I believe, that the measures are effective and that more and more people are using the offer, can be vaccinated – be it the first trick, the second trick or, most importantly, the third trick, the refresher vaccination – and thus protect themselves. We are all jointly invited to fight for this trend to continue so that it does not tear off that this push and this Rush continue to the vaccinations. At last it would be necessary to ensure that the vaccination rate in our country is increased on a sustainable basis. It's still embarrassingly low and we have to do everything together to raise it, because that's the only way out of the vicious circle we're in. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Worm: What does “damagingly low ” mean?- Oh, my God!]] Even if you don't: I believe that it is possible; I believe in the people of this country, and I believe that we can work together to finally get out of this vicious circle of waves and lockdown discussions. [[Abg. Worm: This is not a shamefully low quota, Federal Chancellor!]] I would also like to make it clear that this is sometimes called into question: We will not maintain any of the measures we have taken in the Federal Government for only one hour longer than it is absolutely necessary. [[Abg. Belakovich: After that, get away with it! Get out of here!]] We have not triggered any of these steps of light heart, but we will take them back at the moment of mild heart, in which the vaccination rate has increased and the infection has calmed down in this country. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: This is blackmail!]] What we need from politics, from the government side, is a common approach and, I say quite clearly, clarity in communication. [[Call the SPÖ:Please! Please!]] As Federal Chancellor, I will make every effort to ensure this. This morning I also had a conversation with Health Minister Mückstein about the further procedure and communication in the coming weeks. We have voted together once again. I also talked to Minister of the Interior Nehammer about this today. I also need to express a great compliment to the Minister of the Interior: Yesterday alone, 15 000 checks were carried out, more than 120 infringements were detected. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: Bravo!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] To say it very clearly: The basic restrictions are difficult, but they are not a recommendation, but they are clear, legal requirements which are also controlled, and infringements are sanctioned if necessary. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Smoking:..., Federal Chancellor, that's...! That's exactly what you said!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign again.]] One thing is also quite clear: Of course, we will continue to observe the situation very closely. Of course, it's volatile, it's moving, it's dynamic. We will also evaluate the process continuously from a health, economic and social point of view. If necessary, we will, of course, work together as a federal government in consultation with the federal states where it is necessary, but again – and that is crucial to me –: For all those people in this country who have made a contribution that have been vaccinated, who have thus protected themselves and their environment, I do not understand that we continue to restrict their freedom or in the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: What are you talking about? That is wrong in content!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We need to note that the virus will not disappear. We will have to learn to live with it and deal with it. This is possible, thanks to the vaccination. [[Abg. Belakovich: By force, yes!]] She has already saved hundreds of thousands of lives, even if you do not want to have it, she has saved hundreds of thousands of human lives. [[Abg. Belakovich: How do you get on it?]] It is the only way we can finally leave this ghost behind. States like Israel show it to us. You have vaccinated in the middle of the fourth wave, and you can already see in the graphics how the development goes almost vertically down. [[Abg. Worm: Mr. Federal Chancellor, do you have an idea of the vaccination rate in Israel? Do you know the vaccination rate in Israel?]] That's science, that's mathematics, that's facts. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I can promise you one: This federal government will continue to build its policy on facts and not on fakeevs in the future, just as it has been in the last 20 months. [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] That will continue to be the case. In this regard, I have a very great request to all in this House, but in particular to you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ: In all the differences of opinion we have, we must all recognise: This is a global social challenge, a challenge that affects every individual person in this country, not only those who are in this House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] [[Abg. Smoke: Stop splitting society!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Please stop incite people to each other!]] If at the political level one tries to profile political change, then one only causes one thing: the confusion of people, the uncertainty of people. What causes confusion and uncertainty of people? – They make it slower to take action, to reduce the speed of vaccination and to increase the situation in hospitals. That can't be in anyone's best interests! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[Abg. Smoking:... your failure in health policy, in personnel policy in the last 20, 22...!]] Therefore, my strong request and also invitation to you: Make a contribution! Let us work together to finally leave this pandemic behind us! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e19835	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e19857	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister Mückstein! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, I listened closely to you, Mr Bundeskanzler, and I also heard some abstract analyses from my point of view. I can only give you the right in one thing: The situation is indeed serious. The corona situation is serious, but even more serious is the situation of the rule of law and freedoms in this country due to the measures you and your Federal Government have taken in recent days. That's really serious. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Until a few weeks ago, there was at least a basic consensus in the fight against the corona pandemic in this House: The main objective of preventing overload of the health system and saving as many lives as possible was to avoid any dispute among all political groups. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] But you've made a 180-degree move. If you have listened carefully to your words today, you realize that you have only one goal: to increase the rate of vaccination, to cost it what it wants, and whether it be the fundamental and freedom rights of our citizens. We can't take that with our best will. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you're talking about "Fakenews" and desinformation, then allow me to put the numbers you brought here today a little relative and into the right light! Yes, we currently have over 131 000 active cases in Austria. That's very, very much. However, in Austria we also test about 20 times as much as a year ago and up to 50 times as much as other comparable states. Of course, this will also help us to find more positive cases. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Berlakovich.]] It looks different when we look at the situation in the hospitals. At present, more than 2 000 Covid patients are on normal stations. This corresponds to approximately 1.6% of the so-called active cases. When we look at the intensive care stations, we see: There are 456 patients per day. That's 0.35% of the active cases. If we remember our original premise – protection against overload of the health system and especially the needle tube intensive care stations – then we also need to look at the situation in this regard. There is an occupancy rate of 22 percent by Covid-19 patients. In fact, that's relatively much. However, throughout Austria 37 percent of all intensive medical treatment beds are currently empty, ladies and gentlemen! Where is the acute overload of our health system and intensive care stations justifying such massive interference in fundamental and freedom rights? - I don't see her. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Perhaps another detail about the addition, because Upper Austria has been the nation's beating hub in recent months: In Upper Austria, 43 percent of intensive beds are currently empty every day. The fact that there are overloads on individual departments is obviously less a problem of overall capacity than a management problem and a distribution problem, but certainly not a generalized problem due to the number of Covid diseases. [[Call the ÖVP: That's not true!]] As I said, the situation is serious, but it is not yet a reason to carry out these massive interventions in fundamental and freedom rights. It is also definitely not a reason to perform a lockdown for unvaccinated, which goes into the school classes. But what are we to expect from this federal government? – These measures are in line with a number of measures taken by the Federal Government, although it has long been clear that they have no effect on the epidemiological course at all. You really want to increase the vaccination rate? – Well, please look at the studies that prove that it is totally irrelevant in the epidemiological course, how high the vaccination rate is! Look The figures from Israel are as follows: 65 percent vaccination rate, still a strong fourth wave. That's no more than with us. What do we need 85 percent for? Even if we had 85 percent: Look for Denmark! They had 85 percent and still have a strong fourth wave. Look You may also be looking at Romania as a comparison! They have achieved their fourth wave with only 30 percent of the vaccination rate, thank you now. If you follow your logic, they should have had a permanent wave throughout the winter. No, the opposite was the case: The wave has lasted as long as in Israel and in other countries of this world. That is, a direct relation to the spread of the virus to the vaccination rate is not given, and therefore your strategy is fundamentally wrong. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, this federal government has proven itself to be not only uncritical, but also illiterate. Rather, they are committed to intimidating the people with announcement policy, with the uncertainty of people and with threats – that is, you, Mr. Federal Chancellor, as one of your first acts of office, have continued quite vehemently – intimidating people, as you yourself say, to drive them into vaccination, to make them “uncomfortable”, to restrict them to their fundamental and freedom rights, to frighten them, to divide and to insure society. This is a mistake – we urgently need another way, we need a plan B, and we have already presented it several times in recent weeks. We need a comprehensive analysis of the seroprevalence of antibodies, so that every Austrian and every Austrian knows: If she or he has a natural protection against the corona virus or not, does she or he need to protect himself in addition or not? We need targeted protection of the risk group, because nearly 20 percent of the Austrian population – these are those with severe diseases and over 65 – contribute to a large part of the severe disease and to almost 98, 99 percent of all deaths. We need to protect these persons, but we need to exempt them from the way they protect them – whether they want to be vaccinated, whether they want to wear masks, whether they want to be tested regularly. We must let people decide for themselves, and we must not force them to be treated; these are free citizens, Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We cannot treat them like cattle, nor do we want to do so – at least not our liberals. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] The third point next to the protection of risk groups and antibody testing is, of course, early treatment. The Federal Government is saying that tens of thousands of people in this country – according to the current state it is now more than 200,000 people – are “separate” in Austria. [[with fingers to indicate quotation marks]] At least one third of these are healthy, untested people who are isolated and locked in their own four walls. This is absolutely unacceptable, it also contradicts in any way the intention of the epidemic law and belongs to ended rapidly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Since this Federal Government is obviously, demonstrably and repeatedly unable to change its course, there is only one way out of this crisis: This Federal Government belongs to a choice, and therefore I submit the following request in accordance with § 55 GOG: Distrust of Dr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Government and the State Secretary [[Abg. Prince: You can do this as a pharmacist...!]] The Members who have been signed are therefore following My honourable members of the Federal Government, the people have long failed to trust you, and we are doing so too. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[15:43]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e20137	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Member Peter Wurm is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e20191	Mr President. The Federal Chancellor has made some incorrect statements, which I will now correct with an actual correction. I focus on two statements. The first statement was: All are tested, whether vaccinated or unvaccinated. – This is incorrect, Federal Chancellor, you should know that. Only unvaccinated are regularly and mandatoryly tested. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] The second incorrect statement, Mr. Bundeskanzler: You have – may I continue, Mr President? – referring to a embarrassing vaccination rate that Austria seems to have. [[Call the ÖVP: A fool!]] [[Between calls at the SPÖ and the Abg. Belakovich]] This is your statement, which you are acting as Chancellor of Austria about your own people – a shameful vaccination rate, you have literally said and in this context also used Israel as a illustrious example. I would like to point out once again, Mr Bundeskanzler – I would like to give you the figures if you do not know them –: Israel has a 2% lower vaccination rate than Austria. – Thank you, the rest will follow in my speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e20235	The latter was not an actual correction, but a political finding. I note that it has not been an actual correction within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Belakovich: Of course, what else?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] Mrs Schwarz has been spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e20299	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens, wherever! I would first like to say something about the sound that just got involved. I hope I will not join this – unless I am still emotional – but I will try to let this pandemic happen with material and technical arguments, and show where we are standing. [[Abg. Hafenecker:... the Schallenberg was really...!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] I would like to start with an appeal, since I support the Federal Chancellor: [[Abg. Smoking:... diplomatic academy completed...!]] Please, the national vaccination body has 2nd place. In November, a recommendation for the third strike was issued after six months as a protection for all over 18 and two days later reduced to four months, for example for all those who were vaccinated with Astra Zeneca. [[Abg. Hafenecker:... go to Israel!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer]] Second finding: Of course, we respect the rights of personality and the rights of freedom, unconditional and complete, but we also have a fundamental right to health. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I already consider the health: If I don't protect my counterpart, then my personal freedom ends there. [[Abg. Smoking:... international media! Why are you limiting...?]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign]] She ends up where I'm threatening someone else, and I'm staying there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] That's why my appeal is: Please take advantage of the possibility of third stitching – and if you have not been vaccinated yet, take See the low-end offers in all the federal states and go immunize! Now I come to the colleagues from the FPÖ: First, the comparison with the Stasi and with a communist dictatorship is underground. [[Call at the FPÖ:Is appropriate!]] [[Abg. Belakovich:... citizens of the GDR..., would not harm you... to talk to people!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] On the other hand, I would like to see a comparison drawn at a press conference held in the FPÖ. This was about Plan B, in which Mr Kickl, whom I would of course also like to have a good recovery, like all other patients in Austria, called for individual medical treatment for each sick person. [[Abg. Smoke: Wrong statement!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you believe, please, that doctors in Austria do not do so anyway – pay attention to people's health and to prescribe in the event of illness the medications that the individual or woman needs? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Deimek.]] It is an assumption that the medical profession is not acting in accordance with the real laws of medicine. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: They don't, people are just isolated!]] Secondly, in comparison – apart from the fact that Kickl has recommended a worm for horses and cows, which today is in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” (Oberösterreichische Nachrichten), that poisoning has already occurred in Upper Austria –: [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign]] The Federal Minister for Health has also stated at a meeting of the Health Committee that if one uses it in the concentration in which it might have an effect, it is toxic, it is toxic. If you don't believe this, you can ask the Minister of Health about it. [[Abg. Hauser: You are so misinformed, you are so misinformed! terrifying how disinformed you really are!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] What is really classy, cruel and untolerable is the comparison of the 3G rule at the workplace with a vaccination rape. I'm telling you one thing, and now I'm going to be emotional: [[Abg. Amesbauer:... psychiatrist, that belongs...!]] I have to take care of rape victims in my duties as volunteer worker in the crisis intervention, and this comparison is simply disgraceful. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] It is in order to criticise this in all clarity, the right of opposition. We do not have to approve all the measures, but I do appreciate all the political groups other than the FPÖ in this House that they have repeatedly contributed constructively to defeating this pandemic over the last few months. I very much hope that the National Vaccination Body, with regard to the recommendation concerning the vaccine for children, will make it clear that on 24 February, the Council adopted a directive on the protection of children. It is expected to be spent on November, to decide quickly and with great care, and parents will then decide with equal care and all considerations whether they will have their children vaccinated between five and eleven years of age. [[Abg. Amesbauer:... Risk...!]] [[Abg. Martin Graf: Please get the ÖVP club first...!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Are all already vaccinated in the club?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] The path of the pandemic is difficult, and science has not always agreed on how it will go, but I simply tell you: Pass Please be on your own and on your own! It's still best by being vaccinated. That's why I'm asking you: Be solid! [[Abg. Amesbauer: No, this is not solidarity!]] We are always talking about our health system in solidarity, but solidarity is not a one-way road, it is a give and take, and democracy is not only a right but also a duty. Please go immunise, protect yourself, protect your neighbor! – Thank you very much. [[Abg. Belakovich: This is not a -, so a duty, the vaccination, oh so! Say S' that right now!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e20620	Mrs Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e20644	Mr President. The previous speaker, Deputies Black of the Austrian People's Party, claimed here that Herbert Kicklhabe recommended taking an equine worm. – That's wrong. I'm actually correcting: The drug, which Herbert Kicklunter spoke of, among other things, – among many other possibilities – is used successfully in various areas of human medicine, including for the treatment of Covid-19. Bayerische Rundfunk has shown a report about this and a senior physician, Mr Werner Appelt, who spoke precisely about it. He is a senior physician at the Hospital of Barmherzige Brothers in Munich, where it is used successfully. He asked that this medicine be given to patients at home to prevent hospital stays.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e20677	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e20699	Mr President. Mr Bundeskanzler, I do not want to be too hard on you – if you might put away your mobile phone briefly; that is also a parallel to your predecessor – because I do not want to be too hard on you because you have never learned otherwise in the government either, but in a speech 15 times to use the word “jointly” and to live internally hacking in the Federal Government, that somehow does not fit together; even if you have been on television yesterday. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] There you can also pray 100 000 times of flattites à la ‘jointly’, but what has happened in the middle of this crisis in the last few days in the Federal Government is unworthy and embarrassing. You can also speak 100 times in a speech anything of fact-based therefore: If then the German Government's own advisory staff are evaded if there are people like Mr. Landesführer Haslauer who have spoken out in an improper way to science, while you are talking about facts and your own advisory staff are completely different opinions, then this, Mr. Bundeskanzler, does not fit in at the back and in the front. You can speak 100 times of fact-based. Perhaps it would also be good for you to listen a little more to science and a little less to Mrs. Köstinger – then we would not all be in this mess. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] The next colleague I have to say: It seems that something is no longer in the crisis here in this House! Mrs Belakovich is. I wish Herbert Kickl personally all the good and good improvement, but in a speech to bring some funny comparisons that Herbert Kickl actually has something like Ignaz Semmelweis or a Albert Einstein of the 21st century. It's about the 19th century. - No, he's quite, certainly not! He knows for himself that he's talking about a pot. He knows for himself. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ, as well as congratulation with representatives of Greens and NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] You have panic in front of some vaccinants of the MFG, so you tell stories that are not right in the back and in the front: of worms for horses or for cows, what we have heard today, and of some bitter substances. You know for yourselves that this is a pot. All of you know. [[Abg. Hauser: You're talking so stupid...!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Now you've started so well!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, this is the inappropriate thing in the crisis: Herbert Kickl on the one hand, who knows exactly that there is a disastrous crisis management in Austria, and Sebastian Kurz on the other hand, who told us that he was something like the Messiah who had to be pasted in the summer – he said he had mastered the pandemic – and he told us that it was a cool time for us. I say openly that both are equally bad for formerly state-bearing parties – whether ÖVP or FPÖ. This is not a way out of the crisis. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Künsberg Sarre.]] You're playing for a few thousand voters with human lives. You all know that very well. In short, this policy doesn't bring us all forward. There you can make 100 000 times a urgent request, which is simply indecent. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Künsberg Sarre.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Just one point – because this has also come from the Federal Chancellor today and Sebastian Kurz has told us the story: We've been so super out of this crisis! – The second time in a row – the second time in a row! – Austria is at the forefront of the number of new infections worldwide. In a strong country like Austria, you have to bring this together with such great people to shut down the health system. We are not Djibouti, we are Austria, and we could have managed to get out of the crisis much better, that would have been possible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But Sebastian Kurz was more important throughout the summer that the poster stand was set up, from which he laughed. A few months before he took a walk in Vorarlberg and applied, and this summer he put up posters. More important than good crisis management was to him that he shredded down from the posters. And then people like Mr. Stelzer stand up and say they're totally surprised that they didn't know what's coming up with them! The experts warned weeks ago, and the ÖVP did not do anything. The ÖVP, the ah so state-bearing party, has done nothing. – You all kept silent because the country election in Upper Austria was important to you. You all kept silent when science was insulted. This is the new People's Party: Fold your hands, gosh! That's what you've kept. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Instead of mastering the crisis, you make a marketing blowjob and forget that it is really about people's lives, about existence, about the economy and about Austria. It cannot be that crisis management in Austria always ends in disaster. Many, many other states show us that it is clearly, significantly better possible, but that is crisis management of the ÖVP brand. That's why: Get together! Serves briefly, if he is still intrigued in the background, get on the table and see that you are fighting less in the Federal Government and finally putting crisis management in the foreground!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e20842	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e20863	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in here and at home in front of the screens! Three comments in the first place: once to colleagues Kaniak, who said that because we are testing so much, we also have so many positive cases. – Mr Kaniak, please listen to Statistiker Neuwirth, who can explain exactly how this is: that this is not true, what you say, because otherwise Vorarlberg must have a 20 times lower incidence than Vienna. Vienna tests 20 times more than Vorarlberg – these days only put to the fore again. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, Peter Wurm's claim that not everyone in Austria is being tested is also wrong. Of course, every or every one in Austria is tested. I myself – twice vaccinated – have been tested six times in the last ten days, I would say. That's not a problem at all. It will be tested each and every one in that country if he or she wants to. [[Abg. Belakovich: But not mandatory!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Yes, and on the third one again to colleagues Kaniak: Mr. Kaniak, I would recommend to you, speak to the new parish doctor of nautical whales! Maybe you've seen this 24-minute video – usually I'm not very good at “Austria”, so on the newspaper “Austria” – then you know what is really happening, and you wouldn't put yourself here pretending to be no problem in our health care anyway, as if we didn't have a burden at the moment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] - That's right, that's it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I said something on a show last night. I said: That's better! – To that end, I would like to say: That's better. It is better – with more vaccinations and with them, to keep distance, to reduce contacts, to pay more attention to each other, to take figures, data and facts seriously. By the way, this does not only apply to us vaccines, which applies to all here inside, which applies to all in Austria. This is exactly the approach that applies to vaccines as well as to non-vaccinations. That's the way it works. And no, the alleged plan B that FPÖ is trying to present here again today – it is, I think, already the 27. Call, which is probably going to go down in vain anyway – is not a means to make it better, but this Plan B is nothing but a Potemkin village, even if the narrative of this plan B is constantly and repeatedly tried to open up an alternative. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Because – let's talk about the facts – what does the vaccination do? – Vaccination reduces the risk of infection. It reduces the risk of symptomatic illness. It also reduces the risk of hospital treatment and reduces the risk of landing at the intensive care centre. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] That makes the vaccination. We see this also on the basis of the data of the Ages. For example, the Ages wrote for the 9.11. of this year, 25.7 percent of people in intensive care stations in that country were vaccinated, 74.3 percent were unvaccinated. [[Abg. Belakovich:... data?]] – Mr Belakovich, this was in the documents on the main committee of Sunday, which were just about the lockdown regulation. These are the figures, data and facts of the ages. These data, figures and facts are also confirmed internationally. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] What does the alleged Plan B, which is constantly presented here as an alternative? – Plan B does not prevent any infection. He also does not prevent patients from having to go to the hospital. Plan B also does not prevent patients from having to go to the intensive care station, and Plan B, which has been presented to us once again today, does not prevent any case of Long Covid in this country. Dear Ladies and gentlemen, the only positive thing about this Plan B is that this time, in this proposal, Ivermectin was clearly forgotten as a means or at least not inside. Ladies and gentlemen, all of this is happening in the context of a dramatic and staggering situation. In Salzburg – we have already heard this today – hospitals report an overload, a triage team is being formed. [[Abg. Belakovich: 37 percent of intensive beds are free!]] Intensive and normal stations are also filled everywhere else. There is no day without reports of intensive care stations, of doctors from their ordinations, of nurses who are overwhelmed, because it simply doesn't work any more, which has to turn to people five times a day, so that patients at the intensive care station have a chance to survive at all. All of this negates the FPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] [[Call the FPÖ: Shit!]] You, ladies and gentlemen from FPÖ, don't care about the sick, you don't care about the members of the sick, and you just don't care about the employees in the hospitals, in the ordinations, in our health care system in Austria. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] As it belongs to a right-wing populist party, you don't care about numbers, data, facts. If they don't fit into the system, they'll just be negated, and then you'll just bad-talk scientists, just like your deputy clubwoman has done here today, just like you've been doing this for 22 months in a tour. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to finish with a very personal vaccination call. I said I've been tested six times in the last ten days, mostly with a PCR test. Why? – Because my daughter was infected – at the age of eleven. She brought us home the disease. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] My daughter had slight symptoms, I was with her all the time. I've had direct contact with her, because it's rather difficult for an Eleven-year-old to separate herself completely from each other. I haven't been tested positively at this time. I've been vaccinated twice. I've had the vaccination. [[Interlocutory calls from Deimek and Hauser.]] This shows that this vaccination works very, very well and works very, very well. Also all other relatives in my immediate environment who have had direct contact with my daughter and have been vaccinated are not ill. That's the effect of vaccination, you can bad talk as much as you want, that's fact! [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as Members of the NEOS.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The FPÖ is at risk of life – for that I stand – by presenting here a alleged plan B which is none. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Hauser.]] Ladies and gentlemen, don't be like the FPÖ! Go immunize, protect yourself, protect the others, be solid!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e21053	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, the word is with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e21074	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] Estimated television viewers! I'd like to give you something: If you assume that about half of the Members of the Liberal Party have been vaccinated, you are not far away. These colleagues from FPÖ have been vaccinated because they know: Vaccination does not protect 100 percent, but it reduces the risk of infection. If you're infected, you're less contagious to others when you're infected and contagious, you're less contagious. If you're infected, you have a milder disease course, and the probability of having to go to the hospital is much lower. [[Abg. Belakovich: Everything already disproved!]] That is why many liberals, the entire Vienna municipal council club of the FPÖ, have been vaccinated. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] But we must also see who has prepared the ground for the dissatisfaction with the vaccination now. We need to see what was said. Sebastian Kurz said that he saw “light at the end of the tunnel”, which was on 28 March. On August 20, 2020, the Commission adopted a Decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the conclusion of the Agreement between the The ÖVP has pasted: “Pandemia mastered”, which was in June/July of this year. ==References== Sebastian Kurz said: “The pandemic is over for all who have been vaccinated.” – We see now: That's not true. August Wöginger said on the 12.10.2021: “He” – Sebastian Kurz – “has handled the pandemic in Austria.” Of course, people are dissatisfied when they see that what has been promised to them by the supreme place does not occur. This dissatisfaction, which dates back to the promises of the ÖVP, is now building on the FPÖ-Polemik. [[Congratulation with NEOS.]] Then it is unfortunate to see that you, Mr Bundeskanzler, on the request of the FPÖ in the pitch: We have done everything right!, reply and not a trace of rupture and perhaps a hint of apologies to the citizens: that one may have awakened expectations which one could not fulfill, that perhaps in the period before the Upper Austria election one was a bit too quiet to not frighten voters, a little too little line and edge has shown, because one was afraid of the truth and of the voters. Now, as Federal Chancellor, you can always say: I am not responsible, of course the Minister of Health is responsible! – Mr. Mückstein took over the office in a relatively quiet phase of the pandemic, in a phase in which much could have been done, much had been prepared, there was not yet a high-level campaign. Already in June this year, it has been seen that the registration figures go back to the vaccinations. One should have seen there already: Ui, there are not all those who could sign up for a vaccination!, and must respond: How do we get these? – Nothing passed. The experts warned in June, in July, in August, nothing happened. I asked a parliamentary question in June: Mr. Minister, what are you doing, the vaccination applications are going back? – The answer was: I'm not responsible! – Of course, this is not an access for an official. A minister receives a manager's salary because he has manager's responsibility, and you also have to perceive it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] On behalf of the Federal Government, social security last year filtered the risk groups so that they can be credited. This knowledge has not been used, the risk groups have not been invited to boost vaccination, the elderly have not been invited to boost vaccination, the vaccination in the pharmacy has not been made possible. There are congregations with more than 20,000 inhabitants in which there is no single doctor who immunises. The inhabitants have to drive to a vaccination centre somewhere. If you do this with 85-year-old people, then nothing can go on. Of course, there is still the underestimation: At the meeting of the main committee of this House on Sunday, you were asked by several political groups what further measures will be taken if that is not enough. There were no answers. 2 hours later, the same minister in the “ZIB 2 on Sunday” gives the audience the answers that Members did not get in here, because there seems to have been none. – This is the opposite of cooperation and the opposite of a token of trust. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Yes, a minister does not have it easily, especially in this government, I understand. The Federal Chancellor in the “Morgenjournal” has to make his way back, since the non-competent Minister of Agriculture – you know, from which device – is speaking, has no technical idea and is directed to the Minister that she “holds nothing from the word reports of the Minister of Health”. If he said something about agriculture, she wouldn't have to like it either, but on the subject of health she would have a break. Then Vice-Chancellor Kogler has to ride out for defense, and now Mrs. Schramböck comes and says you bought too little drugs, and still pours water on the Kickl’s horseworm mills. What does he think, don't you? – As a minister, you really don’t have it easy, I fully understand you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] But you have to live in this Republic with the fact that people who are not responsible speak up, so the Minister of Health has a right of guidance under the Epidemic Law. If a country captain believes he has enough intensive beds, then he can be ordered to step in. Yeah, we have federalism, but you don't have to bow to it. Yeah, you have a coalition partner, but you don't have to bend everything just to be a minister. I therefore propose that: The motion for a resolution tabled by the European Parliament and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health Gerald Loacker, colleagues in relation to “Failure of trust towards the Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection” The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection is Article 74(1) B-VG, by express resolution of the National Council, fails to give rise to confidence.’ [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[16:09]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e21303	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Prince is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e21327	Mr President! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are currently experiencing a daily Crescendo of horror news from hospitals, the media are overshadowing themselves with catastrophic reports and collapse scenarios, even here in plenary, we have just heard of such scenarios. Experts, virologists say that there is only the possibility of strict measures or vaccination, which is alternatively without. Well, how do you get out of this hysteria again? How could it be? – In part, politics will not get rid of the spirits it called. Media, fed with abermillions of funding money, now of course let their edition shoot up with sensational messages. Journalists are taking the lead in speaking and writing the hardest measures. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Number towers are shown. Moderate, more government-critical journalists are once put in the corner, which some editor has already dropped. Also experts, virologists, medical chamber representatives, intensive medical professionals are now little inclined to leave the stage and the headlight they have used to in recent months. Even there is a tendency: the more shrill the proposals, the more attention – Lockdown here, Lockdown there! No, for everyone! Contact limits, distance! What, two more, three people meet, can't we?- Oh, my God! Exclusion from public life! In private life exclusion from leisure! No sport! Yes, of course also exclusion from health, so the e-card is also taken away! There is also the following: Of course, it's sexy, the harder the measures are, and boring are those who may say: Well, in fact there were also conservative treatments, you should actually look at the health system! Why do the beds get less and less? What does one do to keep the health care staff motivated and not leave hospitals with flying flags, not because of the coronas, but because of the measures and the great pressure? – Or doctors who still take into account the nature of man, the psyche of man, children or young people: No, totally boring, we don't need that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For other careerists too, this crisis is of course a wonderful trap. Parent representatives and school speakers also want to make a career. Attendance lessons are simply unolidaric: That's to teach the kids now. Ministers also stand out here and there, perhaps they also want to inherit the Federal Chancellor. Especially Minister of Tourism, Köstinger, gives the most complex statements of itself as: No one's safe as long as not everyone's safe! – That’s a Hinininknien in the corona problem, a deep search, so you just can’t resist it. I think that such statements will of course also lead to the fact that there are travel warnings from Germany – yes, of course, if such a high representative in Austria says it is no one in Austria safe, then I would also issue travel warnings. With this panic policy, with such unsubstantiated statements, damage is done in the economy, as businesses are sent into the ruin, unemployment is produced – one can always say that health is going on, and also the blame. The Minister for Health says how long the measures take, how long the fundamental rights restrictions and restrictions of freedom – this unconstitutional state – take: Yes, please, until the burden in the hospitals is reduced! - Well, that can be controlled. I mean, we know the beds have become less and less, that's already admitted. Now it says there's no staff anymore. What does the Minister of Health make as a thank you for the health staff? - An obligation to immunise. It is expected that by doing so we will lose 20 to 30 percent of staff, and there comes the collapse of the health system with certainty. Who's to blame? – Well, you can say: These are the immaculate and not the Minister of Health! [[Abg. Sieber: One understands!]] To our chief representative, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, and his language, the lack of patience with a part of the population – the “satters and hesitants” in which one has to put on the reins; it will become uncomfortable for a part of the population in the next few months already: This week a psychiatrist has put the sad conclusion that this language addresses the lowest instincts in humans. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic can be proud that in his very young Chancellorship he has already earned an order for it – which he can attach to the Sakko – that he addresses the lowest instincts of the people. - So much for it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] It is for the common and against the division. He has just announced here again that he completely misunderstands his office. He says his task is to protect citizens' health. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] - No! We're powerful citizens. Every adult in Austria is called on to care for its individual health, the parents for the children, and the elderly are also cared for in the families. The Federal Government is in the process of providing and protecting the health system, providing staff and sufficient capacity. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the case of a Federal Chancellor who is proud of it and famous here, how many police controls have taken place against his own population in the last few days, one lacks the words. Yes, we now have the following situation: A part of the population is only allowed to go to work, and that is only under shock, shopping for food or walking alone. You must not enter a business and – for me the top symbolic summit – you must not go to the hairdresser. Then soon the lack of control is inadequate, because you can see in public places those who have impossible hairstyles and get dirty; I can then point to them with my finger: That must be an unvaccinated one! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Such a policy is being pursued. This has nothing to do with health policy, it has to do with injustice. We do not join this, but we urgently need our Plan B.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e21406	Member Smolle has been reported to speak. The word stands with him. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e21427	Mr. President! Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we are in the middle of the fourth wave. [[Call the FPÖ:Aha!]] We are not the first country to be affected. Neither are we with God the only land affected by it. One has been able to follow this quite well on the basis of the development in Israel. They were the first to be affected by the fourth wave, and they are clearly about three months ahead of us at vaccination, not at the overall vaccination rate, but at the refresher rate. [[Abg. Belakovich: Why is that so?]] They have thus succeeded in breaking this fourth wave. [[Abg. Belakovich: Why didn't we vaccinate the refreshment before the fourth wave?]] Why is this vaccination so important? – It has now been shown that the protection against a severe disease is very good for about 90 percent over six months and beyond, but that the protection from a mild disease is a little faster, and that is exactly what gives the fourth wave. [[Abg. Belakovich: Why now?- Oh, my God!]] That's why the third vaccination is so important now. There are, however, a number of strands of action, of which those with vaccination is crucial. But there is also the question – it has been repeatedly addressed – of what therapeutic possibilities there are. There's one thing I want to hold: Until now, treatment options for this disease have been extremely modest. It does not mean that any therapies that may have a marginal efficacy will not work at all or are potentially dangerous, because they do not replace the other measures. The Austrian medical profession has taken care of patients with the other health professions from the first day of the pandemic with the modest therapeutic possibilities that have existed so far. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] I would like to thank all the colleagues who have done this task responsibly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are now two preparations in the development, in the pipeline, for which there are the first very, very good clinical studies that really bring hope that if you use them early, you can largely or at least partially prevent serious processes. [[Abg. Belakovich: Sure as good as the vaccination!]] Of course, it is also our task to use these as soon as they are allowed, and we will do so with great self-evidentness and enthusiasm. [[Abg. Belakovich: Why is it not allowed?]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Why is it allowed in the UK and not in Europe?]] However, I would like to point out one thing: What I don't understand is that against the vaccinations for which there are now millions of data and innumerable scientific studies in which you know everything for and against widely, you make propaganda again and again, but other preparations in which there are fortunately two good studies with a few hundred patients, simply hyptly. With my 40 years as a doctor and scientist, I have experienced too much to be too careful. I'm optimistic. I hope it really comes as the first studies look out. But now I would like to say something to the FPÖ: You did – at least your party peak – a 180-degree turnaround about four weeks ago, because you spoke small about the disease and the pandemic for over 20 months. [[Abg. Belakovich: That's not true!]] There was the speech: That's just a little flu. [[Call the FPÖ: That's not true at all!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Who said that? Can you prove that?]] Then it said: There's no wave at all, it's just being tested here. [[Abg. Hear: That's right!]] It's called the so-called pandemic. – I have to say: I cannot understand how, in the case of more than five million deaths worldwide and more than 11 000 of them in Austria, one can talk about a so-called pandemic. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Deimek: Are you now also talking about so-called...?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I find this 180-degree turnaround positive because it is an approach to reality. [[Abg. Belakovich: Oh, my God! We've always been to reality!]] I am actually expecting that you will, of course, take part in the measures taken to curb the pandemic and that you will no longer be small-minded. Today it was again on the verge of hearing that the overload of intensive care stations was not the case at all. [[Abg. Belakovich: Do you know the Ages dashboard?]] Talk to the hospitals! Talk to the surgeons who need to ring around the intensive bed for surgery every day! This is a serious situation. [[Abg. Martin Graf:... treat patients! ... Time!]] If I let Revue happen now that you have driven and torpeded almost any measure against the pandemic, any or almost any measure to combat the pandemic – wearing masks, vaccinations, holding apart, and so on – and now point to the federal government with your finger, then it is simply bizarre. [[Abg. Belakovich: When did any of us say anything against distance? I can't remember!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, they have the responsibility!]] That's the most polite thing I can imagine. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e21715	Mrs Ecker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The word stands with her. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e21737	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to replicate briefly on my previous speaker: Who is responsible under Epidemic Law? – That’s already the Federal Government. The Salzburger Landeskliniken can soon no longer guarantee the treatment of other patients according to applicable medical standards and care standards. – These are not my words, these are the words of the management of the Salzburger Landeskliniken, which today, with an overload announcement, has sent a dramatic call for help to politics – a novum, an absolute novum in the history of health care in Salzburg. Right after that, a triage team was set up, which has to decide which patient is intensively cared for and which is not. Ladies and gentlemen, such a decision we all want to never have to make. I quote: “There is a humane dispute every day, whose patient can first be operated on,” said a Salzburg medical doctor. This is a situation, Mr. Federal Chancellor, who would have been avoidable if the Federal Government had taken up their work in good time, would have sent clear messages to the population – for example, a vaccination campaign during the summer months. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Fireplaces.]] But the current situation is only the beginning. Further hospitals will follow in the coming weeks, as Zenit, according to the experts, has not yet been reached. The house is burning, ladies and gentlemen. It doesn't burn the roof, it burns the whole house! Instead of bringing out the fire extinguisher and finally seriously fighting the pandemic, the government is sinking into conflict and rather basking on Sebastian Kurz's return. Meanwhile, the figures continue to rise, and health care in Austria is in front of the collapse. The government parties do not speak from a speech tube. – Mr Bundeskanzler, perhaps you could follow my remarks? – This creates uncertainty, and we cannot use it now, in this situation. [[towards the Federal Chancellor Schallenberg, speaking with Federal Minister Edtstadler]] [[Call: He doesn't care about that]] Their policy, Mr Bundeskanzler, is that which has pulled a crack through society. Instead of ordering timely measures for all, you have deliberately split society with the lockdown for unvaccinated. One and the other – that is the political mantra of this government. The sufferers are only the people in this country who sink and get angry and also turn corona tired away from politics. [[Abg. Deimek: That's them.]] They not only endanger the health of the population but also shake democracy in this country with their failure. We know from history what happens when people turn away from confidence in their political representatives. Yes, it was Michael Ludwig and Hans Peter Doskozil who made courageous decisions in summer. They have made Corona a joint project, have avoided polarizing, and put in place timely clear measures. Today, they are Austria's leading regions with their federal states. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The pandemic fight against these two federal states is not questioning anyone anymore – nor is it their approach. But you have to hold on to this point – and I have already formulated it in the first place – that it is the task of the federal government to take care of an epidemic and to combat this crisis through the Epidemic Law. Once again, however, responsibility to the countries was postponed. Ladies and gentlemen! It is now necessary to shake the graves, to put the binder before the separation and to build bridges, instead of constantly dividing society. We will only be able to make the way out of this pandemic. That is why I am looking for you, Federal Chancellor: Put on the reins in the government, finally fulfill your task, take care of them, stand up for them and realize that the Minister of Health must do his work and you have to support him! Finally, I would like to thank all the people who perform their daily service in hospitals, in intensive care stations, in kindergartens, in schools that have the virus in front of them every day. They all deserve my highest respect and deserve more than just recognition. Hold on!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e21804	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e21826	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! The FPÖ asks: What are all these measures for? Who needs it? Let's just live as if nothing was – pandemic back or forth! Ladies and gentlemen, believe me, these measures need to be taken. It's not over yet. The pandemic is as present as unfortunately never before and holds us under control. The last few days were very hard. The numbers of the last days speak for themselves. There were almost 12,000 infected per day, as many as never before. 83 percent of symptomatic diseases occur in the unvaccinated population. What's the FPÖ doing? – FPÖ proposes a plan B: Antibody testing and early treatment to protect the health system. What do you think is happening now? Do you think the doctors will keep people waiting until they need intensive care? - No, people are being cared for, too. [[Abg. Belakovich: Where?]] However, early treatment is not enough. It needs more. What does the FPÖ want to do? The FPÖ also wants to work with PCR testing only in the event of symptoms. Unfortunately, that's not enough, even then it's too late. [[Abg. Worm: No tests happen with us!]] We need preventive measures. Studies clearly show that in the event of vaccination, it can be better estimated how long a protection will take than in a one-time antibody test where one does not even know when the infection took place. [[Abg. Belakovich: Aha! Very medical!]] What does it say? I don't want to get vaccinated! I'm healthy anyway! I'm taking enough vitamin C! I'm not allowed to get lost by politics! – It still says: Me, me and me again! [[Abg. Belakovich: Who says that? Is that what you're saying?]] – But this isn't about your own person, it's about all of us. Selfism is not in place! [[Abg. Belakovich: You're right! There you have, of course,...!]] But a party has not yet gotten that. A party continues to act selfishly and scientifically hostilely. [[Abg. Belakovich: The Greens!]] It is said at FPÖ – exactly, Mr. Worm, just look up! –: [[in the direction of the abg, looking at the ceiling. Worm]] Science, what is it, there is eh worms, what do experts need to do?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Deimek: Ignorance and self-will...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] In this application, it is still to be read that FPÖ would like to end the division of society. - Who, please, can you believe that? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Who believes you? You want to stop the division in society? You don't even believe this is my six-year-old child. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You live by the division, you are the division, there is nothing else you can. This is your business, this is your capital. Previously, Mr Belakovich spoke and argued against asylum seekers, and now you want to act against the division? – The only thing you do with your corona policy, the only thing you want is splitting. [[Abg. Worm: You have your own entrances for the unvaccinated...! You've made your own entrances for unvaccinated people!]] You're the division! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] Without regard to losses, you split without regard to life without regard to our society. [[Abg. Amesbauer: And without a bad conscience!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is pure egoism. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] But as our Federal President said: That's not how our society is. That's not how Austria is, thank God. [[Abg. Belakovich: Hello?! That's Austria! That's how the Federal Government is!]] In Austria one looks at each other. Solidarity is now in demand, especially solidarity – as has been mentioned many times today – with the people who fight on the front front for all of us day and night, for the people at intensive care stations in hospitals. [[Abg. Deimek: Solidarity with the...!]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: Should you have a Corona...!]] These people sometimes go to the toilet once or twice. They come back voluntarily from the vacation to work to ensure the provision for us – the care that is actually of course for all of us, because it is for us. [[Abg. Deimek: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: And now?]] [[Abg. Belakovich: And what about the 500 Euro bonus now?- Oh, my God!]] Of course, it is only because these thousands of people in the health and care sector are there for us every day. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like once again to thank all the health and care professionals, all doctors, nurses, nurses, cleaning staff, all those working there. You deserve my highest respect and my appreciation. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] In short, to all the people who have not yet been vaccinated: Believe me, I understand everyone and everyone who's afraid. [[Abg. Belakovich: Why is someone supposed to believe you?- Oh, my God!]] I myself was also afraid of vaccination. [[Abg. Belakovich: Why?]] It had been written so much, I was afraid I was getting an allergic shock because I had one of them. I then spoke to my family doctor, he told me well, he could have taken my fear, and now I'm so glad I've had myself vaccinated. [[Abg. Amesbauer: There are also domestic doctors who disapprove!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: My family doctor advises me!]] Again my appeal to all Please talk to your doctor, with your doctor! [[Call the FPÖ:Read with your family doctor!]] Let yourself be vaccinated, for the vaccination is the only solution! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e22200	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e22221	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I don't know who of you knows Christopher Clark's book about the First World War. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] It is called “The Sleep Wallers”, and it describes in it how by ignorance, lack of attention, by disregarding a threatening situation – and all of this is caused by the political elites of Europe – the whole continent is domesticated in the First World War or, as Clark describes it, it has fallen asleep. The parallels to the actions of the Federal Government or rather to the non-acting in connection with the pandemic fight in summer make me actually only conclude that, I must attest to you: You've been sleeping through the pandemic in summer. You'd have had a chance to do things. They didn't do it, they slept it – and that's the shredded pile we're standing in front of now. You are solely responsible for this. It is therefore a bit cheap – because Mrs Ribo has just done this before me – to blame the FPÖ again. I also reject what FPÖ is doing in connection with its corona policy, and also the myths that are being spread here, but the fact is that the Austrian Federal Government from ÖVP and Greens is responsible for where we now stand. It is quite simple and you make it quite easy if you blame the FPÖ for not being able to push the vaccination rate up accordingly, that you were not able to expand the appropriate test capacities, and it is your federal government which is responsible for it and not the FPÖ. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Deimek.]] Not only have we, but countless experts have always pointed out: If we don't do anything in the summer, if the vaccination rate doesn't go up, we'll get a fourth wave. How can you raise such a vaccination rate? We made x proposals. Some heads of state have taken it into their own hands. You can make proper vaccination campaigns. One can send vaccination dates to unvaccinated ones via social security. You can make much more low-sleep vaccines in the summer at any festivals, at Kirtagen. You would also have liked to have young people there pay a beer for being vaccinated. I think we could have done a lot of things. Getting done by the Federal Government was almost nothing at all. You are not even able to send a fixed vaccination date for the booster vaccinations for the risk groups. You will not be able to expand corresponding PCR testing capacities now. I looked at it earlier: In my home country of Lower Austria, there are 25 places where you can pick up the PCR test for everything – 25 places for 1.7 million people. In the 5th century, ask yourself how it is. Wiener Gemeindekreis, in Margareten, is! There are 54 000 people living there, there are also 25 places to pick up such PCR tests. To sit down now and to say that you've done everything right is quite annoying if you don't even do that. In the summer, in view of the oberösterreichische Landtagswahlkampf, they are somehow quite anxious as the rabbit sat in front of the blows, thinking: Unpopular measures are not appropriate, and have therefore done nothing. Mr Health Minister, you have even started the vaccination campaign and, I believe, one and a half months ago, you will now begin to make a proper vaccination campaign. I'll tell you something. That was a bit too late. Now we're in the situation that we have a lockdown for unvaccinated. Mr. Health Minister, not only did you not answer the questions on Sunday in the main committee, but you also said 2 hours later in the "ZIB 2" that you will soon also want to have starting blocks for vaccines. They are very much following your predecessor in the disregard for our fundamental and freedom rights and in constitutional dilettantism. I think it is irresponsible that those people who have been vaccinated twice or even three times, who still regularly test themselves, should now be the fools. Mr Bundeskanzler, I would like to speak to you. I rely on you in this situation that these people are not being imprisoned at home, just because your coalition partner suddenly believes that this would be a useful means. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It's so annoying that you could have looked around! Look at Portugal as they did! They have organized this general-stab, since everyone has been sent to a vaccination date, then they have been dubbed after the people. You tried to do the same. I don't understand, you're surrounded by the Cabinet of the Federal Chancellor of People who worked at McKinsey, who worked at PCG, who could do something like this: Large management consulting companies are able to set up such large processes so that as many people as possible are vaccinated. If you can't do it yourself, then leave it, look for an experienced pandemic manager or anyone with management quality at all! Let us work together to increase the vaccination rate! I ask all people in Austria: Go immunize for the first time, for the second or also for the third time! It protects you, and it protects the others!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e22295	The Federal Minister Mückstein has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e22326	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The situation is extremely serious. 10 363 positive tests are reported today. The seven-day incidence has risen from 653 to 916 in the past week. In the younger age group, the incidence in the unvaccinated is 2 000 and 350 in comparison to the vaccinated. For a week more than 58 people have been on the intensive care stations, and more than 350 people have been on the normal stations for a week. We hear the calls from the doctors, from the nurses from the hospitals – these are the numbers, these are very technical things – they can no longer be there. [[Abg. Belakovich: We hear the calls for help too!]] A triage team was set up in Salzburg. These are six people who decide in individual cases who gets an intensive bed and who does not. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] This is not the only proof that we are in a very serious situation. In the last few days, in many federal states, tightenings have been made, for example the extension of the FFP2 mask duty or the rejection of events. We agree in the Federal Government that we now have to break the fourth wave – here the Chancellor and I agree – and we have therefore put in place in recent days decisive measures for the Austrian population: Since yesterday in Austria, a lockdown is valid for non-vaccinations. We have expanded the controls massively. Since Monday last week, the 2G rule, that is to say, healed or vaccinated, is considered as a condition for most areas of life, and 3G is considered to be at work. How much effect will these measures have? – Tomorrow we get a first – I emphasize it here again – first gross assessment by our experts. Ideally, then, we get a sense of whether and how fast it goes in the right direction. On the basis of this, we will make further decisions. It's not about abstract numbers or waves, it's about human life, it's about whether people get a vital treatment or not. Therefore, together we advise week by week, day by day, where we still have ways to reduce the number of infections. This is important to me: Please let us all pull together on one strand! This applies to us as a federal government. I have to tell you honestly and self-critically that we as the Federal Government have remained behind this claim in the last few days. Joint communication is crucial, and we agree on this too. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] At the same time, however, this applies to all the parties represented here in the House, to all Members. We need to do everything together to break the fourth wave. That's what people expect from us out there. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] One thing is clear: What we need in the long term is a higher rate of vaccination. The good news is: We already see the effects of the measures we have taken. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] The number of bouts per day has quadrupled in recent times, since the 3G regulation announced at the workplace. Last Friday we were able to give almost 80,000 stitches in Austria, almost 50,000 of them being third-party. I think that's impressive. I would like to thank those who have gone to vaccination and also those who have organized and administered this vaccination. We're on a good way. - Thank you. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Also because comparisons are drawn time and again: We administered more doses of vaccination last Sunday than Germany. That's really impressive. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Worm: So it's no longer embarrassing?]] By the way, we are currently clearly one with regard to the current vaccination rate in European comparison. [[Abg. Worm: Ah!]] We also need to stick to the third-party foundations. [[Abg. Smoking:... wrong instigators!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] We know that the third stings – I just carried out – account for most of the vaccinations. In addition to Israel, we are the only country with systematic third-party vaccinations. There's much going on, that's hugely important, and that'll help break the fourth wave. Finally, I would like to remind all of you once again that in the fight against pandemics, in ensuring intensive capacity, we are putting an end to the health of the population. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We can only work together to break the fourth wave now. If we all stick to the measures, we wear masks, we wash our hands, we hold back, we reduce contacts wherever possible! [[Abg. Smoking: Mr. Federal Chancellor, did you hear? That's the opposite of what you said!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] If we are motivating, please motivate the people to be vaccinated! This is our way, so we get the numbers down again, and so we relieve the intensive stations together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e22494	Member of the Worm has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e22515	Mr President. I would like to turn today to the spectators outside, to all the unvaccinated spectators, to all those who have been healed and, of course, to all those who have been vaccinated. We are all sitting in the same boat, and I really ask you not to follow the federal government and join this division and this mutual incitement. We Austrians must keep together, and what the Federal Government has been doing for months is, precisely by this division, to distract them from their own failure, from the failure of their policies and from their inability. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's why my appeal is: Hold it together and don't let it split! There are some things that the government is obviously not quite voting on. I also say quite clearly: The plan to introduce vaccinations in the care professions and to terminate all those who do not follow them can only be described as highly carefree and unfair. Obviously, there should be a change of course here, thanks to God, because I believe it is common risk that in the present phase there will be 15 to 20 percent of professionals in care. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, for weeks and months we have been supporting all those in care who oppose this measure exactly. I say one thing now – because it always comes again and again and we know these usual shakes towards FPÖ in truth for decades –: What has changed and what makes you a problem is that 80 percent are not FPÖ voters. They remember for the first time on their own body, which is driven for a game: Introduced with untruths, half-truths, pressure and brutality. They now understand for the first time how liberals have been for years and decades when we are put under pressure without evidence, without content, and are stamped to the outsider. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] So I think it is very good that now many Austrians have woken up and also the media no longer believe, rightly don't believe anymore, and many other things are rightly questioning. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] What I and my colleagues have been experiencing for months are desperate fates and people. When a pregnant, pregnant woman calls and reports that she has been born in eight weeks and the hospital has told her that she should not be released from the hospital without vaccination, then it is simply, I clearly say, piggy that happens – I clearly say that. There are many, many similar fates. Similarly, on Sunday workers are forced to try to run a test somewhere else. All the regulations you make, which are pointless in the back and in the front, about which you can only shake your head, and all these things that we criticize, we very much criticise. Once again, and that's quite, very important to me – we have the lockdown or the house arrest for the immunities for now nine days, because since last week you can hardly do anything again as an immunist, and now it is tightened again –: But all of this will be of no use, and you will have to admit that in the last episode. Federal Chancellor Kurz – I always say German Chancellor – who is not here now has given an interesting speech today. He was at least elected at some point; You, Mr Schallenberg, have never been elected. German Chancellor Kurz has said something interesting today, namely: The incidence of the double-vaccinated is 350 or more and the unvaccinated is 1 000. [[Abg. Prince: 1,700! 1,700!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] This is a 180-degree turn, with which the former Chancellor Kurz admits that double-vaccinations are not, of course, protected. [[Abg. Jeitler-Cincelli: No one ever said that!]] The story was quite different, and I am glad that things are slowly coming to light. You, Mr. German Chancellor – I say it again – have not officially apologised to this day. I do not ask you to do so, I ask you to finally take back your statement that you have to “pull the reins” on the unvaccinated, and officially apologise. The unvaccinated are not cattle, Mr. Chancellor, these are people and Austrians, and they have not deserved such a statement. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I ask you to apologise today in the context of the plenary session. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I've been saying this for months, you can also read it: The vaccination has a certain effect, but not in width as promised and especially not in duration as promised. You can read this clearly and clearly in the study results of the English Ministry of Health. You promised people something you can't keep. That is why we should inform people honestly and tell them: After a few months, vaccination is gone! But you should also tell them, and there are also studies, even answers from your own home: If you've survived Corona, you're 99 percent safe. Finally, I would like to say very briefly: They have, in my opinion, really lied and deceived the people, and this construction is slowly collapsing. People feel this and see it. What we have always recommended to you would have been to make a corona policy with the heart and the brain at an eye level with the citizens. It can be summarized with: towards Swedish road. You don't like to hear that, but if someone looks more closely at it and looks at Sweden, he'll see the difference. You never wanted that. They wanted to make scapegoats, they wanted to drive brutally in. For a while your communication policy has gone up, but now it has failed. I say it here again: We all of the liberals are willing to discuss with you when you change your policy, reasonable, based on numbers, data, facts and scientific findings. However, their policy has failed, and people have now come to realize it. I hope you'll end it soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e22611	Mrs Plakolm is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e22633	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, and above all love In addition to today's Parliamentary session! At the beginning I would like to wish FPÖ chief Herbert Kicklvon here for good and soon recovery from his corona disease. I think the joy of reading it in social media is absolutely inappropriate. But what is definitely inappropriate is the choice of words and the lack of responsibility of the FPÖ since the beginning of this pandemic. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] If, like Herbert Kicklin, one speaks of a press conference about a vaccination rape, then the victims of this terrible crime are ridiculed, thus detesting all victims of rape. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] In terms of content, some experts and doctors have already taken a position on your Plan B. I do not want to waste my speaking time discussing whether or not a product is effective for horses. Don't misunderstand me: I do not find it irrational that you are thinking about the pandemic and that you are also creating a plan that is known to argue about its content is a lot, much more that you knowingly insure people, people who trust you and your conspiracy theories, who hold something on to your opinions and believe your statements. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] It's an incredible abuse of power you're playing with. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] But what is not to be surpassed is your recommendations for action to doctors and also to nurses, to the medical staff. I read from your request: “The heart of Plan B is the early treatment of Corona-positive people, so that a severe illness can be prevented with hospitalization.” – What do you think? What doctors and nurses do all day in the hospital? [[Abg. Belakovich: Can't you read? Early!]] They have lost absolute sight of reality. They have lost sight of the reality that is now taking place at our intensive care stations. [[Abg. Belakovich: That's it: too late!]] Once again, I would like to take the opportunity to thank all those who work in the health field, in the hospitals, in rescue organizations, in the test and vaccination streets and at many other facilities: Thank you for your work! They have been doing incredible since the beginning of this pandemic, around the clock, day and night. [[Abg. Belakovich: This is exactly the problem: Only in the hospital will they be treated! That's the problem!]] I would like to point out clearly what Mr Prince has said in front of this House. She was talking about a hysteria. This is a blow to the face for all those who experience daily the situation in hospitals that are confronted daily with the loss of family members because of Corona. That's what you told them in the face: that this is just a hysteria, and I strongly reject it! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Even if you do not want to see it true, the situation in hospitals is bitter reality, and the images that we have known so far only from Italian hospitals reflect a situation that has now also reached us. [[Abg. Kassinger: That's hysteria!]] What really makes me angry is that some still do not want to know that there is already an effective remedy against this corona pandemic, against this severe disease. The vaccination works, it protects against severe processes, is free and easy to have. [[Abg. Deimek: 300 people are in quarantine because of you, because of the boy ÖVP! You're a scandal!]] I would also like to illustrate this with facts: Three out of four intensive beds are needed by unvaccinated people. Those who have been vaccinated have no severe course to 95 percent and are 70 percent less contagious. This lockdown for the unprotected, which unfortunately became necessary, is absolutely homemade, not a question, and the sufferers are among other things we young people: The club's life is reduced from a sense of responsibility, events, concerts, sports events, even in the voluntary field, are cancelled. This, of course, is also true of young people who have been vaccinated. Young people need to adjust their lives, school and leisure to the immunities in this society, and I absolutely do not understand that. The restrictions are made by those who do not want to see the effectiveness of the vaccination, who are out of egoism about the common good and misuse the concept of freedom. They act unolidarically with those who have prediseases and who depend on a high rate of vaccination. That is why I also advocate a vaccination obligation for professional groups with inevitably many social contacts, such as health and education. [[Abg. Amesbauer: They'll quit then!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Very responsible!]] In these highly sensitive areas, we must massively minimize the risk of infection in order to protect those who now need our help most. There are people who cannot be vaccinated because of severe pre-diseases or because the vaccine has not yet been approved for all ages, and we need to protect these people more and more. A pandemic is not a private matter. A pandemic needs a joint effort of all, whether I'm afraid of the disease that causes the corona virus, or if I think that the virus can do nothing to me anyway. Now is not the time for conspiracy and demonstrations, now everyone who can make his contribution – out of responsibility, out of solidarity and, above all, out of co-humanity. The next squirt from wave to wave must now finally have an end, so I appeal again: Let yourself be vaccinated, whether for the first, the second or the third time! Only the vaccination works and also brings us out of this pandemic. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e22811	Mrs Erasim is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e22833	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! I think that is the right word, because what is happening here is only lip recognition, if you all thank yourself so euphoricly to those who stand in the pandemic in the health professions of her wife, her husband. Unfortunately, there is nothing in the budget, and that is really sad. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] ÖVP and FPÖ are unfortunately a dangerous duo when it comes to finding solutions in a dramatic situation. They are both at the exact same level of responsibility and refusal of reality, only with different accesses. However, it is above all your task – the task of the government – to keep this country safe in times of pandemic. As a ‘damagingly low’, you, Mr. Federal Chancellor, who is currently reading on the phone, call the vaccination rate — shamefully low is the competence that exists in this government. Diletate for almost two years You around here and you can't control the pandemic. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] We are now disgraceful final light in the number of infections throughout the European Union, and what are you doing in this dramatic situation? – They do not sit within this failed government and try to pull the car out of the trash, no, the ÖVP avenges the Greens because they shot their Messiah in the embodiment of Sebastian Kurz out of the Chancellor's Office! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl.]] Mr. Federal Minister Mückstein, I have warned of this very revenge at this very point. This revenge is very, very bitter in ÖVP ways, especially for the population. From children to intensive care stations to triage teams to completely overburdened health personnel – the list of your tragic thumbs could be continued endlessly. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Gerstl]] The population is rightfully expected from policy planning security, legal certainty, but also decisions that last longer than 5 minutes. Mr Health Minister, on Sunday's regulation, a novel is already needed. That shows how little thought out what you're doing here is. You too, Mr Health Minister, have failed, because you are well equipped by the Constitution to take timely action – and above all effective measures – instead you are carrying out your internal coalition dispute at kindergarten level on an open level and thus achieve only one, namely, even more uncertain population, ladies and gentlemen! “Government war” was a headline yesterday. – Yes, you say you're not ashamed of such headlines? Aren't you ashamed of these many avoidable deaths? Are you not ashamed of the despair that you create in so many industries? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl.]] Our tourism minister Elisabeth Köstinger also makes a particularly serious contribution to the uncertainty in Austria. She's not here today, but you can't let her be unmentioned in this failure series. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Gerstl.]] Now there is a travel warning from Germany. She, the minister, was the one who took action by a successful country captain and mayor in the summer, calling his actions “absurd”. – What do you call absurd now, Mr Bundeskanzler, if the largest, most important business partner and the most important tourist guests place us on the list of those countries that are considered untravelable? Dear Federal Government! Austria was a country that enjoyed high reputation far beyond the borders. You've been seriously damaged by this reputation. The tourism industry is seriously damaged, as I have already mentioned. She's standing in front of a messy pile for a time. All promises, all promises with zigmillions of expensive winter magic campaigns can be thrown into the dynamite because they are not worth the paper on which they stand. Instead of a summer like then, there will be a winter like last year. The hoteliers' association also shows itself to be unscathed about your mismanagement. I quote: “[...] Our camps are full, our teams and guests are vaccinated. But this does not help if everything is missing all around.” – There is a lack of sense and understanding in particular, a lack of courage and enforcement and a lack of will to involve the population and one. They sleep all summer and then want to tighten the reins of the population. The only thing that needs to be tightened is the reins with you, dear Federal Government, because Austria has really not deserved such a thing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e22944	Reported as follows: Mrs Elisabeth Götze. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e22965	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I would like to begin with an actual correction because the FPÖ stubbornly claims that Ivermectin is still used by the merciful brothers, and that is not so. [[Abg. Hauser: This is sold in pharmacies!]] It has been proved – and this has also been communicated by them themselves – that all hopes in this worm drug have not come true. [[Congratulations on Greens, ÖVP and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Deimek: This is not an actual correction, it is a speech contribution! That's what I said, Madam President...!]] Yeah, a miracle drug, and this miracle drug, if you want to, we've already got it. The data clearly show: Those who can be vaccinated protect themselves, their fellow human beings and the economy as well. We see this in Upper Austria, in Salzburg, where the vaccination rates are relatively low, and unfortunately in all of Austria. For us as citizens, the home office, short work, possibly loss of work, no Christmas purchases, no family food in the favorite restaurant, perhaps no holiday. For entrepreneurs, and this is very important to me as an economic speaker, it means sales losses, shop closures, frustrations, partly hopelessness. For the state – and here we are in charge – last year it meant aid payments and support payments at billions, less tax revenue and, as we see here, a division of society. As an economic spokesperson, I have already said it, I am committed to the availability of the necessary economic assistance for businesses, for companies, for employees. The range of people who have contacted me is huge: from the swimming instructor to the restaurant operator, the musician, the landlord from event equipment to the hotelier. We know that last year, thanks to these economic aids, which we have decided together, the assurance of businesses has been so successful. But we also know: It's just a symptom fight. We need to solve the problem in principle. Now I come to the solution: We know the solution, the solution is vaccination. Those who can be vaccinated can protect themselves from serious history, and with the vaccination we can also protect those who cannot be vaccinated because they have severe diseases or are children. Vaccination is therefore our solidarity. We all want to return to our beloved habits, and we can do this with vaccination, when enough people are vaccinated. We know we need a vaccination rate of more than 80 percent, and we need to do that. This is solidarity! That's what we need to achieve! [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as Members of the NEOS.]] So as long as this is not the case, it says again: Limit contacts – with all the unpleasant consequences, I have described them before – and it also says: new economic aid. That's not why we're going to come around, and we're going to get used to that either. I appeal to everyone – to everyone, especially in this direction: [[towards FPÖ]] Please go immunise so that we can finally get hold of this pandemic permanently! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e23033	The next speaker was Mrs Fiona Fiona Fiedler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e23055	Madam President. High house! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Valuable Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! [[The salutation also in sign language:]] Love deaf people! Unfortunately, the total lifting of measures required by FPÖ is complete utopia due to the government failure. Healthy isn't healthy. How does a person in this pandemic know if he's healthy? He hears inside, he feels he's fine, he feels fit, so he's healthy? – He makes a test because he has to or even because he wants, and this test is positive. And even if this man is still doing well, he may be transferring this virus. Therefore, test roads, pharmacies and other sites offer the opportunity to be tested: because you are subjectively healthy but can nevertheless be transferors of a virus that may have fatal effects for others. In addition, since January 2021, Austria has had the opportunity to be vaccinated. I wonder, Then why aren't more people still vaccinated? We will always meet people who are not allowed to be vaccinated, and yes, this is a free decision that can be made by everyone. Here we speak of 3 to 5 percent of the population, but there is still a lot of air up there: the people who still vary, who are not sure, who have not yet received enough information; there are people who do not even think about whether they can be vaccinated or not, and there are people who do not have a place to live vaccination. Mr Health Minister, you should have been actively addressing all these people from the very beginning with letters and vaccination dates, and should have been inviting the elderly people and the risk groups to boost vaccination, for example, in Portugal since September. This post works wonderful with us when it comes to breast cancer or vaccination dates at the mother-child pass. Why don't we use this model for the Covid vaccinations? It would be so easy! Mr Minister, it is your job, among other things, to monitor the advance of vaccination in the federal states. My home country, the Styria, is currently well below the average with 7.4 percent third-party vaccination. In the case of the over 55-year-olds, the Styria lies with 15 percent behind. Because of the hesitant test management the Steiermark in this pandemic most deaths in nursing homes. Faith You really think the vaccination is working there now? Upper Austria is also behind the booster vaccinations. Nothing happened there before the election; nothing happens there after the election either. That's where you need action, it's urgent! In Austria we currently have a vaccination rate of about 65 percent. If I generously charge the 5 percent of absolute vaccination skeptics, then still 30 percent unvaccinated people we can reach. If we convince at least half that we are going to immunize, we have achieved a lot. We could also do this through targeted vaccination in pharmacies, as Portugal and 13 other countries in Europe also put it. The government is talking about doing everything to get people to immunize – then please get the pharmacists into the vaccination boat! It certainly doesn't make it worse. Every trick more counts in this pandemic. In order to give you the opportunity to show everyone that you are really trying to increase the vaccination rate, I am now bringing in the following motion for a resolution, which you can now finally agree to. Even the FPÖ has repeatedly agreed to this request. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[17:14]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e23217	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Mr Christian Hafenecker is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e23246	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! At today's meeting, we see how absurd the approach of the Austrian Federal Government is now: On the one hand, Mr. Bundeskanzler Schallenberg, who calls the immunization of the immunization of the vaccination, is also with Israel immediately, and on the other hand, Mr. Mückstein, who says that we are European champions in the vaccination, and it is all in the best order. – So I think that alone is a symbol of how you are doing in the government and in the coalition, and that is something you should take out. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Erasim, Mrs. Köstinger, too, is leaving me because she is also one who is responsible for the image we are transporting outside. I think she's also in the house, just one floor deeper, and she counts, I think, whether all the Lipizzans are still there, because she's still responsible for that – that's just by the way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Salzmann.]] Ladies and gentlemen, but back to the subject: I have already said in the main committee what you, Federal Chancellor and Minister of Health, have done here: That's the opening of the Pandora's canals. You now block healthy people with your actions, you brand healthy people, you discredit healthy people, criminalise healthy people and de facto prohibit them from working and training – and even if President Sobotka does not like it: This reminds me of some of the measures that have been taken in the 1930s, and this has not deserved this Republic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Bundeskanzler, something else: I'm looking through your strategy. You want to turn the unvaccinated people into a scapegoat for your failure in the Federal Government, especially in summer, and you do not take the right measures: You have not seen that the number of hospital beds is increased accordingly, you have not made sure that the caregivers get a wage improvement and a premium. Do you know what you've done in the meantime? – You have taken 500 million euros, which would have belonged exactly to this health sector, and invested in media to buy an opinion in the media and to whitewash the west of Sebastian Kurz, who unfortunately is not here as always. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] That's what you did with the money you took away from the taxpayer. Another point to discuss is a Minister of the Interior Nehammer, who, in turn, is in all-powered fantasies, so to speak, urging all the country's criminal authorities to take action against their own population. There are two district strips that make controls. They are pleased that 15 000 checks have been carried out on persons in Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is totalitarian, it cannot be described otherwise! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] And yes, I also have to tell the President of Croatia, who said, “this is fascism”. – We don't need that in our country, you have to let that happen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is here in the House a representative of the ÖVP, namely Mr Hintner, who has really and actually said that you can no longer treat unvaccinated people in hospitals. Mr Hintner, to date I have not heard any excuse for this incredible derailment – on the contrary. They are questioning our entire health system! Will an extreme athlete no longer be treated in the future if he suffers an accident somewhere? Will an overweight person no longer be treated in the future because he may eat a pig's bread too much? And What happens to the Minister of Health who just started smoking? – Perhaps he too has a problem on the lungs and would like to be treated. Mr Hintner is the guarantee that the Minister of Health will not be treated again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to a close. What you're doing here with this lockdown for unvaccinated is nothing but a pedagogical measure on the Austrian population, is nothing but making a group of people responsible for the fact that you have failed most personally. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is the reason why we invite to the demonstration on Saturday at Heroesplatz in the city centre of Vienna: simply because it seems no longer enough to have a parliamentary discourse with you here, but I think it is important that the population also signalises you by means of a strong participation, how much the displeasure against your approach has become.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e23352	Ladies and gentlemen, for the expression ‘this is fascism’ I give you a call for order. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Deputies Hafenecker and Steger: That was a quote!]] Mr Alois Stöger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e23394	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! We have to deal with two right-wing parties here in Parliament, who are overlooking each other on the issue of how to use the issue of the pandemic only for their personal performance. On the one hand, there is the FPÖ, which does not take this very seriously, and on the other hand, there is the ÖVP, which always knows how the others must live, and who wants to arrange authoritarianly from above always. The chairman of this party, the former chancellor, Kurz, has today recommended looking at the facts in the area of the pandemic. What are the facts? The fact is that the pandemic is grassing unabated. The fact is that the Federal Government prefers to put in place measures rather than necessary. And the fact is that those federal states – which are not governed by the ÖVP – are well in place, which have set up activities in the summer, for which they have also been criticized by the ÖVP, namely Vienna and the Burgenland – there is another situation. We have always said, and above all our party chairman Pamela Rendi-Wagner, that we must live with this pandemic, we must deal with it carefully, and it has proposed many measures which you, ladies and gentlemen, have unfortunately not taken. And what does the “falter ” say today? – He quotes an expert from Denmark, he asked: [[Call the ÖVP: The “Falter”?]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: The Renner Institute, or what?]] How can one make it – Mr. Federal Chancellor – that more people can be vaccinated? And what does this expert say? – First of all, he says: You have to make it a collective action. [[Call the ÖVP: Well, that's it!]] – We managed to do so in April of 2020, that we have jointly said that we also share many of the measures taken by this Federal Government as an opposition. That's what we did. And then at some point there was a split. The second thing this expert, Michael Bang Petersen, says is: Avoid polarization! - That's important. You have to reach people! You also have to gain the trust of these people. However, trust cannot be gained if sanctions are to be envisaged and these sanctions are martial. I say it quite clearly: These statements with the reins – Mr Bundeskanzler, this is not possible. The people in Austria must have respect, the people in Austria must trust a federal government – and I do not trust anyone who wants to wear the reins, I do not trust such people. Mr. Federal Chancellor, trust is something very central. Trust is important for politics, and trust is also important in medicine: Every doctor, every doctor knows that the healing in medicine is trust. I have to trust my doctor, I have to trust my doctor, and I also have to trust that the expertise that this person brings in is good for me. We need to talk to people about this. Let's talk to them! This doesn't work according to the motto: Put on reins or not. Secondly, Mr Health Minister, don't ever go back to a press conference, where the Minister of the Interior is there too! You don't need that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Go to a press conference where experts are involved, such as Prof. von Laer, who also says: We do not want 3G in the sense of “vaccinated, healed or dead, ” but we want a real discussion. Dear Federal Government: Go here and think about your rules! How does it work that employees at the Amag in Ranshofen come to their test today? – If you can answer that, then you will get respect from people. And if there is only one place in my district where vaccination is done, people will not be able to be vaccinated. This is your business. Please do it! And once again, Federal Chancellor: You are responsible for the members of your Federal Government. If anyone doesn't fit you, take him back! And if you think that you have a management function, then get the Federal Minister, talk to him twice in your office, but don't judge to the public that you are not the Federal Minister! I found this very important that the Federal Chancellor is behind the Minister of Health. He doesn't have it easy in a pandemic, and what he has to expect is that the Federal Chancellor is behind him. It's not about the image, it's about people. I say one more thing – last question –: In Upper Austria, 59 people have died in the last four days. How many of them go to the account of tenderness?
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e23457	I now have a word on business treatment: Member of the Harbour ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e23484	Thank you, Madam President. I understand the animo of your call for order, but I still want to point to one, namely: The quote “this is fascism” – and I hope I said it; perhaps you can also look up again – comes from the Croatian president. I understand the call for order and I also know the rules on quotations, but I only ask one question – and perhaps you can help me, Madam President: I think it is precisely this statement by the Croatian President that sooner or later we will be working here in Parliament. I now ask myself the question: How are we supposed to talk about something like this when we have to spit it out or anything else? So: How should we deal with things that also concern us foreign-politically if we do not use or not mention them here? – This is my question, and my request is also to think about such things with regard to the practice of sayings.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e23520	I ask if there is another word for business treatment. – This is obviously not the case. [[Call at the ÖVP: That's the low point anyway!]] Mr President, as you know, I am not going to get involved in this in-depth debate in my presidency. But what is clear is – and you have pointed out – that we have the rule that there is also an assessment in the case of quotations whether the dignity of the house is violated or not; it is only right if one makes a quote at the same time to his own opinion – then it corresponds to the practice of saying that it is legitimate to call. However, I have had the impression that you did not question that in your speech. I will now continue with this in the list of speakers. Mrs Agnes Sirkka Prammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e23551	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! I am actually pleased about such debates because they remind us of the importance of fundamental and freedom rights for our society. Unfortunately, they also show us how little knowledge of the design, content and functioning of these rights are in large parts of the population. No right works absolutely, nor the fundamental rights. This would also contradict the principle of fundamental rights, namely that they apply to all equally and equally. This principle itself lays down the limits: The freedom of one ends where the freedom of the other begins. Or, as Mai Thi Nguyen-Kim says: Your right to swing your fist ends where my nose begins. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That means: Fundamental rights are delimitable, they must be delimitable – of course, in the constitutional framework. In general terms, this means that the limitation of one fundamental right is permitted where there is a threat to the other fundamental right. What does this mean now that they are being transferred to these measures? – Let me explain it by an example: Take a group of healthy, fit, athletic people who can't ski, give them skis and ski clubs, put them up on a mountain and say: Get down! – They are going to fall dead, some are going to fall down, some are going to hurt themselves hard, others may be a little easier, some will even come down in a healing way. And because they are sporty and fit and athletic, they will learn how to ski in the course of this neckbreakerous ride. They will get the turn out, they will find out how to control speed, how to change direction, and will master this mountain in some way. And then take another group of just as fit, just as sporty, as healthy, just as athletic people and show them how to make a snowplow – or a pizza piece as you say now – teach them how to make a bogerl, and let them try it out in a protected area – and then let these people go down the mountain. [[Abg. Worm: That's very far from here!]] I think it's obvious that the likelihood of the healing coming down is much higher. This corresponds exactly to how our immune system works. It can still be so fit and still be so healthy, Corona needs to learn first. [[Abg. Stefan: This is a plea for genes!]] This goes on the hard tour by simply letting these people fall down the mountain, saying: it simply exposes the virus. Or you let her do a ski course first, you say: you impfet. [[Abg. Stefan: I’ve already learned to make Bogerl, but I’m not allowed to go anywhere! Why?]] Now again to the measures: Of course, it remains to everyone and everyone themselves whether he or she prefers to meet the virus with or without preparation. But if hospitals are so full of broken pilots that other people who need urgent care cannot get them, then you have to lock the slopes for those who have no idea of skiing; then you can only leave them open for practice. [[Abg. Hauser: Such a fool!]] Since at this moment the right to adequate health care is higher than the right to self-realization, these measures are now both necessary and acceptable. [[Abg. Deimek: No one has the intention to build a wall!]] [[Abg. Worm: Who are the trained skiers then?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e23660	Mr Helmut Brandstätter has now been notified to the House. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e23681	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers and Dear Seers! I would like to start by thanking all the employees of the intensive care stations who are fulfilling an incredible task in these days. We can't all imagine that. I've been told by a doctor. This is a task that is really so stressful that we should remember when we sit here. I spoke only yesterday to Prof. Greil, an oncologist in Salzburg, who told me very clearly: Do you know what responsibility we have as doctors every day when we make decisions? – I have heard from his words that he has the impression that this responsibility is not so felt and lived in politics, and I promise that I will say this here. That is why I also spoke to him because what Mr Landesführer Haslauer said just a few days ago really shocked me personally. I have experienced Wilfried Haslauer as a college colleague many years ago. I think he's one of the really educated ones and I thought him a responsible politician until then. But then to make fun of virologists – that they want to arrest people who eventually starve and starve at them – that was embarrassing. [[Abg. Gerstl: Wrong! He didn't!]] [[Federal Minister Edtstadler: He didn't!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Niss.]] [[Abg. Gerstl: He didn't!]] But even worse is the following: It was not only embarrassing, but it has underlined something which is unfortunately very present in this country, namely an incredible science hostility. We heard it again today. I don't want to go into this stupid deodorizing agent at all, but please note that there are scientists who are working seriously, who know what they are doing and what they say. We all have to be very happy that they do. There are a lot of people in Austria who do this. It's no coincidence that Prof. Kittel wrote to me. He is the head of the Austrian Corona Panel Project. This is not a child's letter that you can present and say about it: [[Keeping a document in height]] See how much I love, and the child loves me too! This is a very serious mail from Prof. Kittel, in which he writes: Playing on the piano of pandemic and science hostility is irresponsible and also contributes significantly to the failure to overcome the pandemic. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] He also writes: Please pay attention to this at the National Council! I do not know any other party represented in the National Council to which I can address this concern. – There is also an interesting and sad finding. This science hostility is damaging to us today because it has been around for a long time. In summer you can read on posters: The pandemic is mastered! – First of all, it was not only very stupid, but it was really dangerous, because what the scientists told us at that time was that the fourth wave was coming. It said: Don't worry, and that was wrong. The Federal Chancellor, who left the hall, is just as near as he said: We have not been able to know all of this, no one has alerted us! The “profile” has proved very well that the scientists said it very well in the summer. It is also not worthy of a German chancellor to present himself here now and to say: I didn't know that! No, he must have known. The next point: Mr Wöginger said here: Yeah, we got the house's mind. He's not here right now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] – Mr Wöginger, you can go shopping with the house mind, but you can't damage research. That's what you did. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Now I will bring you the book “Factfulness”. [[The speaker keeps the book by Hans Rosling up to date.]] I ask you a question so that you can see how it is with the house mind – those who have read it, please don't play with it –: How much percent of the year-old children worldwide have already received at least one vaccination? How much percent? [[Abg. Worm: Hopefully none!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Dr. Mückstein may know that. Well, what do you think? Not many. Europeans surveyed say: After about 5 percent, 10 percent, 20 percent! – No, 80 percent of children worldwide have already received vaccination. The book was written in 2018. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] That is, the people, including the educated, are completely in addition to the so-called house mind. We are grateful to have the scientists who teach us. Now I'm coming to the end. Mr Foitik from the Red Cross, who – as my impression was – tried to help the government take a bite on the jumps, asked today: What is the political objective in the fight against pandemic? He doesn't know either. Imagine, we live in a country where one of the leading helpers – he works at the Red Cross – who has also been consulted before and who has perhaps said things that have not been heard, says he also does not know what the political goal is! How can we fight this pandemic if you, ladies and gentlemen in the Federal Government, have no idea of it, if you also argue with each other and end up going to the scientists? Stop it and trust those who work for us, and trust only those who are day and night with incredible protective clothing for the sick who are unfortunately there! We have also heard how many have died in the last few days. Let us trust those who work there and thank them!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e23805	Next speaker: Mrs Martina Künsberg Sarre. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e23836	Madam President. Minister! Minister! High house! Dear viewers! If I listen to the speeches of Turquoise Green, I really think you still think you've mastered the pandemic well. I would like to say it again to you: You didn't master the pandemic well! [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] They didn't manage to achieve a sufficiently high vaccination rate. On the contrary: We are in the world’s leading field of infection and at the bottom of the vaccinations. Because you do not make it in adults, continue to carry the pandemic on the back of the children and adolescents. Our children pay the price for your missing policy. [[Complementary of the Abg. Yılmaz.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Do you know what you do to the children and young people with this missing policy? For months they have heard that they must be solid, that isolation, school closures and distance learning are necessary to protect older people and risk groups. They accepted this without Mucks, they kept up with a lot of things in great style. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] But you haven't brought anything together at this time and managed to do with your missing policy that we are in the world's top end in school closures. Unlike many other countries, they have not managed to reduce restrictions first in children and adolescents – on the contrary. They also know the effects: The loss of education and life opportunities, mental and physical stress and disease, especially strong in those who had a hard time before the pandemic. Only gradually will the accompanying damage become apparent. Triagation on the child and youth psychiatric system has been given for months and a fact. The waiting period for a treatment site is months – and we are talking about severe eating disorders or suicide tests. There is no talk about this at all. [[Abg. Worm: Yes, for months!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Oh yes!]] However, the main issue is: You pasted: The pandemic is mastered! For students, de facto nothing has changed. There are neither days of hiking nor can there be courses of external providers at the schools, neither with 2G nor with 2G and PCR test, not to mention ski lessons, sports weeks and other important social experiences. But it's not just school alone. I have three children and two of them are teenagers. I wish for my children, but also for all other children, young people and young adults, that they can finally do everything they want. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] I wish for them that they may try to celebrate wherever and with whomever. I wish for my children that I can pick them up from night parties, dance classes or balls and that they will take place and not be permanently postponed. [[Call to the ÖVP: Nice unit!]] I wish for children, young people and young adults that they can experience something that we have all experienced. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] Instead of taking care of the boys, you did nothing before the Upper Austria election – and the Greens participated. Instead of taking care of the boys, you have made a pension increase before the Upper Austria election – and the Greens have joined again. Instead of caring for the boys, limit the life of this generation further.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e23943	Next came Mr Reinhold Einwallner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e23964	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the television screens and wherever you follow this meeting! You've been seeing a show between FPÖ and ÖVP for over 2 hours now, which is probably looking for the same thing. They have been proving – both parties – responsibility for over 2 hours in the fight against this pandemic, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] On the one hand, the FPÖ speaks of separation camps with incredible speeches that speak of stasi methods. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ, Plan B is probably embarrassing. What else can't be if that's your plan B. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] On the other hand, the ÖVP, which operates far away from any strategy. The Chancellor speaks of how dangerous it is to be confused and insecure. – Mr Federal Chancellor, you are part of this uncertainty, you are part of this confusion! They help to make people insecure. Mr Bundeskanzler, what else is it if you are open to a dispute in the Federal Government on such a sensitive subject? This leads to human insecurity. That's the problem we have. Mr Health Minister, you stand up here today and say: Yes, we had a communication problem, and the Chancellor nods a little bit. - A communication problem?- Oh, my God! The whole government is a communication problem in this pandemic. People don't know what's going on and what's not. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another point of uncertainty is your head of state, Mr. Federal Chancellor, your heads of state who act with anti-scientific statements. It's unworthy when national leaders act like this. [[Call the ÖVP: Please!]] Science now needs appreciation, ladies and gentlemen, and not statements like those of Haslauer and Stelzer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But it's always the same thing with the ÖVP: If she doesn't have any solutions, she's looking for the guilty. This time the experts who have warned are suddenly the guilty. The fact is: Our problem is that from the beginning there was no general government crisis management in this crisis – that was from the beginning, from the beginning of the crisis to the problem – that there was no national end of the shoulder, because the former Federal Chancellor believed that he was the sole healer and could solve this crisis alone with staging. But it doesn't work. There is a need for a common approach in the fight against crises – only that can work. [[Call the ÖVP: Please!]] Posters are not enough, Federal Chancellor. It would have needed a vaccination campaign in the summer, but the means for that would have been shortened. And that's the responsibility you have to bear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is not enough to be a government partner and, even if you are the smaller government partner, to assist silently here. The Minister of Health is helpless and watching the drift. We don't do well either. The result is obvious. It has already been said: Unfortunately, there was no mention of the much quoted and announced “Summer as at the time. ” Summer's gone back to sleep. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] We have not used the opportunities in the summer and result in a terrible autumn and a terrible winter, which will have serious consequences for the economy and the population in our country. This is your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e24063	I call Mr Werner Saxinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e24085	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Minister and Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The slogan is: The vaccination is training for the immune system and the gate to the end of the pandemic. The vaccination – which we have heard many times today – protects against severe diseases and, in the event of an infection, usually leads to a mild course. This has to be clear to everyone, including the numerous hobby virologists and experts who sometimes have problems writing the word pandemic at all. [[Abg. Stefan: How do you write that?]] The plan B of the FPÖ, which we have been presented here, is for me as a doctor B like threatening, B like banal, B like embarrassing, B like bizarre. [[Abg. Stefan: What now: banal or...?]] Unfortunately, where FPÖ is strong, the vaccination rate is also correspondingly low in many regions. That's a fact. The FPÖ – which I have experienced in recent months – is the force that comes against the Covid vaccination. [[Abg. Deimek: Is that a trauma?]] Do you know which two countries around the world don't even immunize? – These are Eritrea and North Korea. Do you really want to get on with these states? [[In the case of the ÖVP, MEPs of the Greens and the Agg. Loacker.]] A week ago, 5,400 000 people were vaccinated in Austria. In 48,000 cases, vaccinations occurred, i.e., in 1,000 vaccines, nine people. Health Österreich GmbH has calculated what has caused the vaccination in the last eight months. A few numbers – they always call on numbers; these are facts, not fakes –: [[Abg. Worm: In short, the colleague said something else! You didn't watch that!]] In the last eight months, vaccination has prevented 19 203 hospital stays. The vaccination has prevented 6 200 stays at the intensive care centre and the vaccination has prevented 6 118 deaths. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Thank you to all those who have contributed. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs from Greens and NEOS.]] In the so-called Plan B, there is a lot of nonsensory in it, “Nonstop Nonsens” I would like to say, a popular series of Dieter Hallervorden many years ago. [[Abg. Belakovich: This is your level!]] In particular, Klubobmann Kickl has been the leader of the torments: the sage of the invulnerable immune system, for example. – It's completely meaty to the virus. How foolish this statement is, he sees himself now. I wish him all the best at this point, I hope he watches. Further recommendations from chief physician and Dr. Google Nobel Prizewinner Kickl: the bitter substances – that was very entertaining if not so sad – then vitamin C, zinc, paracetamol, ibuprofen. [[Abg. Belakovich: Laughing is the best medicine!]] He really shot the bird with the worm. I can tell you, I'm a dermatologist, I use the worm agent Ivermectin against the crab mites very often. I have a lot of experience with it. [[Abg. Belakovich: Aha! But a human drug?- Oh, my God!]] If it really is to help, then you have to take it in doses where liver damage and kidney damage occur. [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] So I'll call him now when he watches: Please be silent, Mr Kickl, Mr Obergscheit, on medical issues! I'm telling you as a doctor, as a politician and as a citizen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] At the former philosophy student Kickl: Argentum est sermo, aurum silentium est – speech is silver, silence is gold. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] To you, colleagues from the FPÖ: If you have a spark of grace and sense of responsibility, let your roaring chiefs cry out quietly! It's going to be in Nirwana if you don't support him. Let us see together that we continue to increase the vaccination rate! Let's forget Kickl and Co! [[Abg. Belakovich: Have you...?]] The vaccination is the gate to the end of the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e24265	This was the last speech in the debate on this urgent request, in which I would also like to call for moderation in terms of expression, but the debate on this is now over. No one has made any mention of this any more. The debate is closed. Before we come to the votes, I ask the clubs if we can proceed immediately. - Well, then I'll go like that. We come to the vote on the self-employed amendment 2011/A(E) tabled by Dr.in Belakovich, colleagues on ‘No discrimination against healthy people – Yes to Plan B against Corona’. If you agree to this request, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues on the failure of confidence in the Federal Government and the State Secretary in accordance with Art. 74 para. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act and Art. 78 para. 2 in conjunction with Art. 74 para. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the need for such a decision by the National Council pursuant to paragraph 2 of the Constitutional Treaty to have half of all Members present, I also expressly note it. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to the objectionable motion for a resolution. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gerald Loacker, colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection in accordance with Art. 74 para. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. Since this decision of the National Council, as referred to in paragraph 2 of the Constitutional Treaty, requires the presence of half of all Members, I expressly note it. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to the motion for a renunciation to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Fiona Fionadier, colleagues and colleagues on 'Impen in the Pharmacy'. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have approved this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, rejected. This concludes the voting process, and I am continuing on the agenda. [[17:52:50]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e24354	I will resume the negotiations on points 3 and 4 of the agenda. The next speaker was Mr Maximilian Köllner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e24378	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister for Sports is not here, we have heard it, but I hope he listens, because since the meeting of the Sports Committee here last week, a lot has been done in sport. Currently and yesterday in the media: the resignation of the former Nordic combinationr Felix Gottwald from his position as Chairman of the Austrian Commission for Breitensport. However, I do not want to judge or even comment on this resignation, it is to be noted – and the Minister of Sport has said so too. However, there has already been a public uprising on last Friday as well as on nothing by some professional associations on the re-separation of sports funding. Obviously, the smaller clubs are particularly disadvantaged. So you can see it in the world of sports. I nevertheless see this current thunderstorm in Austrian sports policy positively, because we finally have a public and proper stage to address the problems in sports. The root of all problems is, no, the dear money. Austrian sport alone has lost a total of 90 million euros since 2010. This is more than an annual budget of special sports promotion. “Inflation eats up the funding cake,” said sports-austria President Hans Niessl. Thus, the 2022 budget for sport cannot even be called more of the same. What you're doing here is really a juggling: because a few euros more, there a few euros less, once the focus on inclusion, once on women's projects. This is all very important, but at the end of the day, the money will only be pushed from one budget item to the next, and the money will of course be missing elsewhere. We're talking about pandemic control, we're talking about sports strengthening the immune system, the mental fitness, and yet there's no more money for school and wide sports, no more money for the comprehensive implementation of the daily movement unit in schools. And at this very point, I would expect a Minister of Sports and wish that he would naturally take control of the Minister of Education, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance and say: Hey, let's go now, let's do something together! We invest in the future of our children together, across borders, and this makes us pay for it in the long term! – You would have to do this if you had a serious interest in improving this unbearable situation on a sustainable basis, otherwise it would only remain with this government in the case of lip confessions. I therefore appeal again to the Minister of Sports: Please sit down with your colleagues! Continue so that investments in sports are not seen as a problem, but as a part of the solution! It is a simple national economic bill: More sport, more exercise in schools relieves our health system in the long term and promotes mental performance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, the means to promote movement and sport must finally be increased overall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e24442	Next speaker: Mr Christoph Zarits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e24467	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Estimated Volksanwälte! President of the Court of Auditors! Mr Köllner should have been very busy with the budget, at least he should have read it, but it is remarkable that he did not understand the budget. We have budgeted 156 million euros for sport, 156 million euros for organized sports in Austria. We have 14 000 clubs in Austria. We have 2.1 million people who organize in the sports clubs that run sports in the sports clubs. 570 000 children are active in sports and thus have a meaningful leisure activity in the clubs. Sports as a life school: The children learn to accept rules. The children also learn how to deal with our society, how to deal with their own comrades and how to deal with the competitor. Ladies and gentlemen! The last few months were not easy, no question, the last months were certainly also marked by very, very difficult decisions by us, and the decisions we have made, which we have It's not easy for us. We have always made the decisions we have made in agreement with organized sports, because in organized sports the experts and these have also consulted us in advance of our decisions and they have also contributed to our decisions. Of course, we were always in a field of tension between health prevention on the one hand and the understandable desire of athletes for movement on the other, but the most important thing for our decisions and for us as responsible politicians is the health of the population and the health of athletes. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Prammer.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] The budget: EUR 156 million for general sports promotion and special sport promotion. We want to strengthen the honorary office. We want the daily movement unit to be finally introduced. The Minister of Sport has also explained that we are very, very far. Moving children healthy, more money is available for this. Sport for integration, sport for inclusion, that's what we want. With the Sportbudget 2022, we want to give the sport planning security, which gives sport safety in a difficult phase. We're on a good way. Together with the umbrella and professional associations, we will also come through the next weeks and months and find solutions together. What it takes is that we make sensible decisions, observe the epidemiological situation closely and always allow as much movement as possible and decide only as much of restrictions as necessary. I think we're on the right path: 156 million euros for sport, for the roof and professional associations, for the clubs, for the athletes. I would ask for approval of the 2022 budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e24534	Next speaker: Mr Friedrich Ofenauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e24555	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Madam President. Mr. Volksanwälte! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers and Seers! In particular, the Corona pandemic has shown the importance of strong institutions, from the top institutions, the Federal President, legislation, government, jurisdiction, especially the administrative and constitutional court, which we are negotiating here in particular in these sub-divisions, to the public officials in all areas of the public service, to which I would like to express a warm thanks for their use here. They all contribute to a functioning community. I think that in a situation like this one, we all have to ask ourselves what we can contribute to a functioning community and whether there is also a certain commitment to make a contribution to it. In particular, I wonder whether it is not all our obligation, whether it is a task of the Community and of the community, to deal with this pandemic together. In 2022, as a national council member, the return to the House will be a milestone for us as part of the federal legislation. Theophil Hansen, when he began to build this building in the 1870s, had much thought. Democracy and participation were rather new and unusual at the time; today is participation the population a command of the hour. This takes into account the expansion of the visitor centre and the possibility of attending Parliament meetings. The Parliamentary Directorate is further expanded into a centre of competence and communication for parliamentarism and democracy for the interested public. Especially the meaning and form language of the building is very interesting and could perhaps also be used as a guideline today, because by using various building materials the architect has set a sign, a symbol of the interaction of all forces when it comes to achieving the best for a country. The view of details is also important, not only to the snake symbols or to the Pallas Athens, which is at least a sign not only for wisdom, but also for strategy, peace and war – so it is a certain contradiction united in it. Parliament was imitated by a Greek temple because freedom and, above all, legality were held high at that time. In this context, of course, it is also important that Parliament is the place where speeches are held, emotional speeches are given, and these emotions are also lived. The rosy bandits should point out, however, that despite all emotions it is necessary to control the passions. If I hear the statements of some colleagues here – Mr Hafenecker, for example, has meant that the parliamentary discourse is no longer sufficient and one has to call for demonstrations – then I do not want to agree on the right of demonstration – on the contrary – but I am wondering if the road will be instrumentalized, and then, I think, it will be worrying. Nevertheless, we should remember to control our passions, for that would be essential in turbulent times when it is important to fight the pandemic together. To this end, I would like to call: more discretion and less excitement, more together and less one another.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e24601	Next speaker: Mr Johann Weber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e24622	“You live the sport! He is healthy and liked us hoat.” – This is the text of a well-known song by a famous representative of the Austropop. Madam President. High government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! But especially appreciated ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! A healthy mind lives in a healthy body, we have already heard today. Sports is not only good for physical fitness, it tightens the mind and helps to better master difficult situations. We always experience that again and again, we need it again and again. Sports and exercise are the basis for a healthy lifestyle, which is true in all ages. From preschool to old age, sport has a meaning and a corresponding right. Here, school sports – I am also a teacher – are of particular importance. I would like to take the opportunity to thank all my colleagues who teach sports in schools. They keep trying to move the young people to bring the children in to the sport, and this is a very great work and also a merit of the colleagueship who is doing this. I would also like to thank all the volunteers – and this has already been mentioned – in the various organizations and associations, no matter whether this is a coach or a canteeneur – there are the most diverse activities in a club – and they all deserve a great deal of thanks. Thank you very much also to the Minister for Finance that he was able to provide 156 million euros for sport, which was also mentioned by a previous speaker. A total of around 69.5 million euros for general sports promotion in 2022 and 80 million euros for the special sport promotion. A further 6.5 million euros are planned for large-scale sports projects and the Bundessportanstalt GmbH. This amounts to just this EUR 156 million. However, I would like to address a second area, which is a very important area throughout the sports scene: The Austrian top athletes with or without disabilities should be positioned in the world class. This is a very important point that we need to look at, because the top athletes are those who have a certain role model for our children, the youth and the whole of the field, and that is very important. Finally, I would just like to say: Live the sport! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e24664	Next speaker: Mr Lukas Brandweiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e24689	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Above all, however, dear spectators at home in front of the screens! Sport is an important part of the life of many people in Austria. About 64 percent of them run sports once a week. Only 5 percent are never active in sports. Of course, our goal must be to inspire even more people for movement and sport, and this is reflected in the current budget. We want to further promote top sports in Austria, so that we can continue to enjoy success at European Championships, World Championships, but also at Olympic Games together in the future. [[Abg. Steger: That's something new!]] For example, we invest 1 million euros in youth performance sports and more than 1.8 million euros in sports medicine and science. Even top athletes such as Gregor Schlierenzauer or David Alaba have once started small, and therefore the professional and roof associations with their countless associations are so important. In this area, we have ensured funding of 33.5 million euros for professional associations and more than 25.5 million euros for umbrella organisations. [[Abg. Steger: Something new too!]] Especially in the health crisis and there are, of course, enormous challenges for sport now, so I am glad that we quickly provided help and supported our clubs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call of the abg. Steger.]] In my homeland Lower Austria, this happened with the umbrella for sports clubs. My thanks to the competent sports councillor Jochen Danninger, but also our head of state Johanna Mikl- Leitner. The NPO support fund was also particularly important at the federal level, with which we supported the associations financially. My thanks go to Minister of Sports and Deputy Chancellor Werner Kogler for the good cooperation. Together with our coalition partner and the umbrella associations, we have created the sport bonus to win back lost members again, but also now new ones for the first time. As a member of the People's Party, it is, of course, important for me to thank the communities that are constantly supporting and promoting their sports clubs. My greatest thanks today, however, are to the countless volunteer helpers, trainers, officials in the clubs that care for the youth who care for the athletes, they delight. I've been able to take a picture of this in the last few weeks at many sports events. Thank you for that! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] For me, a life without clubs is not imaginable, even because I was already active in countless clubs and still is, therefore my request and my appeal: Now we need to look forward and again inspire our fellow people for more sport and movement. That's where each of us can make a contribution. I only signed up for the New Year's run last Saturday, and tomorrow in the morning before the session in Parliament, we start training. Anyone who wants to walk is welcome.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e24758	Next speaker: Mr Kurt Egger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e24779	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated Federal Government! President of the Court of Auditors! Dear prosecutors, I would almost have said. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Listeners via live stream! Sports is not only important for youth, for people as a whole, but sports is also a major economic factor in Austria. More than 13 billion euros, and the Institute for Sports Economics has noted this, sport contributes to the added value of our country. The 230 000 employees are active in the field of sport. These two figures are conspicuous across Europe, and we are thus in the forefront of the 28 states of the European Union. In order for this to remain the same, it will continue to invest in the sports infrastructure, in sporting events and in large sports events. I am very happy about this because that is the basis for the sports clubs. Sports clubs are the best life school for our children, and all of Europe envys us about it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Investment in sport means: Sports sites instead of hospital beds. Every euro invested there is well established. Sports associations promote cohesion, endurance and health. We need all of this very urgently. It is also very important that, in addition to other budget items, the budget in the field of school sports is further expanded. Much is already being invested in promoting sport in schools. I can also give you an up-to-date example: My daughter is on HLW Schrödingerstraße. She has now become the training manager in the third class and at the beginning of the fifth class will make the training a fitness and leisure coach; just such a thing will be extended. In this sense: Please agree to the sports budget!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e24818	I am now no longer able to speak on this subject, so I will also end the discussions on it. [[18:14:53]] UG 32: Art and culture
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e24840	We come to the next sub-division, namely 32: art and culture. First of all, Mrs Katharina Kucharovich is speaking on this sub-division. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e24867	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs State Secretary! We now come to art and culture. I would like to say in advance, Mrs State Secretary, that it is really good that the budget for art and culture has been increased by 60 million euros. It is good and important that the basic fee of the Bundestheater and Bundesmuseen is increased, that the children's opera is equipped with additional resources and that the Festspielhäuser in Salzburg and in Bregenz can be renovated. That's good. At the same time, however, I have to hold on and ask: Of these 60 million euros, 50 million have been fixed for the projects mentioned. Where, for example, does the money remain for individual funding, for fair pay and for corona measures? Where is the money for help in the current and insanely acute corona situation? We do not find any help in the budget, Mrs. State Secretary. Last year, 60 million euros were needed from the Covid pot, which has just been included in the regular budget. But what happens now in the face of these horrendous increases in infection? Where can artists dock in the future, where cultural intermediaries, where cultural workers, where artisans? We do not find any new Covid support funds. You know, all the help has run out or run out at the end of the year, and we're in the middle of the fourth wave, which has taken on an incredible dimension that we didn't know before. We also know that the utilization in the houses, whether small or larger, is very different and strongly variable. The maximum levels of infections we have every day will not raise the number of viewers. We also know that a very broad group of artists is already at the lower income limit, and unfortunately, again and again – compared to other sectors disproportionately – scratches the poverty line. And help for 2022, I emphasize it again, are not to be found in the budget. There are two ways: Either the corona measures eat the EUR 60 million to which the budget has been increased, immediately, and that soon, or there are no funds for support measures. What is going to happen, Mrs. State Secretary? I really want to talk to you, and you also said that in the negotiations with the Minister for Finance, you will get your hands on Corona aid, if necessary. I really appeal to this point, because there is nothing to be found in the current 2022 budget. Another important project not only according to the government program, but also for you, I know, is finally to establish fairness in the payment of artists. I'm absolutely here with you. A fair payment especially for women in the industry would be urgent and really such from time to time, for example through fees that are on the table, there are proposals, or the establishment of collective contracts with the federal museums, or funding linked to better payment, just as Vienna has already introduced and makes it, or also a strong copyright law. Again: How is this to work with a 10 million euro delta? Of the 60 million euros 50 have already been granted fixed. So we only have more than 10 million euros. How is all this going to work, Mrs. State Secretary? How can you establish or prevent a better payment or poverty? I do believe that you are pursuing these objectives, but unfortunately you are not convinced that this is the same for the entire Federal Government, otherwise we would find other figures in the budget. Summary: Good thing that there are 60 million euros more, bad that with a daily infection count of over 10,000 no covid help can be found in the budget, and bad also that there is no fixed amount in the budget for the implementation of Fair Pay. Finally, an urgent request in the sense of the artists: Finally, let's put in a direct compensation with Google and Co! It is obvious, Mrs State Secretary, dear cultural speaker Blimlinger, that it is now obvious with the implementation of the European Union's Copyright Law Directive. This would be in the sense of the artists and would make an important contribution to Fair Pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e24927	Next speaker: Mrs Eva Blimlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e24949	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! First of all, I really am grateful to the Secretary of State Andrea Mayer, who has succeeded in achieving the highest art and culture budget in the history of Austria – I have already said this today. It's 60 million euros more than before. And the 10 million euros are not, as my previous speaker said, the total amount that is intended for the free scene or for artists and women artists, but this money is available in addition to what has already been paid. It can be more and more for art and culture, but such an increase has not reached any of Andrea Mayer's predecessors in the last 20, 25 years, and I really want to thank myself for this increase. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to take two areas out, namely the renovation of the Wiener Volkskundemuseum, partly with funds from the EU's reconstruction fund. This museum belongs to the city of Vienna, while the staff is employed by the federal government. It is about rehabilitating the building of this, as I mean, extremely interesting museum in the heart of Vienna and bringing it to a good future. This is borne by an association, and it is really necessary to do that. I am particularly pleased that this is now being done. I am also pleased that the Praterateliers are being renovated in this context. The Praterateliers are a very important place for visual artists. Perhaps you can make them publicly available once they have been renovated to show the works of the visual artists. The fair pay process is therefore not quantified, Mrs Kucharovich, because it takes place in different areas and cannot therefore be seen as an individual value. This concerns, for example, the collective agreements in which, of course, we do not interfere. I am already insisting that this is still a matter of negotiation between employers and employees and that we have not lost anything there. So there is money in the various areas, and so there is no number in there. This has been started this year and will be implemented over the next one or two years. Of course, we very much hope that the negotiations between the two negotiating partners for the collective agreements in the Federal Museums will be concluded as soon as possible. I also need the renovation of the Bregenz Festival House. That is, I think, already in a good way or almost finished. It is necessary to clean up these art and culture tankers again and again, if you want to do so. That's a Great project on the Festspielhaus. I'm glad that we managed to get money for it and put it into practice. Of course, it is important to strengthen art and artists above all. Corona aids are of course not in the budget, they were never, they were always budgeted separately. Now we have to look at how things continue, and as I have said today: We'll see what's possible or what's not possible, and see that there's more help for the artists. But allow me a sentence: Dizzying numbers of visitors, for example in theaters, not only have to do with Corona, but sometimes also with the selection or staging of pieces. Corona's not to blame for everything, but much, I have to say. By the way, I am in favour of the change of name to Richard-Wadani-Kaserne.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e25016	Next speaker: Mr Volker Reifenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e25037	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Who thinks there's nothing wrong with it as an opposition politician? A good example of this is that in recent years we have regularly applied for an increase in the base fee at federal theatres and federal museums. At the meetings of the Committee on Culture, these applications have always been postponed and are even rejected in this plenary session a year ago. Politics is just the “drilling of hard boards”, as Max Weber once meant true. Mrs. State Secretary, you told me a year ago that the increase in the base pay for the federal museums and the federal theatres will only come when the Corona crisis is over. So I am all the more pleased that the government has apparently given up our pressure and will increase the base payments already next year. Since this has worked so well with the last year's motion for a resolution, I would also like to try again this year and bring back a motion for a resolution which the government groups in the committee have already postponed. We hope that this request will be implemented in one year's budget debate in plenary, even if you do not now agree with the content. This time I am dealing with the long overdue introduction of a collective contract with the Federal Museums. Mr Blimlinger has already referred to the subject in advance, that is, you are talking about it yourself, but you are not concluding on this issue. For 20 years, this has been a topic – yes, ladies and gentlemen, you have heard it right: for 20 years. The works councils of the Federal Museums here point to the fact that a collective contract is missing, and make pressure for job-law improvements. Therefore, we will drill the hard boards further, and I hereby make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that we owe this to the employees from politics. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, however, I would like to address another issue. In Salzburg, my home country, a new festival president is being sought – President in, yes: A man doesn't even come into question from the outset. There are 32 high-ranking candidates from Germany and abroad. But we would not be in Austria if this whole, supposedly so objective tendering process were not a pure eye-catching game. It is an open secret that for these prestigious posts, only a woman from the ÖVP environment would be in question anyway. And so by chance Brigitta Pallauf has applied for the Salzburg Landtag President, set by the ÖVP. The Turkish-black People's Party seems to have learned nothing from the most recent post-chacheries around Thomas Schmid and Co. Mrs. State Secretary, you are in the middle of it, because your section head is the chairman of the Festival Board, which will decide unanimously on the successor of Helga Rabl-Stadler; [[Abg. Gerstl:... apply!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] So your section head has a veto right. If it is a truly objective decision-making process, then at the end of the day any other name can come out, but not that of the black country president. Therefore, Mrs State Secretary, I bet with you – and in an objective application procedure the quota 1 : 31 stands against me – for a bottle of good Austrian red wine that Brigitta Pallauf will become the next President of the Salzburg Festival. I hope I'm gonna lose this bet, but I don't think so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl.]] [[18:29]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e25179	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Maria Großbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e25206	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! In these days there are also good news once, and the good news is clearly the cultural budget 2022. It is even a historically good cultural budget, I would say, one like it has never been before. There is an increase of 61 million euros. I congratulate you very much, Mrs State Secretary! Thank you for your commitment! We have a cultural budget of 557.1 million euros, a plus of 61 million euros. This budget with this additional EUR 61 million is therefore not only structurally important for art and culture, but also, I would say, a very, very strong, clear commitment of politics, the Republic to art and culture and to their importance for our country. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The fact that art and culture are important, among other things, has also led us to see the pandemic clearly and hard again: for our society as a valve for feelings, for mental health, for human beings, even for social co-existence. But art and culture are also, as the pandemic has shown, an economic factor. The cultural sector contributes about 3% to GDP and has a value-added of almost 10 billion euros, so in many ways it is a very essential factor. I would like to take a few points from the cultural budget: Yes, of course there is another budget for the free scene. It is quite, very important that the federal government also promotes the free scene, but there are also very much the federal states and the municipalities that also have a significant share of cultural promotion in our country. If my colleague, Kucharovich, says, only 10 million euros, I have to answer: In the past, the entire cultural budget was increased by 10 million euros, now we have 61 million euros, and this is excellent, because of course we also need investment in the structural substance. The Festspielhäuser Bregenz and Salzburg must be renovated. These are long-term projects, which can now also be implemented, which were very, very, very, very important for a very long time. The festival houses are also employers, they are workplaces for a lot of people, are also important for tourism, which hopefully will come back in full bloom soon. A milestone is certainly the basic fee of the Bundestheater and Bundesmuseen – the increase in the basic salary, you really have to say – because hundreds of people also work in these houses, whose salaries and wages also need to be increased and adjusted. To the current situation: Yeah, the pandemic's not over. We are also aware and clear, and the Secretary of State has repeatedly stressed this, even today. The corona aid was never part of the regular budget, it is not now. I think it has already been proved that the Secretary of State is particularly committed to Corona aid. There were 13 support tools for art and culture only. I would like to draw up a number, even if it does not come from the budget, but from a report: By the end of September of this year, bridging funding for independent artists, which has been processed through the SVS, has paid 134.7 million euros to freelance independent artists. We are aware that this is still a difficult situation. The Secretary of State has already said today that economic aid continues to be negotiated and, of course, art and culture belong to the whole spectrum of our society. We want culture to continue to take place, even if the next few weeks may become difficult. We need culture, we want culture, and therefore also my call and my request to you all who watch you: Please go to the vaccination! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e25267	Next speaker: Mrs Julia Seidl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e25288	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. State Secretary! Yes, thank you very much for this budget! Today we have heard from colleagues that the cultural budget has been increased. The NEOS Group is also pleased about this, and I am also pleased about it. For us, however, the question – and of course this is always the second side of the medal: This budget, which at the end of the day is indeed an increase which has not already been pre-planned, is where it is supposed to arrive, which is largely in the communities where the funding for cultural events is granted. This is not in the big style: In the last three years, I have worked on a great many applications for support. There is a lot going on in the municipalities and in the federal states, where these promotions for events, for cultural professionals, are mainly spent. The question is whether it's where it comes from. This budget includes a few long-term NEOS demands, for example the increase of the basic salary – I think it is always useful if there is pressure from many political groups that something is happening – as well as the topic of the art and cultural strategy, for which the launch process has now also fallen and its process should continue in 2022. The increase in the base fee for the Federal Museums and the Federal Theatre was long overdue. We have, of course, also looked at what the continuation of the budgets will be like. Unfortunately, what you have to complain about: It would have been better if there had been an automatic valorisation for this basic fee to enable long-term planning. Long-term planning is just as important for art and culture creators as for many other areas of public life. Finally, as already mentioned, the launch of an art and cultural strategy was launched, whose work should continue in 2022. It is difficult for us that there is no specific defined financial framework in the budget to carry out this process, or that it should be communicated and indicated transparently. In addition, we demand that this process be accompanied by a communication tool, where everyone and everyone can look: What's planned? What are the current intermediate results?, and that online, best very simple and low-sleep in the form of a website, to communicate. This also increases transparency and attention. We must not forget, of course, the following things about the increase in this cultural budget: If you look closely, you can see, as has already been mentioned, that many, many millions of this increase have already been granted, including for large projects, construction projects such as the renovation of the Bregenz and Salzburg Festival Houses, or the project of the children's opera, which we also very much welcome. On the other hand, the implementation of Fair Pay is of course very, very difficult, because you don't have any clues what it would mean if you were really going through Fair Pay completely. Is this 5 percent? Is it 10 percent? How much more budget is needed in order to pay fairly for artists and cultural workers, and what guidelines are to be implemented in this project? Thus, after deduction of these large-scale projects and these funds already allocated, there is no longer much left. It is these 10 million euros that have already been mentioned – this is also due to our bill – that are added. There is another question: Is the money really where it is supposed to come from, namely also in the free art and culture scene, not only in the “great high culture” – under quotation marks – but also in associations and theatres and artists who work in the communities? In our opinion, we need one thing even more urgent in the future, and this too is a long-standing demand: The dual promotion of art and cultural enterprises must stop. There is a need for greater transparency and fairness in the promotions in order to avoid these double-tracks. At the end of the day, more money is left because you save bureaucracy. Overall, we are of course pleased that there is the appreciation for art and cultural enterprises. In Corona times, we have seen that the satellite account – that is, how much value added is achieved in the round, when you move a euro into art and cultural establishments – has initially been difficult, because there is too little valid data. We would like to point out once again that the creation of this satellite account, where valid data on the level of value added can be provided, is urgently necessary. We hope that this will be implemented in Bälden. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e25343	Now Mrs State Secretary Andrea Mayer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e25365	Madam President. Honourable Members to the National Council! Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Federal Government has decided to take a historic and forward-looking step with the current cultural budget of the Federal Government. The budget reaches a historic peak of EUR 557 million, which means an increase of EUR 61 million. This is a strong commitment to the Austrian art and cultural landscape, to the contemporary artists who live and work in Austria. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] This is an important sign, especially in this still very troubled period. The Austrian State commits itself to a state financing of art and culture. Only this continues to grant freedom for the Austrian artists. What is planned with this additional 61 million euros? – I would like to repeat it again, because it has never been possible to increase the basic fee for the Bundestheater and the Bundesmuseen at the same time. It was important to me, however, that this happens in one step, because it is now important in this difficult time to be able to really secure these large institutions and institutions of the federal government, which also suffer very much from the changing numbers of visitors. 11.4 million euros are part of the EU's reconstruction plan. Our focus is on an investment fund for air-conditioned cultural enterprises, a digitalisation offensive in the field of cultural heritage, as well as the renovations of the Volkskundemuseum and the Praterateliers. I should also like to stress that, in Austria, it was possible to implement the European Parliament's recommendation that 2% of the funds allocated to individual countries in the EU's reconstruction plan should be devoted to art and culture. Not many countries have implemented this, but we in Austria have. This also shows the importance of art and culture in Austria for the Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Then there is 10.6 million euros in additional art promotions in the field of contemporary art and the free scene. This also means an increase of around 10 percent in the funding of art. The theme of fair pay is of course the focus here. We will receive the results of our Fair Pay Gap study at the beginning of next year and will then be able to find out about the distribution of these funds. An important concern was also that we can continue all support increases from 2021. There was already an increase of 30 million euros in 2021. There were again 10 million for the free scene, where we were able to increase a lot, especially in the cultural initiatives. That too is guaranteed. The corona resources – which many have already found here – are not included in the regular budget, as I have often said last year. In the meantime, we have provided 380 million euros off the horizontal aid instruments specifically for the arts and culture sector. Some are still gripping and are an impressive sign that the Federal Government is supporting the arts and culture sector when it is necessary. Even now we have more difficult times in the cultural area, on the one hand because of the declining numbers of visitors, on the other hand, it is also really difficult for the stages and concert halls to create an event every day, because of the fact that the Corona Falls are also rising in the cultural enterprises. As always, however, cultural businesses are really trying to cope with the conditions and give their audience a great evening. I think you have to provide support there. On the one hand, I am in favour of good treatment of culture in all restrictions that may be necessary because of contact restrictions and, on the other hand, that this is consistent with restrictions in other areas. On the other hand, we are negotiating a continuation of economic aid, above all also a continuation of bridging funding for the free-lance artists, because that is when events have to be cancelled, always the first ones to fall around their income. It is now very important that we negotiate and also look closely at the areas in which support is needed. I would like to thank the honourable Member for his support for the motions for resolutions on matters which we have already planned and started, like the collective agreement and also the negotiation of another corona package for the federal museums. With regard to Salzburg Festival, I would like to say that I have, in any case, taken care of the fact that in the process, as with all the other personnel selection procedures for which I am responsible – as I am only responsible – there is a call for tender that a professional staff office is used to accompany the process and that there are also hearings before a selection is made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e25446	Next speaker: Mr Hermann Weratschnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e25467	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! The cultural budget secures cultural institutions, and the cultural budget, of course, only fully unfolds, has its full effect only when these events take place. Accordingly, the Corona situation also has an effect here, and we all hope that art and culture can happen in full effect next year. I believe that this is also dependent on a very high vaccination rate. So if the vaccination rate works, the culture can also work. Two areas have already been mentioned: on the one hand, the basic fee for the Federal Museums. That is, I think, a very important point: With 122.8 million euros, it is 8 million more. The Bundestheater also benefits, and I am particularly pleased – it has already been mentioned today – that the children's opera is also set in the budget. The basic fee for the Bundestheater is thus also increased. The manuscript of the coalition, the manuscript of the Government Convention is visible in the 2022 budget. In particular, I also mention the priorities of gender equality in awarding processes, the topic of film promotion, the promotion of book prices, literature and digitalisation. Not to be forgotten as a strong and important focus is the building culture and thus also the memory culture. It is an important budget with important priorities. One particular point is, of course, the fair pay measures. Fair Pay, however, is not only a task and challenge of the federal government, but it also needs close coordination with the federal states and municipalities. This is a need that we must focus on in the future. I believe that this is also an important process of participation in the cultural strategy, where this area can also work accordingly. As far as Corona is concerned, Mrs Kucharovich, there are, I believe, many examples where we can show that at the beginning we did not know everything, but that we have helped when we look back in retrospect. Especially at the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfonds, it was not clear at the beginning that four phases were needed. These four phases have been needed, and if further phases are needed in the future, there will also be these phases and these support rails. The same applies to the NPO fund. When the KSVF, the artist's social security fund, is taken out, almost 31 million euros were distributed in four phases. In the NPO Fund, there were 18 800 funding commitments, of which about 20 percent for cultural and art institutions at an average level of 18 000 euros. It can also be seen from the statistics of the NPO fund that it has actually been worked effectively: 98.7% of commitments are below 200 000 euros. This means that we are particularly promoting the small-structured club cultures, the art associations, also outside the regions. I think this is a very important area. In this sense, I am convinced that we will take action again, if necessary. Let's put a sign! Let us be active in enabling art and culture a lot of space to promote creative potential, to strengthen young art and culture creators in the regions, to give them a value – that is in the art and culture question, I believe, also very important – to dare new things, even if sometimes they are split down by guidelines! It is very important that there is freedom in art and culture, I think you have to keep that in mind. I wish art and culture, I wish ourselves in Parliament, especially the State Secretariat, that we continue to work in this sense. I am looking forward to the art and cultural strategy. I am looking forward to welcoming the Secretary of State for Art to the federal states too, to go out and talk to the people and to work accordingly for the art and culture in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e25519	Next speaker: Mrs Andrea Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e25540	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. State Secretary! The increase in the artistic and cultural budget is indeed a very encouraging element in this budget and it is certainly a personal success for you, Mrs State Secretary, to whom I would like to congratulate you. However, I would like to point out that, considering a longer period of time, there is a peak in 2022 and that it is then flattened again. In other words, I would like to encourage you, Mrs State Secretary, to work to ensure that what you have done this year becomes a sustainable development. This is very important for the Austrian art and culture scene. The basic fee for the Bundesmuseen and Bundestheater is something we particularly welcome. It is important and also a welcome point in this budget. It is also important – it has already been pointed out – that the increase of funds also means that funds go to the Bundestheater, the Bundesmuseen, the Salzburg Festival, the Bregenzer Festival. These are important institutions that we are proud of. They are an essential element of what makes us an Austrian cultural nation. That's good and right. However, it must be pointed out – my colleague Kucharovich has already done so – that the vast majority of the increase goes to her and thus remains a smaller part for the more existing, very lively free cultural and art scene. We also have these in Austria; it is an important element and we also want to support and promote them. Now to what moves us all in all areas, including art and culture, namely: How's the pandemic going on in our country? You have already pointed out: The numbers are currently out of the row. This, of course, also concerns art and cultural events. It is true that in recent times we have had a decrease in the number of visitors, because the people in all the security concepts that have been made and that work perfectly, have nevertheless exercised caution and are more restrained when attending events. It is more difficult to put events on your feet, even you have already pointed out. We don't know how it goes. We don't know if there will be closures. None of us want this – you don't want it, we don't want it – but it's not to be ruled out at this time that such developments are happening again. The budget, according to the motto that the pandemic is over, has been made, so to speak, spent its own propaganda. It has been pointed out that there has been a post-development of aid because it was not known better at first. But now we know more: We know that the pandemic is coming into waves, and we know what kind of support we will need. The important instruments that have been developed have run out or are just running out. Mrs. State Secretary, you have been very committed to this and have developed many important instruments. I assume that, when times get worse again – and we have to start taking care of it in time so that we can support it when it becomes necessary – you will be repressively negotiating in order to restore support for the art and culture scene.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e25579	Next speaker: Mr Martin Engelberg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e25601	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Spectator in front of the screens! I think this year was and is almost a fire test for the arts and cultural enterprises. In this very difficult time great things have been done. Most of the companies were incredibly innovative and committed, but at the same time very, very responsible concepts were created. It is therefore, I believe, a very successful fire test, on the one hand for the arts and cultural enterprises, on the other hand also for politics, the government and thus for society. Austria is a cultural nation, which now has a very nice increase in the cultural budget. I think that we must continue to show with such strong confessions how important this is for us in the future. Conversely, it is also an appeal to the people of Austria. I always like to remember that we are in an incredibly privileged situation. In Vienna, for example, we have such a collection of great cultural events, concerts, operas. In other countries, in other cities, there may be once a year the events we have to dozens of each evening. In this sense, this is also a encouragement and a reminder of all: Consumption Please see the excellent culture we have to offer in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e25631	Next speaker: Mr Hermann Brügl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e25652	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Museums and the Bundestheater are and have been trying since the beginning of the Corona crisis. They have developed incredible creativity and great ingenuity to master this crisis in their area. They have put great projects into effect – I am thinking only of the current Titian exhibition at the Kunsthistorisches Museum or of the fairy tale-like performance of the “Zauberflöte” in the Volksoper. The government measures, of course, also exert heavy pressure in the area of the Bundestheater and the Federal Museums. And although the budget has been increased – Mrs State Secretary, you have mentioned this, and it is also good that it has been increased – it lacks financial resources. A large part of this increase, which can also be said, is intended to cover the introduction of collective agreements, and the additional expenses incurred by Corona are not included. Therefore, this budget is in fact not sustainable either, as the “standard” also writes in a very good article. The federal museums need a fourth state aid package. “In all cases – and for all,” said the chairman of the directorial conference of the Federal Museums Katrin Vohland in September. The corona-related closures of the museums or the restrictions existing in spite of opening up have caused huge loss of revenue. I can only mention a few figures in terms of visitors – very unexpected numbers. In 2019 we had a record high. The Federal Museums recorded nearly seven million visitors. These figures were gridled in the basement in 2020: Nearly two million visitors were in the Federal Museums in 2020. The Albertina recorded a minimum of 64 per cent of visitors, the Belvedere being 80 per cent, the Museum of Art History minus 74 per cent, the Austrian National Library minus 75 per cent. To this end, the Chairman of the Directors' Conference Katrin Vohland says: In view of the continuing decline in visitors, the previous aid packages were not sufficient. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] These already existing massive revenue losses are still due to the unestimable negative effects of recently decided and expected Covid-19 restrictions. At the Federal Theatres, for example, we are now preparing for a 2G-plus rule, and that in times when tests are almost impossible, in which there are long queues in front of the test centres, in which waiting times for the result of 40, 44 hours are not rare, in which the tests in which the computer system is completely overburdened. Therefore, in this area, and especially for the Federal Museums and the Bundestheater, it simply needs financial support, an additional financial aid. In this context, I should like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[19:02]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e25837	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and properly put in place; it is under negotiation. MMag.a Dr.in Agnes Totter is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e25861	Austria is a great country of culture. Let us work together to ensure that this remains the same! Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Art and culture range from the smallest initiative in Austria, from the smallest project in the communities to the high culture on the large houses of the capitals of the state and the federal capital and at the festivals. Everywhere, it is great and very capable people who carry all this art and culture to create and make possible. For this use I say a warm thank you at this point. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The budget is the policy cast in numbers, one hears here again and again. In fact, when looking at the cultural budget, it turns out that Parliament and the Federal Government together are giving their best to strengthen Austria's cultural location. For the arts and culture sector, the Federal estimates 2022 provide around 557 million euros, and with this – we have heard today – the cultural budget is increasing by around 61 million euros. But where are 2022 special priorities set? – The Bundesmuseen and Bundestheater – we have already heard this – receive an increase in the base fee by 21 million euros. The Festspielhäuser Salzburg and Bregenz receive 14 million euros for the financing of renovation projects. 10 million euros are also intended for further funding. In this context, I should also like to ask the artists in the rural regions and communities to take account of the distribution of resources accordingly. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Prammer.]] I would particularly like to thank Minister of Finance Gernot Blümel, the responsible Minister of Culture and the Secretary of State for the support of artists during the pandemic. To give just one example: A total framework of up to 150 million euros was provided for the bridging fund for independent artists. By the end of September 2021, 134 million euros had already been paid to applicants. Austria has helped with these funds in the cultural field like hardly any other country. When I look at the financial framework by 2025, I'm sure we're on the right track. At this point, there are only a few priorities: Building culture programme, digitalisation offensive for cultural heritage and air-conditioned cultural enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen! The past difficult months have shown that even a pandemic like this does not change the creativity of the local artists. I personally am already looking forward to various contributions in the field of art and culture in 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e25921	First of all, the last speaker on subheading 32: Art and culture, is Hans Stefan Hintner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e25946	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Once again it is said that the increase in the cultural budget from 2020 to 2021 has made 30 million euros and is now 61 million euros. This is the largest cultural budget ever in the history of Austria. The problem of pandemic management has been highlighted by a number of previous speakers. There are different institutions, the different employment conditions. There are ensemble members, but there are also free actors, free artists. There are free stages, private stages, but there are also federal and national play venues. One of our own funding problems was the cultural enterprises that were and are organized by associations. Who would ever have thought that, for example, the Vienna singer boys would be in financial difficulties? Many cultural organizers are also organized through associations. I also thank the fact that we have found an instrument with the NPO fund to help many – and what is especially reaching my federal state and the town of Mödling, of course also the country of Lower Austria. It was and is also a time when one sees who benefits from what opportunities. There were, of course, different motivations and reasons why perhaps some house had closed, why some kind of cultural establishment was in store I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm However, it was also evident that some were more likely to get involved in tyrating against the government's cultural policy than in taking initiatives. Unfortunately Sepp Schellhorn is no longer in our house. I was able to bring him closer to the cultural city of Mödling in a few speeches. I am also proud to say that during this year we were able to record 13 000 visitors at the Mödlinger Kultursummer, around 3,000 more than last year, with an utilization of 80 to 90 percent – as an example I can mention the “History from the Vienna Forest” as the station theatre of the association for art and culture. I may mention Shakespeare in the Sala Terrena, the Teatro with “Little Women” and “Bambi”, the theatre in the bunker with “Utopia”, the Mödlinger Stadttheater, which has again presented a year plan with seven premieres. It was also up to us, at the city, at the municipalities, to define the necessary framework conditions. That was not cheap as far as the Corona measures were concerned. We are now also in the country of Lower Austria 2G. From tomorrow, theatre visits, concert visits will only be possible with mask. But how did Friedrich Schiller say? – “Art is a daughter of freedom.” And we used this freedom.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e26001	There are no more words available to me. The discussions on this subject have thus ended. [[19:09:28]] UG 12: Externals
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e26022	We are now entering Division 12: Outwards. To that end, Dr. Harald Türk. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e26050	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If we discuss the external budget, then of course it is not only about finances, but also about content. What does the foreign policy of Austria matter? . I say that two pillars of Austrian foreign policy are Austrian neutrality and human rights. – I am pleased that the Federal Minister is here too. Welcome! If one speaks of human rights and neutrality, Austria can, of course, contribute to peacekeeping and to conflict solutions in Europe and the world, on the basis of a pro-European policy, a clear commitment to Europe. The interests of Austria, of course, also concern Austria and, in particular, Vienna as the location of international meetings and conferences. What can Austria spend on foreign policy? . I can say that the current tactics, after decades of savings among foreign ministers in the field of RDPs, are not going to take up everything the short-term, one-and-a-half-year-long-acting FPÖ-near foreign minister has to do. We have had ÖVP Foreign Ministers since 1987, and the decades-long savings and cuts in foreign policy have, of course, greatly weakened the infrastructure from foreign missions to personnel. Of course, that would be the case. Austria is an export country. That is to say, foreign missions clearly also have economic interests of Austria. Austria is on the one hand a tourist country, and diplomacy and foreign policy can also be a bridge builder for Austrian tourism, and on the other hand, we are a classical export country, which means that the European Union is not a member of the European Union. For example, environmental technology, as well as many, many other areas – partly intangible areas such as culture, partly very material ones. There is a demand for foreign policy. Geopolitik has become more and more moving – I would even say: more dangerous – and there Austria is also called for. Active foreign policy should also have a bearing on the common European security and foreign policy in the sense of peacekeeping and peacekeeping. I am now going back to 1987: Until that year, the last Social Democratic Foreign Minister was in office. The era was, of course, still very strongly influenced by Bruno Kreisky – a German chancellor, who placed very much on an active, offensive, self-confident foreign policy. Since then, the level of personnel in this area has been substantially reduced, the Austrian missions abroad have been massively shortened, actually locked up. Peter Jankovitsch was then Foreign Minister, since then we have been dealing with decades of savings and cuts. I think it is necessary here again to have an offensive strategy – and this, of course, also concerns the finances and resources of Austrian foreign policy. I am pleased that there is now another Austrian embassy in Oman. Our messages are also important contact points for Austrian citizens abroad – not only if they have problems, but also then. I would say that it would also be strategically very wise to think of an Austrian mission in Uzbekistan, a developing state in Central Asia. What I don't want is laptop ambassadors for Austria – ambassadors who are sitting in Vienna, who are supposed to cost very little and do their network work via laptop. That's too little, that's not really efficient diplomacy. Mr. Federal Minister, please also use your good network in France. The French EU Presidency is coming. Macron has said that dialogue with Africa should become a priority of the French EU Presidency. It would be a good approach for Austria to pursue more foreign policy in both European and global politics and to turn to Africa as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e26105	The next speaker is Dr. Reinhold Lopatka. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e26129	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The European Union is surrounded by something like a ring of fire, surrounded by a ring of crisis hosts. It is all the more important that we create a common foreign policy, and I am therefore very grateful to honourable Members for his constructive contribution, which is borne by the matter. When we look around us, we see that dictator Lukashenko in Belarus deliberately employs people to put pressure on the European Union, especially Poland, but also Lithuania. Many of us have already forgotten that since 2014 in Ukraine – especially in two regions, in Luhansk and in Donetsk – at least 10,000 people have lost their lives. In the previous year, 7 000 people were killed in Bergkarabach in the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan within three months. The Scharmuttel will continue, only this week. In Syria, five million people are fleeing abroad, and there are 6.7 million internally displaced people. In Libya, ten years after the fall of Gaddafi, there is continuing chaos, foreign military forces in the country. Maybe it comes to elections, we don't know. Afghanistan, Myanmar, Ethiopia, I am not going to finish the list of countries with conflicts. And then the major crises are added: the corona crisis – not at all overcome. What did Glasgow bring about with regard to the climate crisis? – An extremely cumbersome judgment will be handed down to this effect. Sustainable solutions are required and this can only be done by negotiation. Vienna has already been mentioned as one of the four seats of the UN, but also as a place of negotiation. Austria can do a lot and Austrian foreign policy can contribute a lot. We have 40 international organizations, such as the Atomic Energy Authority, with us. The Atomic Energy Authority alone employs 2,500 people. They have addressed outside representations. Ladies and gentlemen, 120 bilateral and 197 multilateral representations are with us in Vienna. Vienna is indeed a centre of dialogue, diplomacy and also multilateral work. We should be aware of this. It was therefore right to decide on the law of office – this is what we did this year. It is true that the budget for this area will be increased by EUR 4 million. I hope that we will agree on this across all sides of the party. A lot of work is to be done – not just in this country. You mentioned it, we were in the process of monitoring elections in Uzbekistan – an emerging country. Mr Kassager was there, the new Foreign Minister was already there. Yes, it is desirable to have as many representations as possible, and that we jointly support the foreign office when it comes to the budget. There is no contradiction, but of course there are also financial limits. What I want to say with this is: The most important thing in foreign policy is of course to represent Austria's interests as far as possible abroad. I believe that with Federal Chancellor Alexander Schallenberg, who is not here right now, and with Foreign Minister Michael Linhart, we have two qualified, experienced diplomats. Finally, I can only say one thing: I am firmly convinced that Austria's foreign policy is in good hands with the Foreign Minister – we support him together!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e26181	Next speaker is MMMag. Dr. Axel Kassinger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e26205	Mr President. Mr. Foreign Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Tür and Mr Lopatka have already noted a number of points, on which we have the same opinion. I would like to start by referring to Austria's external representation in the world, to the Austrian embassies and consular representations that do absolutely good work, and I share the view of colleagues that there should be increased budgetary facilities. Only the question of resource allocation always arises. It is clear that the funds are limited, because we must set priorities – and we have different opinions on the priorities. However, I would like to say once again: The Austrian representations abroad are doing excellent work; I am coming around a bit. This is also true, and you will be surprised now, for the external offices of the Chamber of Commerce, which, for the most part, do very good work. Where we are probably not going to agree, there is fundamental access to development assistance/cooperation, and in particular to the extent and intensity of the resources used for it. Of course, the Greens are very, very happy, happy and happy with this budget, which provides for some drastic increases in corresponding funds – foreign disaster funds, development cooperation et cetera. We liberals believe that development assistance/cooperation must always be adapted to the situation – point one – that it is necessary to respond to the situation as part of the assessment of development aid. What does that mean? – In Austria, we have at present caused a huge crisis situation – caused by the federal government – a corona crisis situation that, as has been said, was triggered by the measures of the Federal Government. We have an economic crisis in Austria. We have a wave of torment. We have the situation that our citizens can no longer afford much. This is, of course, the question: How do we use the budget? Again to the memory: The budget is the means that we take away from our citizens of taxpayers' money. How do we use this budget? This is the issue of setting priorities. We liberals believe that priority is one – especially in crisis situations – the Austrian citizens and only two, so to speak, are the salvation of the world. In this crisis situation, we do not regard it as good to increase funds for development assistance/cooperation, but rather we should consider a reduction and involve Austrian citizens; in particular, we have discussed this in the Committee if there is a need for explanation in terms of the effectiveness of these funds. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Countries such as Ethiopia, Afghanistan, Sudan clearly prove that hundreds of millions and billions of euros and dollars are unable to form stable societies, implement democracy, implement open, stable societies. All three cases must be assessed as failure. But I do not see any change in course in the context of our development aid/cooperation policy. You, Mr Foreign Minister, have not been able to answer this in the Committee whether you are now analysing it and, on the basis of the fact that many things have failed in the context of development aid, think about somehow changing and improving the course. Perhaps you can explain to us today how far you think about changing the course. – So situation adjusted! For us liberals, development aid must also be in line with the principle of targeted assistance – targeted assistance regionally, focused on content and not in accordance with the principle of foundry. For us liberals, development assistance/cooperation must also be more output-oriented. We're always just talking about increases and quotas. This is an input-oriented approach. We measure the success of development assistance/cooperation by how much money we spend. This is basically wrong access. We should measure the success of our development aid by how successful we are in the respective countries, where we want to help – we also want to help the liberals – how great the success is. There's a little bad in the balance sheet. Fourth important principle of free development assistance/cooperation: This should not be unconditional, but should be linked to conditions – not all too harsh conditions, but there must be progress in the development of open societies, in the development of democracy. There must be progress in combating corruption, combating tax evasion and the like in these countries. Above all, we lack the understanding that, for example, countries with funds for development assistance/cooperation, whose military expenditure at Weitem – we are coming to UG 14 tomorrow to defend the country – exceed what the Republic of Austria spends on its own military. So that doesn't fit in. In concrete terms, we should also injunctify this – that is, not unconditionally – with readmission agreements. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The extension of the withdrawal agreements is also contained in your strategy report 2022 to 2025. We discussed this in the committee and you yourself said: This is a vulnerability! – This is once again a good realization that this is a vulnerability, but unfortunately you have not been able to show solutions, which would be relatively simple from my self-understanding, by juncifying development aid funds with the conclusion of corresponding withdrawal agreements. So there is still some potential for improvement. Perhaps another final word – since you always emphasize your principles that you are a champion of the transatlantic alliance, a defender of human rights and a fighter against any kind of anti-Semitism: I would like to refer to the transatlantic confession. In the strategy report, you also indicate that the expansion of the dialogue rails with the USA, with Russia and with China – this is an objective of Austrian foreign policy – and unfortunately I have not received a concrete answer to my specific question of how this should work with Russia and China. But this gives me the opportunity to clarify once again the relationship of the Freedom Party with Russia: It is known that there was such a friendship agreement – or whatever – there. There is no longer any such thing as it will not exist in the future. There will no longer be Presidents dancing at weddings of free politicians et cetera. [[Abg. Fireplaces: You are able to learn! Bravo!]] This does not mean, however, that we do not want to maintain normal access to Russia in old Austrian neutrality tradition. This means that we – at least we liberals – want to be a bridge builder towards Russia, towards China, that we can also support our friends from the Baltic region or our Polish friends, because they admittedly do much harder because of their historical experiences – and for this we have full understanding. This would be an opportunity for the Republic of Austria to appear as an actual bridge builder, and that would be our access. Perhaps, Minister of Foreign Affairs, you will take up this access and follow it in a follow-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e26256	Next speaker is Dr.in Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e26280	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. To my previous speaker maybe just one sentence: From my point of view, foreign policy needs far-reaching views and not envy debates, for everyone who goes through the world with open eyes sees that Austria is not an island. Whether it is the climate crisis, the refugee situation or also the Covid pandemic: The challenges in the world have long been global in nature and do not stop – I repeat that almost in every speech – from our borders. The situation at the Polish-Belarusian border also makes it clear just how complex current conflicts are, how global they are and how complex geopolitical interests can be. That is why everyone who looks over the edge of the plate can understand how important it is that we should also address these global problems accordingly. the root of the disease and not only fight against the symptoms, because unfortunately this also entails a breach of international, humanitarian or legal standards. That is, we can only make the world safer and more viable if as many states in the world pull on a line. That is why I am very pleased that the European and international affairs department will receive more resources – 1.9 percent more than in the previous year – whose budget will thus be increased by 10.5 million euros. I am particularly pleased that the funds for the foreign disaster fund have been increased by 2.5 million euros to 55 million euros on our operations. I remember: We have also increased these last year, which means that we will have an increase to around 60 million euros by 2024, which will be necessary for the rapid management of these many current disasters. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I really want to put in a taxative list what Austria is doing, because we are always quoting that this local aid, humanitarian aid, is so necessary that development cooperation is important. During the current year alone, we have provided humanitarian aid in Ethiopia, Burkina Faso, Yemen, Colombia, Lebanon, Libya, Mozambique, Syria, Venezuela and Uganda, and with the available funds we also support the fight against the Covid-19 crisis in Armenia, Georgia, Bergkarabach, Uganda, South Sudan, the Western Balkans or even Ethiopia, Mozambique, South Africa or the Democratic Republic of Congo. If we screen the news on our own today, we can read that there are arrests and abuses in Ethiopia, there were two attacks in Uganda today, in Bergkarabach the conflict is rekindled again, there are dead soldiers. – All the more important are targeted assistance and support to the listed countries. In my view, another good news is the quadruple of the core contribution for the UNHCR refugee aid from EUR 0.5 million to EUR 2.2 million. With the budget increased by 1.9 percent compared to the previous year, an expansion of the headquarters – which was also mentioned, very important is Vienna as a conference location – is financed, which means additional 4.3 million euros, which flow into, so to speak, Austrian international work and to strengthen effective multilateralism, since, for example, only the Belarus conference will be mentioned in Vienna. All in all: There are many crises and they will not be less. However, our task and at the same time our responsibility is to ensure social, economic and political stability elsewhere, because, as we know, this has, of course, an automatic impact on Austria in a global global policy. In this sense, I am pleased that we have many positive aspects to mention, and I am also looking forward to working with the new Foreign Minister. We won't be bored. But it is important, as mentioned at the outset, to keep a wide view and not to fall into envy debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e26334	Next speaker is Dr. Helmut Brandstätter. - Please, Doctor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e26359	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! Yes, I am in favour of a common foreign policy, Mr Federal Minister, I am looking forward to it. However, not only can the commonness be based on us, but I am also looking for it to come from the Federal Government. So if there were a Belarus conference next week in the Chancellor's Office, not in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it would have been nice to involve us there. We also have good contacts to the opposition. I am also pleased that the opposition is coming, but after all I hear, there will be few interlocutors there. This is an essential point: Foreign policy must be more than symbols, images and even marketing terms. We have heard the saying of the bridge builder so often, but I fear, ladies and gentlemen, that these bridge builders we are no longer, and that will already have its reason. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] The opposition has made a request, we have put forward a request on Azerbaijan, Armenia. In February we made the request – may you try to hold a conference here in Vienna, because there are just these battles around Bergkarabach, today we hear about new battles – but nothing has been done until then. The proposal we have tabled has simply been rejected. In this sense, I would be delighted with more together. I come to another conflict on the Polish-Belarusian border. If Europe, if our European history has any meaning, it is that it must be a continent of humanity and human rights, otherwise all of this and the terrible parts of our history have had no meaning. No, I'm not saying we have to bow to what the Belarusian dictator has done, namely to abuse people and lead them to the border. No, we don't have to do that – quite the contrary: It turned out that it worked when the EU joined forces and said: So, please, we are not aware of these flights, because anyone who wants to fly to the EU cannot use refugees at the same time. Living there – what does living mean? –, there try to survive a few thousand people, and we cannot watch them starve and freeze there. That means we have to get active there, Minister of State. Again: That does not mean that you say, well, then they will be brought to Western Europe! But we have to take care of them, and then there will be return possibilities, and you have to look at them in peace. But it can't be that we Europeans are watching people starve to death, who can't do anything for it, which has already been abused. I would really like to ask for approval. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. El-Nagashi.]] Another topic is Afghanistan: We've heard from the Interior Minister. The new wave of refugees is coming. These were just propaganda statements, uttered on the back of really terrible disadvantaged people. They then drove to the region, also to Uzbekistan, colleague Türk has noted it. I just want to say: Uzbekistan, yes, this is an authoritarian regime, this is a dictatorship, according to Freedomreport, which I have just looked at, it has eleven out of 100 points. Yeah, it's a terrible dictatorship. So you have to look at who you have contacts with and who you want to support. But you have just said that there is now no wave of refugees. So I would ask you first to agree and not to abuse this issue. Then I'd like to say something: Yes, of course, according to the Westphalian system, states act together, but in our globalized world it is about people. For this I brought you a book – yes, read it first and then shout – the colleague of the Greens has already looked at it: [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] “Atlas of a fearful man”. You know me, it's not about me. Christoph Ransmayr has brought together reports from all over the world. [[Keeping that book in height]] He has observed people living in the Himalayas, in the South Seas, he has observed poor and rich people living, he has people in their needs ==References== I believe that, especially in foreign policy, we must remember that it is about people. What you are doing as an foreign politician is at the end of determining the fate of people, and that is why reading such a book sometimes helps. Finally, Mr. Federal Minister, I also thank the employees here, but especially those outside. I know from my own experience, I agree with colleagues Kassinger, the employees of the Chamber of Commerce are great employees who know about themselves, they are important for Austria. But they are so good, therefore, Mr Federal Minister, you do not need these 600 000 euros for ads, the achievements of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are recognized. Use the 600 000 euros for something useful or save them, but please forget about the ads! You're too good for it, you don't need it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e26437	On a point of view, Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Michael Linhartzu spoke. – Mr Federal Minister, I ask you to use the microphone on the left.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e26461	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to take the opportunity to say a few words about the budget of my house for 2022. Like the year 2020, which has given us the outbreak of a global pandemic, 2021 is also a very challenging year. The Coronavirus continues to keep us on track, the crises and conflicts surrounding the globe are unfortunately not diminishing, but increasing, and defending our values of a free democratic and open society presents us with ever greater challenges globally. The challenges will not be reduced, but as Foreign Minister, I am convinced that we can and should look to the future positively. The present budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2022 is just over 560 000 euros, i.e. a plus of about 10.5 million euros compared to the 2021 Federal Proposal, for which I am very grateful. I can assure you that this money is very well invested. A clear focus is on the services of the house. Our representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are in the first line when it comes to representing the interests of Austria abroad and helping citizens in need. Until recently, I was in Paris myself as an ambassador to this team of foreign offices and also gave me my best to be there for you worldwide. It's clear to us: We cannot delete every fire immediately, but we are on the side of the Austrians and are there for you worldwide at any time of the day and night. Our employees in the country and in the 101 representative authorities abroad were and are in the pandemic again and again where they were needed – in the repatriation flights, in the manufacture of medical goods at the beginning of the corona crisis, in the vaccine aid in our neighborhood on the Western Balkans and other partner countries and most recently in the evacuations from Afghanistan. I would also like to express my sincere thanks to all employees in the office. [[As a result of this, the Commission has decided to extend the scope of the programme to the following areas: Fireplaces.]] With this budget, we can guarantee our services for Austrians in the home and abroad in usually high quality. This shall apply in particular: Also for the new citizens according to § 58c Citizenship Law, i.e. the descendants of NS victims, because for the related additional tasks, 2022 and 2023 will be available to us in addition to 1.5 million euros each. This budget also allows for a further expansion of our contribution to the relief of global disasters and the continuation of our development cooperation projects. This is once again a clear response to the global increasing humanitarian challenges. The funds of the foreign disaster fund – which has already been mentioned – will be increased again, by 2.5 million euros to a total of 55 million euros for 2022. In this way, we will also be a reliable partner abroad in the coming year and, through effective local assistance, will make our contribution to reducing the world's suffering. Especially in these times, such a budget increase is not natural. This must always be known to all of us here. It is a clear commitment to Austrian foreign policy, the service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the worldwide aid of Austria. With the further increase, we continue the course that this Federal Government has committed itself to: a clear focus on humanitarian aid with the aim of increasing the budget of the foreign disaster fund to EUR 60 million by the end of the legislative period. We also have a significant increase in the budget in another essential area for us, namely the budget for the seat of Vienna, i.e. for the orientation of international conferences and summit meetings. This increases from 1.7 million euros next year by 4.3 million euros, i.e. significant, to 6 million euros. This is very important for us, because Vienna has always been a hub of diplomacy and is an internationally recognized place of dialogue. Today, despite the difficult travel opportunities, six rounds of the Iran talks, the so-called JCPOA talks, have already taken place. I hope they'll be taken up again this month. The participants of these JCPOA talks, i.e. the USA, Russia, China, Great Britain, France, Germany and Iran, bring us great appreciation and recognition for these services and we also maintain regular exchange with them on this occasion. However, the holding of these talks is also a high cost – a reason why increased budget resources are needed. Apart from that, of course, we are also trying to establish various organisations and institutions, including the secretariat of the Kimberley process, and to ensure the sustainable establishment of the existing headquarters. I can tell you: Competition, especially in other European countries, does not sleep, it is always very big. Another strengthening of the Vienna headquarters is not only a personal concern to me, but is also in the interest of the Austrian economy. The international sector generates a value-added of around 1.3 billion euros per year in this area. In addition to Vienna, the federal states also benefit from this. This international sector is an employer for 6,000 international officials and diplomats – a quarter of whom are Austrians – and in total more than 18,000 jobs are secured. What we need to do now is to break down the economic consequences of the corona crisis in the country. The Refocus Austria initiative is a central part of the Federal Government's comeback plan for rapid economic reconstruction. Our embassies and general consulates stand hand in hand here with the business centre of the Chamber of Commerce at the interface between business and politics to stimulate exports, attract foreign investments and open up new business opportunities. This is a cooperation that works very well. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget means, for us, that the services for Austrians at home and abroad, in particular for the new citizens under § 58c Citizenship Act, remain in the usual high quality, and that we can expand our contribution to the relief of disasters worldwide with the foreign disaster fund and development cooperation, because prosperity, security and stability in our neighbourhood serve not only Europe. The 2022 budget also means that urgently needed investments in IT and building security as well as digitization can be made and we are moving abroad with huge steps towards digital office. It also means strengthening the headquarters of Vienna and our role as a mediator, urgently supporting the economic upturn for the export and tourism industry, as well as for Austrian artists abroad, and respecting our international commitments in the form of contributions to international organisations, coupled with the particularly important increase in the UNHCR core contribution by 1.7 million to 2.2 million euros. In this way, I believe, we have the opportunity to use value-based for the Austrians worldwide – for our country, for our Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e26544	Next speaker is Mag. Martin Engelberg. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e26568	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, and also the spectators in front of the television screens! Mr. Kassinger, you really impressed me. Where is he? - There. [[look around in the hall]] Mr Kassager, I would also like to expressly mention this, because it has fallen a little: Your confession, your clear commitment to Russia, was really surprising and really very, very pleasing to me. It is a release from these very strange alliances that has existed. These were, I think, really a burden, not only for your party, but actually for all of us, for Austria. I have been mentioned so many times. I would like to stress here once again the importance of your statement here and how helpful it, I believe, is. This also leads me to the topic of transatlantic relations and their importance. It is also a special satisfaction for me that, as part of our foreign policy, we today have such a clear commitment to transatlantic relations, to our strategic alliance with the United States. I believe that today we see ourselves much more conscious than part of the Western community of values. I think that's crucial. It will be the great challenge of the coming years and decades to defend the Western community of values, and this also requires a very close relationship with the United States. We must also, in fact, stop mixing neutrality and neutrality. That is to say, there can be no neutrality between the Western system of values with democracy, the rule of law, human rights and freedom and countries that are dictatorships that disregard human rights and are not the rule of law. We're not in the middle. It must be clear where we stand. This does not mean that we do not need to maintain functioning relations with countries such as Russia and China or such countries, but it must be quite clear where we stand, and we are not in the middle. A sentence to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because I believe that there is always a great deal of thanks and recognition for the work being done there: It is really a treasure that we have in Austria: in the care of international relations, as a source of information and, of course, in the care of Austrians in other countries, it is indeed an incredible value. I think that must be said here. That's where great things are done, and we really have to be very grateful. Thank you. I'll finish at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e26610	Mrs Petra Bayr has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e26632	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Talking about the chapter on development cooperation in the budget is usually quite unpleasant, but: Ha! Today, there's a chance for a turn. We have all received a letter or an e-mail from, on the one hand, the umbrella organisation of development organisations and humanitarian aid organisations, the working group of global responsibility, and on the other, from some major NGOs in which they are asking for us, but we have tabled an amendment here in the debate and to increase the budget for bilateral development cooperation, both with regard to the ADA, i.e. the Austrian Development Agency and with regard to the foreign disaster fund. This request is being distributed. The government parties thus have the opportunity to agree on Thursday on a request to comply with their own government programme, namely, towards 0.7% of GNI for development cooperation. Although this is a small step-by-step – we are calling for an increase of 20 percent for ADA and AKF – it would be a step towards your government programme. That would be something. I hope you'll all be there if we vote on Thursday. [[I would like to congratulate the SPÖ and the Deputies Brandtätter and Brandtötter.]] I would like to make this amendment tabled by Mr Petra Bayr, Mr Henrike Brandstötter, colleagues, and also briefly explain: He is on the report of the Committee on Budgets on the Government Template 1034 of the Supplements, 1157 of the Supplements, and, as has been said, he is concerned with increasing the funds for the Austrian Development Agency and for the AKF by about 20 percent each. That would be a total of 36 million euros. On the one hand, these 36 million euros are covered by the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has 10 million euros of reserves and, on the other hand, there is usually much more income from the cheese than is estimated, is also estimated in this budget, and this would be more easy to cover together. The AKF does indeed rise, but it does not even rise to the extent that we are overtaking it this year. So we're overburdening more this year than he's up until 2024. That means, that's not exactly the super tip of the iceberg we reach there, and it's really a lot more to do. The NGOs who write to us, among other things, lead to the meeting that Corona acts as a fire amplifier, that probably very soon more than a billion people on this earth will be absolutely poor, i.e. that statistically less than 1.6 euros a day will be available, and that the poverty crisis, combined with the climate crisis, will become a vicious circle that could be interrupted by a meaningful humanitarian aid as well as development cooperation. On the one hand, I am pleased if you agree to this request. On the other hand, I must also say that the budget is no longer correct at the time of the budget. For many years, in the budget perspective, we have always allocated 1.6 billion euros to three years for the decommissioning of Sudan. In the preview this time it is even in the budget for 2022 inside with an amount that, in sum, why, has miraculously increased to 3.3 billion euros, and that of a credit substance, which was about 75 million euros at the end of the 1970s. So it has been done by re-indebtedness in high interest rates and interest interest rates to more than 20 times, and now we go here and want to write this to us as development cooperation funds half a century later. On the request of the FPÖ it was said: Not only that this doesn't come what's planned – so if you've been listening: The Minister has already said in the budget hearing on the question of Mr Matznetter whether we will reach 0.7 percent next year – according to the preview we would achieve 0.83 percent or something – that we do not do so, because, although the Paris Club made a decision in summer to finally make Sudan debt, but after being a military coup, this decision is on hold and will probably not come in 2022. That's what the Paris Club says. – So don’t worry, not just that the debt will not come, even if it came, it wouldn’t cost a cent in the budget. That's pure play money, that's a pure record story. This has flown in the 1970s, it's written down a thousand times, it's no longer a real debt, it's just a bookkeeping story and it's by the way unfair, because it's not really relevant to development policy at all. I know it's within the OECD criteria, it's within the rules of the game, not a question, we're not the evil ones, but the evil ones are among others those who make the rules of the game, but we're also the ones who don't break the rules to go. Finally, another thought: What is also being discussed in the OECD in the DAC, i.e. in the Development Assistance Committee, is that every vaccine donation giving a country to a so-called developing country is to be booked as ODA with $6.7 – that is the real madness of the matter – without defining any criteria for an expiry date. We must not export already expired vaccines wherever they are, which is prohibited from us due to other circumstances, but we could theoretically send a vaccine that expires in three or four weeks, wherever it happens, and say: Juhu, with us at home, no Astra Zeneca or whatever, we send it wherever we go and then count it per dose at $6.7. That too – don't be evil! – is unfair, because until these cans really arrived where they are injected into an upper arm, they have long since expired. This is easy to discuss at OECD level too! Mr Minister, I am sorry, but if you tell us on request in the Committee that you naturally want as much as possible ODA to be acceptable, then I believe that this is already much more differentiated than it is at present, because what happens to budget cosmetics is really, really immoral, unethical and politically not clean at all. – Thank you very much. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Fireplaces.]] [[19:57]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e26977	The next speaker is Alexander Melchiorzu word. Please, honourable Member. I can add that the amendment has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e27004	Mr President. Mr. Foreign Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Dear colleague Bayr, when you came to the speaker's desk and talked about the fact that today could be a good day, I thought it was about the foreign disaster fund. You have also referred to these, but you have not said that he has been tenfold in the last few years. The foreign disaster fund is a very important measure to: to enable quick and easy help. They are extremely committed in this area, even since my great appreciation, but I think it would also be appropriate to say: This is also a success and it goes in the right direction. – Of course, it can be more and more, but you can also pay tribute to what is there, and I would like to do so at this point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second aspect you mentioned concerns the doses of vaccination. As you know, the vaccines that Austria provides to other countries – if I am properly informed, especially around the Western Balkans – are, of course, no vaccines that have expired. Nor is it about accounting for the ODA or anything else, but it is only about supporting countries that need our help. This is what we are doing and I am very, very grateful that this initiative has also been launched. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Disoski.]] To what I actually wanted to say: Mr. Foreign Minister – I can say this: dear Michael – I am glad that you took over the task in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We have been able to work very closely and intensively, and I can tell you a personal anecdode: When I came to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and saw you, your first sentence was: Hello, good thing you're there – so I felt very welcome – how can I help? How can I support it? This is also true of how I met the staff in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: extremely service-oriented in the consular sector, in support of companies to be supported in other countries, in the field of EZA. So there is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs a real service provider, and it is beautiful to see that it simply has this quality and this is present. At this point a very, very great thank you to the employees. I had previously received a text from a dear former colleague who said she was watching. Your alternate: You are greetings – and also all colleagues who are in Austria or in the local representations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to mention that the issue – you have already mentioned it – is a truly important issue, not only for us, for foreign policy, but also for location policy. You've been talking about value creation. These contacts, which can also be used in Austria in this context, these bilateral talks that take place on the verge – I know how important they are, I know how you will conduct them. It helps us all, thank you very much! – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e27068	Next speaker is Member Petra Steger. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e27092	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we are in the middle of the largest health and economic crisis in the Second Republic. Debts are rising to the immeasurable, inflation is taxing not only households but also businesses. Electricity, oil, gas, building materials, everything is getting more expensive, and in Austria there are now about 1.2 million people at risk of poverty who no longer know whether they can afford heating this winter. Despite all this, despite the crisis and even though every cent here in Austria would be urgently needed, each time we pay more and more to the European Union. I consider this, ladies and gentlemen, not only to be absolutely irresponsible, but especially in the present time to be an incredible betrayal of the interests of the Austrians. [[Abg. Fireplaces: We get back more and more!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a small amount. Thanks to the agreement of the EIA, but also the other parties to the last multi-annual financial framework, we have been paying 800 million euros to Brussels more since 2020 than in previous years. Our contribution has increased from around EUR 3 billion to EUR 3.8 billion – money that is now missing and that we would urgently need. With the agreement of the time, the ÖVP has also broken any election promise it has ever given in this context. I can still remember that when the then Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who was soon accused, stood up and said with him, there will be no increase in the EU contribution, it could not be that an EU that has become smaller by the Brexit needs more money now. – At the end of the day, you have agreed to the largest EU budget of EUR 1 074 billion. But not only did you last year, under the cover of Corona, have you agreed to one of the most far-reaching decisions since the introduction of the euro, namely the EU's reconstruction fund, and thus not only the enormous taboo of a debt union, but also payments and liabilities of Austria at billions for Member States such as Italy, Spain and France. For 3.5 billion euros we will probably get, we will pay for 12 billion euros in the future. These are debts of the next generation for which you are responsible, ladies and gentlemen. When you talk about solidarity, I always wonder: What about solidarity with our own people, the next generations in Austria, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fireplaces.]] They have not only agreed with this decision that the EU will break its own treaties but also clearly break Austrian constitutional law. I have told you several times, but it seems to you that Austrian constitutional law plays a role, as we have seen recently in the 2G measures, no longer a role – the next scandal for Austria. Throughout Europe, even in Germany, the media are already shaking their heads over these measures; according to the scandal caused by the ÖVP with its Bussi Bussi chats, this is the next embarrassment in Europe. The worst thing is: With your EU redistribution policy and the acquisition of foreign debt, you ensure that more and more debts are made. Instead of ensuring that debt ratios are finally reduced, we want to avoid the Maastricht criteria now. I think this is absolutely irresponsible and I can tell you now: All the money that is now going to flow into these countries will be pumped and in the end only an even larger debt mountain remains. The worst thing is – what you realize when you look at it – what the EU is using our funds for. Apart from the financing of further debt and the inclusion of more and more refugees, it pays billions to Turkey for pre-accession aid, for an EU-Turkey deal that Turkey repeatedly abuses to extortion us. Instead of finally ending the accession negotiations with Turkey, countries such as Hungary or Poland are constantly being punished: Hungary to protect the EU's external borders in 2015, and Poland to do so because it has stated that Polish constitutional law is not applicable to EU law. At the same time – and this is a special treat – the European Union advocates giving 1 billion euros to the Taliban. – Yes, of course, this is European logic: It is, of course, much more compatible with European values than once to state that national competences go before EU law. Poland has, of course, done something horrible. – Absurance is no longer possible, ladies and gentlemen. Poland is being removed from corona building equipment, simultaneously imposes a penalty of 1 million euros daily, and then also expects it to have sufficient resources to effectively protect the external borders. Such an approach once again shows the whole absurdity of the European Union and the parallel universe in which politicians live in part. For this reason, I would like to make the following motion for a resolution: ladies and gentlemen, stop this permanent Hungarian and Polish bashing before the next countries of the European Union turn their backs on it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fireplaces]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Instead of following up refugee distribution fantasies, you should rather ensure that the billions we transfer to Brussels are finally used for effective external border protection. Finally, with this sale of Austria to Brussels, both financial and our competences, stop! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[20:07]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e27244	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Henrike Brandstötter is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e27271	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[towards Federal Minister Linhart]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Linhart.]] - Excuse me! Mr. Federal Minister! It's already late. Development cooperation is the humanitarian responsibility for a country as rich as our Austria, but development cooperation is also an excellent investment in our own future. The growth markets of the future lie in Africa, Asia, South America, and I therefore demand more and more resources for development cooperation, more budget, but also a new quality of development cooperation. Quality means to measure what we actually achieve with our money. Mr Kassinger also mentioned this earlier, and the Committee also mentioned the following: In this budget, which we are now deciding, we have impact targets, we have to assess poverty reduction according to how many projects we have and how much money we spend on these projects. No impact target is currently to see whether people will be better off whether these projects will also create a sustainable income. You also said in the Committee, Mr Federal Minister, that success is difficult to assess. But I have to stop you from doing this, too. There is an entire academic field of evaluation, and I think we should try it with that. Also, that we cannot adapt our help quickly enough and flexibly if one of our partner countries sinks into civil war, as is the case in Ethiopia at present, is not acceptable. If we really are so bad at evaluating help, then we have to consider whether we are this kind of aid. let and pool our money. We can give them to international organisations, we can give them to those organisations that can already evaluate. That also brings me to quantity. 0.7 percent is the international goal, of which we are currently 0.31 percent far away. You said in the Committee that 0.7 per cent are a longer-term objective, but we are on the right track because we have already improved from 0.26 per cent. I know you're new and you need to get in touch. But you may also ask your staff about the trends of the future. There it goes uphill for a few years, then it goes downhill again, then it flattens down again, and so we design our economic performance. That is why NGOs do not demand for nothing an EZA financing law that brings economic aid on predictable rails in order to prevent these percentages of roller coasters from driving, depending on how the economy is running. I would ask you, as a former ADA director, to join the new ADA director, who also wanted more help, a budget increase. This budget increase is possible, special budgets are possible, and I ask you to consider again whether we are not drawing this special budget. I would also ask you to make an evaluation a priority, because those who do not help efficiently will not help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e27331	Mr Christian Hafenecker is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e27353	Mr President. Federal Minister! I think a small flowering number diver happened to you before, and your resort does not have a budget of 560 000 euros, but a budget of 560 million euros. But this is probably due to the advanced hour. I listened to my colleague Mr Dziedzic and shared her concerns about the many conflicts surrounding the globe and the many problems that exist in relation to human rights. I hope that Mr Dziedzic will also see what is happening in his own country: that innocent people are simply being interned at home. Their party is co-responsible for this. You almost have to hope that there are some international NGOs who also take care of the Austrians once this goes on. [[Congratulations with FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, what I last felt sorry for at our committee meeting, is that you did not actually answer any of our questions, and that, although you have been to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for a long time, you have not been so new at all and have recently been ambassadors. I would now like to take the opportunity to point out once again what you have not told us. For example, if you talk about the composition of our EZA funds and consider which regimes they arrive at the end of the day, I think it would be important for you to have a strategy from the Austrian point of view for where to send these funds. I do not think that Austria can be satisfied with the fact that, in the end, our EZA funds will end up with, among other things, the Taliban. This discussion must be possible and one must also conduct it. Another point that we raised in the plenary session – Mr Bayr, but also Mr Melchior, have pointed out – is the distribution of vaccine doses. Whenever Austrian government members in countries that do not as well as holding state visits, immediate doses of vaccination are distributed. You should also be able to talk about it, not only how these get there, but also what we pay for it. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] This is not just about the purchase costs of these vaccines, but about ancillary contracts that the pharmaceutical companies have filed, and because we cannot simply pass on these doses, but then have to pay for them again. I think this is an issue that we need to highlight again in this context. Mr Federal Minister, I have already told you in committee: You should also tell the Austrian people what these acts of grace, which you are doing there somehow around the globe, actually cost. It is not only about the dose of vaccination per se, but also about what you have to do about compensation. Against this background – and there I am again at the end of my remarks – one thing is also exciting: Although we distribute vaccines everywhere on the one hand, on the other we do not care about the Austrians abroad. There is the example from Brazil, where, of course, there are also impervious Austrians from abroad who do not receive the vaccines from Austria, but in return they have received all ambassadors. The point is that: You don't have to build a Brazilian-wide vaccination now, but at least you can send the message with vaccines so that you can also have imperceptible Austrians vaccinated there. In return, there is the problem that these Austrians are condemned to be given vaccines locally if they want to. But these are not accepted by us, so they cannot travel home despite vaccination. So from my point of view, Federal Minister, this injustice – and Brazil has just been referred to as an example – should be put on the right track, and one should really see that foreign Austrians are treated at least as well as other countries around the globe.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e27420	Mag. Dr. Martin Graf. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e27444	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, we are talking a lot about development cooperation at this item on the agenda, and we have already discussed this in the Committee on Budgetary Negotiations. Today, by Members of the government groups, particularly Mr Dziedzic, there is hardly any criticism of this budget, of this government template, which we are adopting today, but it is constantly criticizing the opposition. There is actually a government proposal to vote here, and we could have achieved this in the budgetary negotiations. I now draw up a point that would be enough for me alone to reject the budget at all, namely the removal of Sudan's debts. I can remember: This has been recorded in the government template, and in the negotiations there is no response to the fact that there has now been a military coup and people are being killed there, oppositions are being detained, opponents of the military government are being imprisoned. The Austrian government is going here and, with the budget law that we are going to adopt today and in the next few days, we are adopting a debt release of 2.5 billion euros for this military government. That's 2 500 million euros if you want to, or in old currency – Some of them can also imagine something – 35 billion Austrian schilling. This would allow the Austrians to provide 125 000 VW of medium-sized equipment. The Austrians have spent this money in the past. These are the funds that Sudan has spent in recent years, and I would remind you: Sudan has spent an average of 4.6 percent of its military GDP over the last 30 years, to name just one example. Austria spends 0.4 percent, I say. So one could say that the Sudan has obviously used our development aid funds in recent years also for military expenditure and now obviously also uses them to suppress the population in many ways. The fact that we are not ready in the Committee's budget negotiations – and we have often pushed the Minister and asked him about it, but he has hardly given his opinion – is surprising. If we are able to push away 2.5 billion euros so loose in a revenue budget of around 80, 85 billion euros, it is surprising that we decide to do so, and thus also to encourage the Rosserry to increase the funds of development cooperation over this said 0.7 percent of our GDP. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this is a really false signal, to a military government, to ultimately give money to coupists in this situation. What is the impact of this measure? – That one can say in the Third World: If we clean up and use a military regime, Austria leaves us the debt! – This is the goal you may have pursued or achieved, with the help of the Greens. You're not ready to give up. We can see again the importance of Parliament in budgetary negotiations at the end. This is fatal and very, very bad, you will agree with me. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is very urgent that at least this signal should be sent from the House, and if we are not able to send this signal, then I am really sorry, Mrs Dziedzic, with permission. Then you don't need to raise the moral index finger, especially in the direction of the FPÖ at all, because then you have already used all the credit you have given in the development aid; that is what I say at this point. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact that one has back-turned goals is that one has no objectives for the future at all, one can see from a single example. Brazil is now also At the climate conference in Glasgow in the centre. But that Austria is going – perhaps with the help of the Greens, but I am no longer disappointed by the Greens, not at all in this political situation; they can't stand anywhere – and in this context, even not even declared Brazil to be a priority country for economic cooperation at all levels, science, foreign policy and the like, even in view of the fact that one might also contribute to doing good in the Amazon region or anywhere on these issues, you won't come to that?- Oh, my God! We have continued to be in South America Uruguay, which was made in March this year, and in Central America, Costa Rica, we have set up as two target countries. This is beautiful and fine, and that should be so, but the real global player, namely Brazil, where you should and should be doing something, and where you should be at the top of cooperation, is also being ignored here again, and that is a pity. I hope that in the next few weeks we will come to a better position in the context of Austrian foreign policy. I invite you to negotiate with us. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[20:22]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e27585	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. There are no more words available to me, so the discussions on this subject have ended. [[20:22:29]] UG 13: Justice
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e27609	Furthermore, we come to the breakdown 13: Justice. The first word is Mag. Selma Yildirim. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e27636	Mr President. Mrs Minister, I welcome you! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is indisputable, even though some try to make us know another: Justice is one of the central pillars in our rule of law and it is part of the system-related infrastructure. That is how we should treat them – that means: enough staff, enough money – but it should also be able to work in peace. The courts face major challenges – all of which has not been the case in recent years – but still: Despite the most difficult conditions, Austrian justice is doing a very good job with enormous quality – a great thank you. Our justice is also left in times of crisis. I also see positively that there is a budget increase for justice this year. But if you look more closely, Mrs Minister, then it is budgetaryly and personnelly still at many corners and ends. Is this perhaps also a consequence of many years of management of the ÖVP? Many reform projects are already running the x-te loop; at least there is a need to catch up. In 2022, the judicial system will receive around 76 million euros, and the number of planning posts will be increased by 55 full-time equivalents. This is a step in the right direction, not a question. In the coming year, for example, there will be six more planning points for the prosecutors, but the WKStA alone has notified the need for ten additional prosecutors. In the dramatically overburdened Federal Administrative Court, the increase from 2021 to 2022 with 1 percent is extremely poor. The situation of the judicial authorities is irresponsible. An increase of only four planning sites is far too little in view of the still extensive tasks. Apart from that, the required 200 additional posts could not yet be filled. The situation is really tense. So once again, these increases are a drop on the hot stone. It must also be remembered that new challenges are always being added – the fight against hatred on the network or the prevention of extremism are mentioned as examples – and for new tasks more personnel are needed. I do not want to address the various reform projects that are up and important at all, but I would just like to say in summary that it is positive that there will be more money for justice. I am particularly pleased that there will be improvements for the court interpreters – I think our request and our discussion have also contributed to this – but unfortunately this is not enough financial and personnel to implement major reforms, and they are up to – I mention, for example, the implementation of measures. That is one of the reasons why we cannot agree to this budget, although you, Mrs Minister, are ambitious. We simply hope that more force will be displayed and that you will be very strong for Austrian justice. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e27682	Next speaker is Mag.a Agnes Sirkka Prammer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e27706	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! As always, we show with the budget where the focus of work lies, and one of the priorities is certainly strengthening justice. 131 million euros in 2020, 65 million euros in 2021, that was what the justice saved from the death of the dead, with which her Federal Minister Alma Zadić secured survival. After the system had been broken down for years, the judicial system was able to survive and reassemble with these resources. For example, urgently needed bodies were created in all areas – in the courts, in the prosecutors and also in the judicial institutions – and resources were provided to enable efficient work to be done. Survival is now secured and forward-looking projects can also be addressed. There is a further increase in the budget by 76 million euros. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The last time I finished my speech here with a silent unfortunately and the Minister of Justice who gave her a promise, it was precisely about the fees for the court interpreters at the time. They have called for an increase for years and this promise will be fulfilled with this budget. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The fees are not only raised, they are also designed more fairly and adapted to practice. And because I've already received feedback to my first speech today: Yes, this also means that the increase in compensation for time loss on arrival is lost over 30 kilometres. That's what we're aware of. This is primarily because the basic conditions have also changed. The reason for the increase in this rate of kilometre was that in 1975 there was an increased physical stress and mental tension due to long arrival. By now, know we believe that this is a normal way of working for many commuters, and that is why there was an approximation. I believe that in this order of magnitude it is really legitimate to reconsider that. But this does not change the fact that we appreciate the performance of interpreters for justice. It was a real concern for us to achieve fair pay, and I really believe that we have succeeded. Of course, more and more is going on, but we now have to go out: exploitably little, one: fairly rewarded, made, and I think that was an important step, if admittedly also long overdue. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Another important project is the improvement of the conditions in the implementation of measures. The aim is to create a real improvement for the people concerned – for the people who are accommodated as well as for the staff. The extension of the Göllersdorf judicial body will take a major, important, direction-setting step, and the implementation of a planned law on the enforcement of measures will really give a fair and sensible way of accommodation for all concerned. People are treated, they are given a perspective to release them as soon as this is possible. Another priority is the protection of violence. In this area, 5.6 million euros of additional resources are available. A major and large part of this area is youth and family aid. This institution is so important to help victims to have their right to give them a voice to give them hearing, and there are also 20 additional posts created. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In addition, an information campaign on process support will be launched to draw attention, in particular, to the rights of children and victims of hatred on the web. The rights will be extended at the beginning of the year, but this is only half a success if the victims do not know how to do so. Process support only works if there are people who offer this service, and in order to ensure that, the hourly rates for psychosocial process support are also increased. Thus, well-trained, motivated specialists are found for this activity, which can also do this work. Anti-violence training should also not be mentioned in this context. Also, almost half a million euros are available for this, so that an incident that ends up in court is no longer the first of an ever-changing spiral of violence, but the end of a long history of suffering. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] So I end up this time, as I did before: Let us work justice and give it the necessary means! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e27806	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Harald Stefan. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e27831	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we are discussing the judicial budget and we have already heard – in my opinion something very dramatic – That justice was in a bad condition. It was a question of the death of justice or of her sluggish death. I do not think of such expressions, because the Justice has always worked thanks to God – in many areas even very well – and therefore it should not be done so far in the verbal formulation. It is also not always worth spending more money on anything – we have it only to a limited extent – but, of course, it is necessary to equip justice with the necessary means, and it is therefore gratifying if we can see here that this is the case to a large extent. It was always important to us that there is a financial facility and a staff increase in the area of judicial institutions, but above all – which has been forgotten over and over again because there is a smaller lobby there – in the writing and office staff. This is now partly guaranteed. Of course, it could still be more, that's clear, but that's quite positive. I would, however, like to address two things that have always hit me in this context. One is the permeability of justice, that is, the transmission of files, that we read from files constantly and then from chat protocols, from things that are in fact purely private, about which one then makes fun – it may even be read in the castle theatre or elsewhere from where it is. This is simply a condition that needs to be removed because it concerns the privacy of people and because it cannot be followed by the authorities – which is absolutely correct and, of course, no one can have anything – but on the other hand, a pre-conception happens by reading these things in the media. This has been the case for so long now – in about 20 years we have been observing it now – and it is totally unexplainable to me why it is not possible to stop that. I know, it's always said it's from lawyers who pass it on. Yes, but you now, in the context of these discussions on the budget, have suggested to God that there will be some sort of electronic watermark so that one can understand it, because at least it cannot be that the accusation remains in the room – and it always turns out that it is quite credible – that it comes directly from the judiciary. That, I think, Minister of Justice, you have to stop. I hope you succeed. In any case, it would be absolutely necessary. A second point, which we have repeatedly mentioned, concerns a completely different area, namely that of the judicial authorities: that the inmates are not socially insured. They are insured unemployed, but otherwise not socially insured. In other words, they are treated like private patients, and they are paid as well as for private patients, and this costs huge sums that would not be necessary. We therefore demand, year after year – and I ask for it again today – that a legal regulation be finally adopted here, which will include the inmates of judicial institutions in normal social security. It cannot be said that the judicial guards will eventually be treated worse or less favourably than the inmates of the judicial institutions themselves – apart from the great financial effort. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore propose, together with Mr Lausch, that: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[20:36]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e27993	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Magnificence comes to the fore. Michaela Steinacker. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e28020	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Spectators in front of the screens! Yes, The budget is cast in figures policy. However, we are pursuing economic and social objectives not only with taxes, but also with key priorities, and in this respect this judicial budget has been very successful from my point of view. We are making sustainable budget policies, which on the one hand, deal with the objective of gradually reducing the debt ratio by 2025. On the other hand, we set priorities for the discharge of Austrian women, for the promotion of families, for the promotion of children, for a package of protection against violence and for an eco-social tax reform. Our judicial budget is small, but fine, it's oho, and it has very important impact goals that stand behind it. These objectives are so important that I would like to explain them very briefly. There are four: first of all, the “permanence of legal certainty and legal peace”; second: ‘To ensure equal access to justice’ for everyone; third, ‘objective, fair and independent [...] procedures [...] in an appropriate duration’, which are conducted ‘by courts, prosecutors and the data protection authority’; and fourthly, ‘modern, effective and humane enforcement’. There are four so important issues that all the employees in the whole field of justice – people who work in the case law, law enforcement, judicial institutions as guards, in the desks and also in the judicial administration – have committed themselves. – Thank you, thank you all, because they create just this legal peace and legal certainty in Austria, which we so urgently need! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We in the judicial system face major challenges in the implementation of the necessary things to be done. This year, we have an increase in the legal budget of 4.3 percent – 76.4 million euros – a total of more than 200 million euros in the last three years, and that is good and right. In addition to the organisational efficiency improvements, we will further develop projects that have already started and also set up new ones. We need the money for very important priorities in the field of violence protection. Ladies and gentlemen! Today it is only 26 women's murders committed this year in Austria. – It is important to look at this, because it is important to do something: to protect violence, to prevent it – for which money is provided – in information campaigns about where women can turn. This is an issue that is so important that we all, men and women in Austria, have to stand together to end it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Victim aid, counter-terrorism, fair pay of the court interpreters – all these are projects that have been started but are now on the way to the finish line. I would just like to say: The planning posts are distributed in the responsibility of the Minister where they are necessary. We will not create any planning sites where they are not needed. We still have open planning posts in the judicial guard – an area that I particularly appreciate for the performance that our colleagues are doing there – which means that we did not have to take precautions this year. In all other areas, however, fair, independent procedures should be able to be handled quickly and properly. This is supported accordingly. We are also starting the major construction projects: on the one hand, in the Göllersdorf judicial centre, which is one of the first steps to follow up on the implementation of the measures; on the other hand, we are Start with the renovation of the Grey House – everyone knows it, the Josefstadt Justice Centre – and the Vienna Criminal Court. These are projects for which some 200 million euros will be needed in the coming years, but which is most urgently needed to modernise the execution of the sentence accordingly. For me, there is a point that is particularly important: There is enough money for IT equipment to finally implement the electronic act throughout Austria, both in law enforcement and in courts. I believe that the electronic act – Mr Stefan said it earlier – is also very important to help with the security marks that will exist in the future to ensure that the protection of personal rights of suspects and accused persons can be better guaranteed. The fact that we have a high level of coverage in justice is known. I think that is almost unique among all ministries. Ladies and gentlemen! Again: I think we have a good, balanced budget with good priorities. Above all, I would like to thank the people who form the foundation of our rule of law for all those who work in the various areas of justice, because they do their job every day for their good functioning. Thank you so much for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e28109	Dr. Johannes Margreiter is speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e28133	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister of Justice! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Watchers in front of the screens, if anyone else is there! In the context of his budget speech, the Minister of Finance held on 13 March. On the judicial budget of October: “We will increase resources in the field of justice for the implementation of the Terrorism Package.” – The Minister is therefore dealing with the fight against terrorism on a budget basis. Who will object to him that terrorism is an important issue in times like ours? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jachs.]] But let us look at the facts and talk about the relationships! Let us back the urgent issues in front of the important, the basic ones in front of the additional ones! It is not the terror that keeps our country under control, nor the fundamentalist Islamism. It is the machinations which are currently mainly concerned with the WKSTA, which keep our country under control. It's unethical behavior. It is bought, shameless opinion-making that undermines our system. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Silvan.]] I plead for another, for a new order of the projects: Let us first look at a moral and humane policy before politics directs attention to the immorality and human contempt for extremist movements and marginal groups! I think I achieve broad consensus when I say here: Extremism has its origin, among other things, in the disregard of a society's fundamental moral pillars, in the idea of being able to target everything according to its own, partly abstract regulations, regardless of the consequences for the people concerned. Now I simply replace the term extremism with the term corrupt policy: Corrupt politics has its origin, among other things, in the disregard for moral pillars of a society, in the idea that everything is according to its own, partly abstrus rules, regardless of the consequences for the people concerned. – You see, it's one and the same word choice and the statement still works. This not only proves the compelling connection of these things, but also the order. It does not begin with extremism, it begins with the immorality of man and politics. For an Austrian value compass to prevent political extremism, there is no need for an enemy image of fanatical God warriors or ideological fanatics. The threat of our social reality and our social integrity is currently a Mr. Schmid, who according to the motto: “Whoever pays creates,” believes in being able to overcome any moral and legal boundary. This is also a Mr Kurz, who, in a state-supporting capacity, not only approves these conversions but also is also fuelled, and this is of course also a minister who keeps democratic control institutions like a parliamentary investigation committee for months on end. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cannon]] I'm just saying the keyword: I've delivered everything! – Yes, that’s right, he really delivered everything. He and his turkise chat group have really done everything to explain this swamp to their nature reserve – under the motto: Drying strictly forbidden! In the middle of this swamp – I quote the “standard” – a “flower”. – To counter this is the command of the hour. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Apart from this important matter, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable High House, I turn to a position of our judicial budget, which is, in particular, not an expenditure position. In the course of this budget debate, we have talked a lot about expenditure. We are pleased when expenditure positions are increased there and there, but there is a revenue position in the judicial budget, Mrs Bundesminister, whom we need to look at: the basic book fees. In Europe it is the case that the judicial budgets from the fees to be paid are on average covered by 25 percent. In Austria, this share is 93 percent in the judicial budget 2021. That is about 1.4 billion euros in revenue for justice. A very important part of this is the basic book fees. The basic book fees are at our expense to all of us. They burden the economy, they fall at the expense of the landlord, who not only has to pay 1.1 percent registration fee for the registration of the property right, but also, if he is financing his apartment with a loan, additional 1.2 percent registration fee for the loan. The whole is in view of the extremely rising real estate prices Of course, a huge source of revenue for the budget, but on the other hand a huge burden on the affected population and also on the economy. We know, indeed, that, in legal terms, it is not so unproblematic that, according to the Financial Constitutional Act, fees are actually subject to the principle that they can only cover the expenses incurred, which in the meantime is a European legal requirement. That is to say, our basic book fees, which often exceed the effort associated with the management of the basic books, are more questionable in this respect for legal reasons. I therefore propose another motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you for your attention. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[20:50]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e28364	Both motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are therefore also under negotiation. The Federal Minister for Justice, Dr.in Alma Zadić, has now made a statement on this point. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e28389	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Seers! Independent and strong justice is crucial for our society, for it protects the weakest of our society and also provides for legal peace. The budget of the Ministry of Justice will be increased by 76.4 million euros in 2022. This has succeeded in continuing the successful trend turnaround. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Yes, and with that we were able to avert the much quoted silent death of justice. After an increase of 131 million euros in 2020, in 2021 by 65 million euros, we were now able to obtain 76.4 million euros. This allows us to bear the very high costs of running. It must be said that justice is a very strong house, so it is simply necessary to invest in personnel as well. In addition to maintaining the ongoing operation, this increase allowed us to continue to ensure the independence of justice and also to focus on certain projects, in particular in the field of the protection of violence, the monitoring of the process and, of course, the further development of modern and independent justice. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You know, the fight against domestic violence and violence against women is an important concern to me, because we must do everything we can to finally break this spiral of violence. Today we count the 26th. Women's murder. This year alone, 40 women were almost murdered. – This is a mission, this is an assignment to the politicians in this country! And yes, as the Federal Government, we take additional EUR 24 million to break through this spiral of violence, only EUR 5.6 million within the justice system for the protection of violence. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We thus promote anti-violence training, men's advice, but also family and youth assistance finally gets the required resources. Yes, and all of that one goal was to break through this violent spiral. If we look at today's women's murder, we have to say: It is simply not to be surpassed by brutality and hatred of women – and that is a task for all of us. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There has also been much criticism at the Federal Administrative Court this year. They have been told that asylum procedures take far too long. Yes, when I took office, the delay was 40 000, i.e. 40 000 procedures were still open. In the last budget, we made sure that 80 job cuts did not take place, and we also obtained 30 jobs for legal staff. We continue this year too, because there are also more planning positions for judges in the Federal Administrative Court as well as for legal staff. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have already been able to achieve success. We have already reduced this residue of 40 000 cases by 50 percent. It is my goal that we continue to reduce it and no longer have residues in this area. Another project, which has also been discussed several times today, is the digitisation of justice. Yes, this is also a central concern to me, I want all the district courts to have a fully digitalized act, both national courts and all prosecutors. This costs money, which is why I have invested money in this field from the very beginning – and I can tell you today with pride: In the first quarter of next year, the entire prosecutor's office will be changed to the digital act. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I promised something last year. I have regretd last year that we could not increase the interpreter fees, and I have promised that at the next budget I will work to increase interpreter fees together with the Minister of the Interior. We did that, and it was finally time for it, because 14 years the interpreter fees were not increased. We as the Federal Government have managed together to significantly increase these hourly rates. Yes, this is important for the rule of law, because everyone has a right to a legal judge. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I do not wish to mention the action: Action is a priority project of mine, because it is just important to me to move forward with reforms. First of all, the implementation of measures needs enormous reform; secondly, when we look at the judicial institutions, we know that we urgently need to renovate there and increase the budget. Now we finally have the budget to expand the Göllersdorf judicial body and to make 100 new places available to residents there. The Asten Court of Justice is also being expanded. In the long term, the money saves us, because we know that every person who is not in a judicial institution who is in a hospital but is medically provided in a hospital costs us almost twice as much. If we expand the judicial institutions and thus expand the implementation of measures in-house, this will also be cheaper for us in the long run. Yes, I know that while the execution of sanctions and measures has received additional budget resources, I also know that the figures in the implementation of measures will unfortunately rise enormously and that there will also be increasing costs there, but as the Federal Government, we are committed to putting it under control, that we will expand the judicial institutions and also put the whole thing in place well-structured with the forthcoming reform of measures. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As you can see, there are also successes in the area of justice that allow justice to continue to play its central role in society. I am pleased that we have made an increase this year together. I am also pleased that many people have worked hard for it. That's where I want to go. Thank you very much also to the officials in my house, especially those in the presidential section who supported me very much in the budget negotiations, but also in the Committee, together with the Directorate-General. A warm thanks to the officials! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e28503	There is now power to speak. Georg Bürstmayr. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e28527	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! If, for the third time in a row, under green government participation, the judicial budget has been significantly increased if our Republic is to cost 1.8% of its annual budget, what does that mean? – That means that a mother may know more quickly about several months, whether she receives the right to care for her daughter or not, simply because there is a judge negotiating her case. This means that an inheritance dispute can be decided before the first children have already died. And that means that long-term overdue reforms can finally be developed, because the two, three additional workers, which one considers necessary, can finally be employed in the Ministry of Justice. We Greens have taken action to enable all of this, which is sustainable; and for the third time, we have succeeded in this direction. These are no more single steps, which is already a way – the green path of justice policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Because we know what justice means, what independent, good, quality justice for a society means: that legal peace is not abstract, but quite concrete, security about how it goes on. This does not apply only to civil law. As a criminal defender, I know how painful long criminal proceedings can be and how one goes up the walls if one still does not know month after month whether and for what one is ever accused of. Some in this house know that too, and I envy none and none of them. They all have the right, like every person in Austria, not only to the suspicion of innocence and to a fair process, but also to a quick decision. It takes money, it has to be negotiated every year, and we have done it again this year – the green path of justice policy. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] In this way, however, independent justice should not only be taken seriously in its financial needs, but also defend it against attacks, regardless of which side, and draw the line between the ever-acceptable, yes-needed criticism of individual decisions on the one hand and the evasion, the flat-rate criticism of the whole authorities on the other, which we do not allow – that is also the green path. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In doing so, this court has long since not always decided in our sense, sometimes a first-class court next to it and there needs to be a correction in the instance, sometimes one rejoices at a decision and then experiences that a supreme court comes to a totally opposite outcome, which is really contrary to what we say in Vienna. That such decisions can be accepted even then, without If and But, this also belongs to the rule of law. That's what the famous saying is: You're in God's hand in court and on the high seas! For my part, I am more a follower of: In court, find a good lawyer and a good skipper on high seas, but definitely make sure your boat is okay! It is therefore, our justice, freshly obsolete and deleted, with 4.2 percent more budget on board. We can leave it to water again, this proud ship. It's going to be some storms next year, but it won't go down. – Thank you to the Minister for Justice and all those who have made this possible. - Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e28591	Mr Bayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The word stands with her. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e28612	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! I am very, very, very, very, very, very pleased that it has succeeded in increasing the fees for the court interpreters after 14 years. It was really time. I think this is also a good example of persistent opposition work paying off. We have made very, very many proposals in this regard. We have discussed this over and over again. I am glad that it has now succeeded in really bringing something forward. But it is also a lot to do. There are still a few things that we owe to appreciation in the truest sense of the word, including pecuniary, to those people who contribute to a smooth course of court proceedings, I would say. That is why I am also putting in place the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petra Bayr, ladies and gentlemen, on improving quality standards, fees and working conditions for judicial interpreters, which is also being distributed, which contains the following further claims, which, I believe, are quite appropriate and correct: The payout – I hope that this will really work – should be done by the honoraries to the court interpreters at least within three months. There is still no clear deadline. While the court interpreters have to put their honorary notes very soon, they do not get their money very soon in return. It should also be possible to terminate negotiations in the short term if someone is already on the ground, has already gone to a court in Lower Austria and then the trial does not take place – why – to give compensation, that would be necessary. Retranslations, which are mainly carried out by the police, should not be flat-rate, but should really be paid back on pages, as was the case before. There should also be a fee for journeys over 30 kilometers, because this is also a time absence that the interpreters who drive to a court there have. It should also be added to the police – that is nothing you are directly concerned with now; good interpretation is also important in police work – only judicially sworn and certified interpreters can be added, which can really bring quality into their work, so that the question of trust is also clearly covered. If non-certified court interpreters or court interpreters are attracted, they should be ad hoc and this confession should also be recorded. In addition, it would also be important, once again for a fee or a fee, to have an unbelievably long period of time from now on, an annual index adjustment, at least if, we have discussed this in the Committee on Budgets, a certain percentage of inflation has been exceeded. It is, and in this we all agree, a fundamental human right, even according to Article 6 of the ECHR, to participate in a negotiation that concerns one person – that must be possible for all people – to understand what is being spoken there to be able to express oneself. The court interpreters shall ensure that Article 6 of the ECHR is implemented there. I would like to conclude by thanking the professional association, which was very, very stubborn, very precise also in its demands and also very open for any exchange, and especially at Funda Sel, that is the court interpreter with whom I had a lot of contact, which has provided me with very, very many inputs for the work – thank you. This is really a big step forward for the about 850 court interpreters we have in Austria. So that's fine. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[21:06]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e28784	The application is properly filed and is therefore under negotiation because it is also sufficiently supported. Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e28809	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We have already heard that with this budget we will increase the payments for justice in 2022 compared to the disbursements for the current year, 2021, by 76.4 million euros to 1 872.2 million euros. If you look at the development of the last four years, you can see an increase of 214,9 million euros. The “Kronen Zeitung” evaluates this with the comment: “Home justice is setting up.” In any event, it is safe that much can and could be achieved with regard to ensuring independent jurisdiction and strengthening legal certainty. In this period, 350 additional posts were created due to the increase in the budget, with 55 planning posts for 2022. They are primarily divided into the general administrative service, the consumer authority, the Federal Administrative Court, the execution of penalties and also the prevention of extremism and deradization. Additional planning positions for six prosecutors and seven judges are also provided. All these are measures that strengthen justice. Ladies and gentlemen! As a speaker for the housing and construction of the ÖVP, I can use the discussion to address the issue of housing in connection with this budget. I am talking about the planned increases in the recovery rate towards 3 percent and the planned exit from fossil heating systems. A total of EUR 1,290 million from 2022 to 2025, in addition to additional – at least – EUR 280 million for low-income households, will be made available from 2022 to 2025. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] What does that mean for 2022? – 350 million euros for thermal renovation and for the action Raus from oil, 90 million euros for conversion to climate-friendly heating and 60 million euros for thermal renovation in multi-storey residential construction, thus a total of 500 million euros. In addition, funding for thermal renovations of commercial and municipal buildings in urban cores will be provided. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] That's a huge and important sum to make our building stock climafit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e28858	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e28879	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I have now listened very carefully to learn your values to hear where you say you set the priorities. The only thing I appreciate for you is that you were not overburdened with money by Minister of Finance Blümel – why? You can make a rhyme on it. That the budget is praised here and that the coalition partner, Mr Steinacker, whom I very much appreciate, sees so many free planning posts at the judicial station and says that, therefore, one did not have to act, I see quite differently: There are always free places to plan, due to the retirement and the whole procedure, until they are signed out and re-occupied, but these are peanuts, which are trifles and which justify and do not legitimate that this federal government creates zero planning points for the judicial guard. It's actually a rooster. Mrs Bundesminister, I have listened very closely to you: Apparently – and this is sad – the criminal execution of 28 judicial institutions is only two for you, and these are Asten and Göllersdorf. The implementation of measures should be reformed, not at all a matter, but to leave 26 judicial bodies in the rain for two, that is actually, I must say, a sad story. By the way, I do not deserve to thank the law enforcement officers for continuing to work despite this federal government. Actually, nothing has changed between the last budget and this, I could have taken my speech last time. They have actually done nothing and have done nothing for the execution of punishment – that is the eternal stepchild. I am also very disappointed by you personally, because when you were sitting here as a Member of Parliament, a lot of things sounded different and you have already been able to put great hopes in you. These hopes, you have to say, can actually be buried more or less after this budget. The law enforcement officers have been left there again indisputably alone. I already said it in committee: It doesn't make a good picture. Mr Steinacker has already said it: a small budget. Mr. Bürstmayr doesn't see this, because you think you've been overshadowed with millions, but colleague Steinacker has already recognized it correctly, she has said: a small – that's right – fine – I don't see fine – judicial budget. There are, of course, a lot of things to be heard, namely that it is too little at all corners and ends, at least for the execution of the sentence. As I said, one is already used to that – that is what one has to say. It's just that, nothing actually happens. As Mr Stefan rightly said: They leave a lot of money on the street, with private patients. You just have to do something once. If the Director-General in the Committee says that this is not so easy, I would ask: Get experts, do something, do something, get in the way as long as you're still in the Federal Government and have the opportunity to do something! Talk to Federal Minister Mückstein! He's not a stranger to you. Do something so that something will happen at last and not have any judicial money that you need at all corners and ends, unnecessarily burned! See that the inmates finally get into legal health insurance! This would be only with fug and right, also with regard to taxpayers who have also landed there and who are not private patients other than the inmates. In view of the fact that you, that is, this Federal Government, have made very little progress, I would like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] This request will not be so unknown to you either, we will always come back with him, and the reason for this is not that we are annoying, but that relatively little happens in your house. Finally, I should like to mention the following on this motion for a resolution: I believe that all parties are always in favour of increasing the judicial guard, for increasing – security is important, as everyone will agree. Again to Your house: It does not make a good picture, even if you now create prosecutors' posts, judges' posts, yet in this budget it is clear that six planning points of courts and prosecutors are moving to your home, to the Federal Ministry of Justice Central Office. This does not make a good picture in times like this, if you already have too little. You shouldn't do that. Now, if you keep saying, The mood says that there are zero planning points for the judicial guard, and that is not true either, because we have created four!, then I must say: Yes, these are academic posts for management, they actually don't do anything in the normal sentence. In this sense: Nothing has been achieved. We hope for improvement. - Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[21:16]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e29079	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e29103	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! They all know the statue of the ancient goddess Justitia, which stands before Parliament. She holds two scales in her hand to help her make a just judgment. In order for Justitia to be able to do so, it is our task to deposit these high intentions of ancient times with figures and to make the appropriate financial resources available – and we do. We have already put more money into these scales in the last two years and we will do it again this year. One could put it in other words and say that with this budget, justice has more available by 215 million euros than it did three years ago. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our top goal must also be to ensure legal certainty and legal peace, because these two components ensure internal security, and we do so with this budget. [[Abg. Deimek: Now we know again why Athens is turning away from Parliament: because it is confused with the Justitia!]] I would just like to make two points: We are strengthening the protection of violence. It has already been mentioned today: We want no woman, no child to live in fear of domestic violence, and that is why it is right that we make more money available here and work on it. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Of course, we also want no one in Austria to be afraid of the threats of terrorism, so there will also be more money for the measures in the terrorist package. Mr Margreiter, I would like to address your speech at this point, because you have also spoken about terrorism and extremism and at the same time have put our clubman Sebastian Kurz on stage with extremists and terrorists. I really need to align you: I find that objectionable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] All my colleagues, who always love to point the moral finger to others, I really want to say if they do, always show three fingers back on them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krisper]] [[Abg. Deimek: That's right, that's what Justitia knew and... also said!]] Ladies and gentlemen, a final sentence on the budget: As a lawyer, I am really pleased that this budget of justice also gives the priority she deserves that we make more money, because a functioning justice costs money and that is worth it to us. [[Abg. Deimek: I think that's the... tourist budget!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e29193	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e29225	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we also welcome the increase in the budget. This is certainly very encouraging, and it will show whether this is enough overall, for example, because there is nothing budgeted for the state attorney. The requirements in the area of housing are rising and there is no trace of a housing law reform in the area of rental law. There is a refusal to work, and that has a system. Those who have a lot, for example, have not taken away anything from the big landlords; instead, the average earners are disbursed. The great ones remain unscathed. As an example, I would like to take the Corona crisis: Instead of suspending the cancellations and setting up a fund for the landlords in order to dispel rent residues, you have paid back the renters who are the real victims of this crisis – they have to pay them back with 4 percent interest. Now a great wave of termination threatens, and money will have to be set up for clubs and emergency quarters to catch people. This means that the landlords and the losses have the taxpayers and the tenants. We need real solutions. The problem needs to be solved and not the symptom. – At last, make a rental right that fights speculation, prohibit temporary leases, because they only encourage the speculators and burden the courts! Finally, decide the ordering principle for real estate brokers, which ÖVP old chancellors have just promised in the election campaign, and make laws that work, and thereby the justice healthy, instead of sticking another patch to justice! It's not going on that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e29255	Mr Stocker is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The word stands with him. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e29276	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, they are still pursuing this debate from home. If there is an increase in the budget for justice this year, this is a guarantee that the judicial system will continue to be able to fulfil its tasks and carry out these tasks fully in the future. I say this as someone who has worked as a lawyer in the field of justice for decades, and I have actually come to know a lot of personalities in these decades, who have committed themselves with much commitment, with a lot of competence in the administration of justice – no matter if it is to the judicial board, to the administrative staff or to the public prosecutors or to the case law. This is also the reason why the impact targets, as seen in the budget analysis, are very well achieved. If you look at it a little more precisely, you already notice that there can be a cause for criticism there and there. The WKStA has already been addressed today. Article 3 requires a fair procedure in due time, decision-making and procedure management in an appropriate time. We see that at WKStA the number of procedures that last longer than three years is very high, and 37 out of over 70 procedures are major procedures as read in your ministry's last revision report. If you look at that, you have to ask yourself: Why is that so? – I understand that some procedures – and especially from the point of view of the WKStA – take more time. The question is whether this applies to all procedures listed there. It is precisely the latest developments, I must say honestly, that I am somewhat concerned. I wonder if it is really necessary for a procedure to be inflated in such a way that one no longer knows who is still accused. The question of the Leaks, which has already been discussed here, is also of its origin – although it is technically possible to solve this problem so that one knows where an act is carried outside. – That means, I think you're required. You said in the “Morgenjournal” – I listened attentively – you denied that flat-rate criticism of the prosecutor’s office, especially at the WKStA, is being practiced. - I'll give you the right one. The criticism should be targeted and not flat-rate. But I'd like you to see that vice versa as well. I personally feel that it is also a flat-rate criticism if the WKStA articulates a political influence on procedures, which cannot then be demonstrated, which is expressly referred to as not even by the WKSTA Group leader in the Committee of Inquiry. This is not a one-way street, these are communicating vessels, and it must not be surprising for the judicial system to deal with politics so flatly that it is on this field and has to be criticized. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] One thing I'm saying here, too, because in the morning I've been surprised by it: The opinion of a criminal law professor is here, only because it does not correspond to the content of the opposition and the left hunting society, quite flat - - - - Yes, Mr. Krainer, I know. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I wonder where Mr Krainer's expertise is to deal with this opinion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If the expertise comes from his criminal charges, I know it's not far from her, because they were largely unsuccessful. If, of course, one prefers to read the analyses in the “Falter” and the sharp conclusions of Mr Klenk, then I must say: I'd rather read that of a law professor. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That's just on the verge of it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] What I am saying is that you, Mrs Federal Minister, too, are required that these procedures be decided in more appropriate time, in my opinion, faster. I have also been surprised to note that communication plans are now being created in the WKStA. In any case, I would like to make an investigation plan. I would like you to put your attention not only on the rest but on the work so that we can take decisions very quickly – for that is what the public and the Republic deserved.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e29372	Member of the Commission. — Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e29393	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I'm glad that the plenary room is almost full. It's about justice anyway. It is about independent justice, it is no more and no less than the rule of law and the financing of this rule of law in Austria. We assume that before the law everyone is the same. All should also have equal access to law and case law. I still see some things a little critical, Mrs. Minister. When we come to the question of enforcement: How good is the accessibility of the dishes? – District courts have been blocked. It is no longer easy for all citizens to come to a court. On the question of staff: Yes, the worst cuts have been prevented. Mrs. Federal Minister, you must have had some merit there. But there must also be no long procedures, i.e. there must continue to be improvements in this area. Of course, an independent judicial system must also be worth something to us. In Austria, however, the citizen pays double: It pays over its general taxes, through the regular budget for justice, and the citizen in Austria pays over too high court fees. There's got to be more to be done. The court fees are like taxes, but they should only cover costs. The high fees, as we have already heard, make the enforcement of law more difficult. There is too little staff in the judicial institutions, as there is an urgent need for action. In fact, I find it incomprehensible that in a very remarkable judicial budget, the judicial guard is looking through the fingers. 100 of the 3 300 sites are non-occupied. New planning sites are not created because they say they are not even the old 100 occupied. That's where the ministry has to take care of it. Four planning sites are planned for 2022. In my opinion, the judicial guard has been forgotten in the budget, especially the judicial guard, which is really in use around the clock, day and night. For the implementation of measures: He's still underfinanced. There are additional tasks here. In the course of the action, criminals are also housed with a terrorist background. There is also a need to provide the appropriate resources. In conclusion, however, I must say something to my predecessor, Mr Stocker, and to the private opinion for the former Chancellor: You can't stop that. That the university's logo is depicted on the private report is like a manipulation. That is absolutely incorrect and that is to be rejected. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this opinion, nothing is said about the actual accusations to former Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurzja, namely aid for unfaithfulness. It is a massive attack on the Public Prosecutor's Office for Economic Crime and Corruption. The fact that all these measures, including the search of the house, have been approved by a court, is not received at all. That means that the opinion is for A and F – thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e29442	There is no further word for this. The discussions on this subject are thus over. [[21:31:40]] UG 33: Economy (Research) UG 40: Economy
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e29476	We come to Division 33: Economics (Research), as well as 40: Economics. A joint debate is taking place on this matter. Mr Matznetter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e29505	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister, good evening! We discussed in the committee, I think, on the basis of 2G in the gastronomy and personal service providers. Now, just a few days later, the situation looks much worse. While we are still mocking at the phrase “a summer like then”, originally a lemonade advertising, about the inaction of the Federal Government, every joke happens to you when you only hit the newspaper and see how it is ordered about the current situation. In Salzburg the first triage commission is formed with the question of whether within a few days it could happen exactly what was the reason for all the measures of the last 600 days. Mrs. Minister, it is no longer limited to the fact that Martiniganslesen will be less guests, as we were able to discuss last week, or whether the hairdressers are less busy. The situation is such that in the fastest time of Austrian stationary trade, namely the pre-Christmas season, more than 30 percent of the population are not allowed to enter the shops except food trade, tobacco bars and drugstores. I ask you today, Mrs Federal Minister, with a much greater focus than in the Committee: What do you have in the cook? Why have not all Corona aid been extended to at least March next year? Why not, Mrs. Federal Minister, how could that be? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Even in lemon advertising, it says: “a summer like then, ” not: a late autumn like then. If you haven't done anything by the government already in the summer, it might be good and beneficial to tell us today in your chapter that there is what budget resources you make available for it, because so far we only know what Gernot Blümel says to us: Well, that's not a problem, until the end of the year you can still apply for something, I have an authorization for 5 billion euros. – To be honest: That's not how it is! Therefore, the cards on the table; immediate action; Extension from me also those corona aid measures that didn't work so well anyway, but we have many small shops that end up in the end. As far as stationary trade is concerned, Mrs Federal Minister, we do not have to pretend: Those who are not allowed to go will not buy Christmas gifts! Jeff Bezos will make another billion with it, and they will never return to stationary trade again. If you do not act, then thousands of people in that country will be at risk. If the Minister of Finance claims that there are still measures, please tell me today what I can say to any individual individual company or SMEs who say they no longer have money to live. Hard-term fund? ==References== October was the last way to apply for September. It's out of here. ==References====External links== To apply for the AMS or the ÖHT on December: Be quick! Mrs Bundesminister, such a non-work, an inactivity, a pendulum watch sleep, can't do that! You have to put the cards on the table today so that they can act quickly. I can go to the weekend 13, 14. March. In order to remove the paragraphs on the right to full earnings from the Epidemic Act, you did not need 5 minutes. Half a million people you have the claim to who have been there for 100 years, removed. That's where you were very fast. What's the matter now, why isn't that on the table? I shall put forward a motion for a resolution on this question. I hope that the government groups will have a decision to do so, extending everything to make it clear on Thursday how it goes on. We will not ignore you on this question. We have burned you for the mistakes last year, and we will not tolerate now that human health has already been threatened because of inactivity that their economic existence is still at risk because of inactivity. This is not our idea of politics. This is not our idea of how crisis management should take place. I call once again on the government parties to put this on the table immediately. Supplement: You can also continue on the issue of winter tourism, because Mrs. Bundesminister Köstinger travels around and asks the Germans to take the children out of quarantine, if we are a high-risk area, will not be a contribution. I hear that at the hotels, as far as winter tourism is concerned, 30 percent and more have been cancelled in a few days. Then I hear that employees can't work because they come from Hungary and have a Sputnik vaccine, tourists can't come because they have another vaccination, which is admitted to the WHO, but not applicable to us. Fix when You do this, ladies and gentlemen? Can anyone explain this to me? We have 2G in the hotels and in the gastronomy. Why can't the Russian tourist check in with us? Why can't the Chinese tourist check in? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] What's the point? Just because the Western corporations were faster at the EMA? So we don't have to cut ourselves into our own flesh, and please – should I look over to the green side? – please make sure that we have half a liberality, at least a fuel of our winter tourism can save. That would be a contribution: that if you have already celebrated a “summer as at the time” you at least do not continue with this pendulum sleep method. This is not only life-threatening for health but also for the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e29581	Mr Haubner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e29603	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter, when we look at the last months, we can see that we have done everything we can to accompany and support entrepreneurs in this difficult time by the Federal Government or by the government parties. We have also taken over 40 billion euros to support the economy, to secure jobs and to keep Austria competitive in this respect. We will now continue to do everything we can to implement these measures in such a way that the economy continues to be well affected by this pandemic. However, I would like to say a few things about the economic budget for 2022 today, and above all I would like to draw out two points which are set out in this budget as priorities. On the one hand, of course, it is a matter of continuing to accompany entrepreneurs in the investment premium, because that is a very important point. This year, we already have about 200 million euros in the investment premiums for small and medium-sized enterprises. micro-enterprises, and now it is about us continuing to accompany this offensive measure. This is a very important point. I mentioned it today: 1 billion euros of investment premium will generate 10 billion euros of investment. We have planned 5 to 7 billion euros of investment. In this respect, this is an important point for the economy and, above all, for securing jobs in Austria. The second very important point is the development of the Austrian Business Agency and the expansion of the ABA Unit Work in Austria into a comprehensive competence center. It is very important that we also set up a number of activities in the skilled workers sector, and this is also illustrated in this budget accordingly. Mrs Minister, I think you are setting the right priorities, and with our support you can definitely expect. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e29648	Mr Angerer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e29669	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mr Haubner has just said that the government has taken over EUR 40 billion so that the economy can succeed and that we can survive the crisis. I would say that you have made 40 billion euros of new debt, and these debts will have to repay the entrepreneurs and workers in that country. You made debt last year at the expense of the future of this country and did not take money into your hands! Mrs. Minister, I'm sorry I'd like to be kind to you, but I just can't. When I look at what's happened in the last few days: This is management by Chaos and a Déjà-vu, because we have experienced this before last year. The budget on which we should actually discuss today – now it is about the economy – is already a major factor on the day on which it is presented, because the restrictions – Mr Matznetter has put it right – are affecting very many and, above all, small companies, which, of course, again have a complete loss of revenue. We have already pointed out in the Committee that, of course, appropriate measures and new aid will have to be needed again. New debts will have to be made again, the budget will not last again. You'll just have to do that. So far, you haven't done it. They make regulations that are entirely practical. We have 3G rules, we have 2G rules. Meanwhile, the entire PCR test system has collapsed throughout Austria, it no longer works. The workers no longer come to their businesses because the employees are threatened with penalties of 500 euros and the entrepreneurs of 3,600 euros. You don't even have the opportunity to perform these tests because it just doesn't work anymore. This cannot be referred to as management by chaos. When I look at how you prepare these rules: They are one of the few – I have already said this in the Committee – who once worked in the private sector for a few days. From the former Federal Chancellor to the half cabinet, no one worked a day in the private sector. I don't expect them to understand how it works in a company, but you have to understand. You'd have to hurt your heart if you moved into an entrepreneur. I now give you two examples of how absurd these rules are. Now, you're going to assume: A tattooer is not vaccinated and a hairdresser is vaccinated. The hairdresser can now be tattooed by her colleague, the tattooer. Conversely, however, one must not let the other cut one's hair. Or you're going to a hairdresser shop, and there the boss and the staff aren't vaccinated. Both may work there all day, but they must not cut each other's hair. That's a total nonsense! Who else can believe this nonsense? There's no one else to go in there! No one's involved, either, because all of this is completely practical. You're totally in addition to your entire policy, and it just doesn't work. Now, if we look at what you are doing for the location Austria, we see: There's a complete lack of it, too. The local policy of this government, I would like to say, is massively manageable. We still have the highest tax burden, we still have massive bureaucratic obstacles in our system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] The high additional wage costs are still a topic, the cold progression is not abolished; The lack of skilled workers, the lack of apprentices – nothing is done about it. The only thing that comes to your mind is that you want to expand the red and white red card and see that more employees from abroad come to Austria. This is now the impact assessment defined in your budget and your goal: that you extend the red and white red card accordingly and thus try to bring workers, skilled workers, to Austria. But that you finally do something for your own people, that you once again see that more of us are starting to teach that more is going on the professional profession again and saying: That's something done!, you don't. Any request from us that concerns apprentices, whether it was the Blum bonus to support entrepreneurs, whether it was the apprenticeship premium I will bring back now, you categorically reject. They do not do anything to allow more people in Austria to start teaching, thus starting a teaching, and thus being available to professionals in the industries. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: This is stupid!]] If you look at the sectors – a tourist is here, the colleague from the Gail Valley – you have to say that it is really terrifying that in the gastronomy sector from 2005 to 2019, the number of apprentices has halved. That is to say, the industry still trained 14,000 apprentices at the time, and today it is with 8,000 apprentices. Overall, it is only 7.5 percent who train tourism in apprentices. There the industry and the craft are still top with 50 percent. At least they still teach apprentices, but the touristists do not form apprentices. Now, as Minister of Economic Affairs, I would ask myself the question: Why is that so? Why don't they train apprentices? – Because the conditions do not fit because the apprentices do not deserve anything because they have half the income of a mason apprentice and because the teaching is not attractive. You're not ready to do something to make it change. Before I submit the application for a degree grant, another point on your corona policy: When our clubman presented Plan B about three weeks ago, that you should finally make a change of strategy – you say daily: vaccination, vaccination, vaccination, vaccination, the people are pushing into the vaccination, children are pushing into the vaccination, every businessman and the staff are pushing into the vaccination – you have made fun of it. Klubobmann Wöginger made fun of it. Today I read in the “Exxpress”: “Schramböck criticizes mosquito chaos: ‘Focus should lie on medicines’. – Madam Minister, I am pleased that you obviously change the strategy and now also rely on medical treatment. [[Abg. Loacker:... I don't know if that speaks for the kickl!]] But it totally contradicts the current line of this federal government. Maybe you can explain this to us. I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm looking forward to your approval. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[21:49]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e29809	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Member of the European Parliament has been called upon to speak on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e29834	Mr President! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! The issue is the budget for economics and research, and a number of points have already been dealt with. I want to take three things that are particularly important to me. One issue that has not yet been dealt with is staff, is personnel planning. I would like to thank you for the far-sighted view – I call it – to equip the Federal Competition Authority with additional staff. There is an extension of 43 to 49 employees. This means that the Federal Competition Authority can be even more effective in the future. Why is that important? – For example, because it actively takes action against illegal price agreements and thus guarantees that competition works in Austria. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Merchant.]] Just in September, due to such price agreements, there was a penalty for the construction company Porr, which has already taken the blame. It is the highest punishment ever granted in the Second Republic. This is very important for us because it is about building the construction sector in general, and therefore about real estate, about housing, but also about road construction, about infrastructure in the public sector, about sewerage and water facilities, I can say this from local experience. It is important that the prices are determined correctly. Staff development also takes place in the area of investment control. This is also an important area in which we have only launched a law last year, and it is important that enough personnel are available to make the resolution timely. Investment control is about preventing the possible sale of critical infrastructure by investors from abroad, i.e. from third countries, from EU third countries. A second important point is the investment premium. I would like to say briefly that we have often talked about this, and that has really been a good thing. As funds flow into investment projects by companies, more than a quarter of the projects are ecological investment projects. In this area, around EUR 2.6 billion is spent on investment grants, including digital investment. In this context, as this was also discussed, I would like to mention: We have used the funds from the national development plan, i.e. the EU's reconstruction plan to finance the investment premium. For this we have received a lot of praise from the EU. We were one of the first countries whose plans were even approved by the EU. In that respect, I believe there has really been something good. My third point is the one that Mr Matznetter has already raised very strongly: Of course, we'll be thinking. We will make intensive thoughts about further economic aid, and something will happen too. So far, it has been a good success to support businesses and the working population. This will also succeed in 2022, as I am very confident.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e29888	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e29909	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! We had a very informative discussion in the Committee on Budgets, we were able to talk about many details. Mr Haubner has already mentioned the ABA, where more money is taken into account in order to carry out plant settlements. It is interesting, however, that the targets of the budget are designed for fewer operations. So we take more money into our hands to get fewer businesses. The aim is also to have fewer start-ups in 2022 than in 2020. It is then explained: The number is derived somewhere, bla, bla, bla. – One divides a number out somewhere, and the result is less performance and more money – that is not a goal. The objectives of the budget are therefore to forget. Of course, we can do a lot of work beyond the budget figures. If you look at the tomorrow edition of the “Kurier”, you will read that Wifo chief Gabriel Felbermayr of the government is giving a very bad witness as regards economic assistance and its goal security, because in some areas there has been a visible transfer – I just say: Sales for the gastronomy last November – and you weren't really sure enough in other areas. Felbermayr says that one could have been useful the summer to consider how a promotion must be structured so that it is perfectly safe. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] In any event, in the Committee you have not informed us that this consideration has been made. Maybe she's been made in your house and you told your colleague Blümel: If you do something like that next time, we'll build it up. - we don't know. We have also talked about the investment premium provided for in the tax reform. Yes, it is good for companies to receive an investment premium for investment, but we would have done so more widely. We would have imagined that investments in the form of participation in another company could also be subject to such a premium, for example, because start-ups can be opened up new financing possibilities and reduce the dependence of Austrian corporate financing on the banking sector. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Niss.]] It is also striking that, in the budget, third-party payments have increased substantially to EUR 100 million, and I do not think it is transparent where these EUR 100 million are going and what services are purchased. Now you can say: With a budget of nearly 100 billion euros, 100 million are not much. But that's exactly the essence of a budget: It consists of a lot of small cattle, many small posts, and they give in total a huge pile. So that it's not a mess, but something happening, these little elements have to be something, and you didn't give me that with the strength I wanted. Mr Angerer mentioned earlier that you would ask the Minister for Health to buy more drugs. On the one hand, the Minister of Health in Austria does not make the purchase of drugs – that is either the health care providers or the social insurance scheme – on the other hand: Even if you buy more drugs, that won't work. One can of course buy Mr Kickl's much quoted horse worms, which is sold out in Upper Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] There's a couple of people looking forward to getting it. It is likely to be overdosed because many people accidentally take the portion that was intended for a horse; that is, of course, too much for man. [[Cheerfulness with NEOS, ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] You may also have thought of a drug from MSD, which is a lot in the media, but – think about it! – In order to prevent a serious Covid case, you would have to give this drug 70 000 people. This is then a bit of a scatter loss on the way to the finish, since at the end of the day I'd rather be for vaccination. – Please go immune!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e29991	Mrs Schramböck has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e30012	Mr President. High house! Values Advisors! The Austrian economy is one of the most growing in Europe. And yes, we have invested for it. Just a short while on the speech of the National Council member Anger: It is about each euro being properly and well spent. I do not regret any euro we have invested in the Austrian companies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Yes, we have supported companies in different industries. Yes, we have supported small and large companies. We have supported key activities as well as EPUs. And yes, at different stages of this pandemic, different measures have been necessary – I am standing for that too. We've really invested, we've invested well. I would now like to address the issues of the budget. Let's see what the companies are doing today: It is still the pandemic, it is a topic, it is the shortage of skilled workers, the shortage of labour and the issue of raw materials and energy prices. Before I come to the budget figures, let me go into it a little bit! Against the pandemic, one helps: impfe, impfe, and immunize again. I am not only saying this because it concerns the health of Austrians, but it is also about every job. There is now a need for those who have not yet been vaccinated to wake up, participate and take responsibility, not only for themselves, but especially for the next generations, for our children and for the grandchildren, for it is not God-given and not of course that there is this prosperity in Austria. There must be something to help everyone and everyone. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today I have seen something from Mr. National Councilman Kaniak, FPÖ Health spokesperson, who said: The objective of the ÖVP is “to increase the rate of vaccination”. - Yes, exactly! That is exactly our goal, the increase in the rate of vaccination, because each stitch counts, each first sting, every second sting and every third sting. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] I would like to ask the FPÖ once again to do so and to stop it because it is different from other countries. Look for France, Italy, Denmark! There all parties are closed for vaccination and therefore they have a higher vaccination rate. That's the cause. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would therefore like to ask everyone who wants to go on ice with his children: Let's get the fuck out of here! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] Who's beer? in the inn wants to drink: Let's get the fuck out of here! Who wants to do other things: Let's get the fuck out of here! That's the most important thing that exists right now. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Next, let us look at the topic of skilled workers and workers: At the moment, there is a very important point that we need a mix of measures. Yeah, you're talking to me right: The teaching is important, but we will not solve the apprenticeship problem – the number of which is not enough – with the young people who are now completing a teaching, but we need to go new ways. We need a teaching for adults, we need to see that we also teach adults who want to change, who need to learn something new. We need above all the teaching according to the AHS-Matura. That's a white spot right now, and it's quite, very important that we convince the parents that it's good for the children's career when they teach after the AHS-Matura. Digital education is also important, and more women in Mint professions are also important. I would like to say one thing about the third topic, that of raw materials and energy prices: It is essential to develop infrastructure projects. More energy will be needed in the future, and infrastructure projects will need to be rapidly expanded. We're good at an acceleration. Putting impulses was our common task, and we have mastered it. One of these impulses has been mentioned: the investment premium. For this purpose, 1.5 billion euros are set in the 2022 budget in the UG 40. The ABA also has more budget, 1.5 million euros. It is about settlements and also about the subject of skilled workers. The budget for the construction budget is EUR 68.5 billion. And yes, we also invest in the pharmaceutical sector, in the Lifescience area. With EUR 58.6 million, Austria will also help to become a pharmacy in Europe to further expand the research of vaccination and medication. When I've been talking about medications, it's about drugs on the one hand and vaccines on the other. Yes, there are companies that have just launched drugs against Covid, and yes, it is important that Austria is there far ahead in order to obtain these drugs, because this is an authorisation that will be granted by the EU in mid-November. Another investment area lies in the field of microelectronics, in the creation of start-ups. All these are areas in which we invest. Of course, we also invest in the field of digitalization. The Digitalisation Fund is donated with 80 million euros, SME digital with 5 million euros. The innovation camps are inside, digital pro boatcamps and digital innovation hubs. For digital administration, it is essential that we further expand. We have seen it, we have come forward in the Desi index – this is the digital index – from place 13 to place 10, and that is the result of hard work by many. That's four components: The issue is digital education, infrastructure, digitisation in companies and the fourth point is digital administration. Our strongest areas are digital human capital and digital administration. That's where it's up to you to move on. This is also foreseen in the budget accordingly. We have the instruments to support our economy. I would like to say one more thing: We have put in place the right measures, and we will continue to take the right measures in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e30133	Member of the Court of Justice has been notified of his speech. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e30155	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! If you discuss today's budget, you should also make the last one and a half years of revision happen. We come out of a phase in which our economy has attracted enormously, in which there has been an enormous upward trend until suddenly this pandemic has reached us and so much has collapsed. It has been shown – thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister – that you have reacted with many other ministries very quickly and, as you have mentioned, flexibly when it comes to putting these aid as broad as possible, putting it up in a wide variety as it actually reflects the domestic economy in order to help as quickly and efficiently as possible. That's a good thing. If we have this budget now, we see that we are in a new phase. The economy attracts again, but the pandemic is not yet over. I'm convinced: If necessary, the mentioned flexibility will be reflected again. I can calm everyone who has stood out here – colleagues Angerer and many others – and this government has proved it: We'll react. What is basically in there? – First, I call three Is: investment, innovations and impulses. We have an enormously exciting time when it comes to reorganising the economy. There are many start-ups with many new ideas. We will accompany them when it comes to investment and the start-up of the domestic economy or network in Europe and the whole world. We are currently rebuilding our complete energy supply, and that is important. We are currently delivering more than EUR 11 billion in terms of energy supply abroad. That's not necessary. We create, on the one hand, when we convert, security of supply, and on the other, we reduce dependence. What it still needs is, of course, a top training of our young people, our people who are in the work process, so that they can stay at the pulse of time. In this respect too, the priorities in the budget are clearly enshrined. We will accompany people who want to change in the world of work. Young people who enter the world of work will train us top, at different levels. It is also a question of regaining security of supply in many areas in the future. We have now been led to see what it means when some of the economic sectors are no longer in our hands when we are dependent on companies that are scattered far in the world. This too is an eerie challenge for the economy. Many recognize this as an opportunity, and we'll go by their side. – In this sense: Thank you very much, all right? I hope you will agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e30195	Mr Leercher is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The word stands with him. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e30216	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Bundesminister, I have been careful about your comments. You said: Wealth in Austria is not self-evident, but everyone and everyone must make their and their contribution! – There I am waiting for the contribution of this federal government. You know why? – Because the citizens in this country deserved that She's doing your job. You haven't made them for months. Always and time and time again hop You have been predicted by experts in the same mistakes, because you have used the health crisis for the damage of Austria in an exchange with the Freedom Party for political purposes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I tell you, this polarization that you have been looking for from political calculation – that you have not produced any solutions – falls on our minds now. The citizens deserve solutions, and above all one thing: that you work hard for the Austrians and not only in speeches – as lip recognition – of them. You do not use this, you do not re-establish the tax and tax system for small and medium-sized enterprises. They do not remove the pressure from the workers in this country. They continue to write the state of affairs that makes it more difficult for many from day to day. You have to let this happen today, because in this budget template we find nothing at all that would have been done for the economic aid that is now needed – because you have not done what would have been done – to take care of it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Upper Noster]] - We don't see anything. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is clear to me that the Minister of Finance does not like to give you money after the department store Austria. However, they would have had to fight for economic aid to be prepared again – for what will come when a lockdown stands in the room when restrictions are back when 35 percent are not able to shop and Amazon has an advantage as it is set up. That is, if you want to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises, they need the money. “Taste it what it wants,” it once said. We don't see anything in your template. It takes courage to go new ways in the light of the relief from those who have grown up in this country, who have really achieved prosperity. [[Abg. Zarits: The trade unions, right? The unions?]] These are the small and medium-sized enterprises, the workers in this country, the hard-working people who make daily efforts but who do not receive anything from you in this budget. This is a budget of the donors of the turquoise system in short, but not for the citizens of that country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Zarits.]] That's why I'm asking you: Rethink your template again! Give You have the assurance for urgently needed economic aid, and above all create clarity and trust! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e30283	Mr Hauser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e30304	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Schramböck, I am really concerned – actually I must say: very shocked – about you – apparently – ignorance about Covid. I mean, the only thing that comes to your mind is: Vaccines, vaccines, vaccines! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is what the ÖVP Group has been thinking since the beginning of the pandemic: Vaccines, vaccines, vaccines! Look Please – I don't have so much time – take a look at the current Harvard study on the relationship between the vaccination rate and the infections! [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] If you know this current study, you will know that there is no link between vaccination rate and infections. Your opinion that by increasing the vaccination rate the number of infections goes back, is scientifically wrong, as you can still yell in and roar in, you are on the wrong steamer. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Stögmüller:... Science!]] [[Abg. Melchior: But be vaccinated yourself!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They discriminate against the unvaccinated Austrian population, and they divide society to an extent that has never existed at all. [[Call at the ÖVP:Self is vaccinated!]] We argue scientifically. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] What you do is pure populism, which can be reduced to vaccines, vaccines, vaccines. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's all you have to offer. That scares me. Mrs. Minister, you say you did everything. Well, if you lock up businesses officially, you'll probably have to compensate these farms. Do you know what you did? – You have removed the epidemic law. They have replaced a legal claim with a bedding tour. This is the insanity, and this is the shame. I'll tell you one more thing about the outage bonus, because you're just so proud – you too, Mr. Haubner, because you're always in between again and again: Outage bonus for small businesses, current statistics of September: [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Haubner and Mr Zarits.]] [[Abg. Hanger: If you talk so much stupid...!]] 56 percent of small businesses have not yet received a down payment bonus. Money will have already been distributed, but not towards the little ones. Look at your own reports! People always say to me: The EIA politicians are going out to the speaker's desk and say: We're distributing 40 billion euros! Just down with the little ones, there's only a little bit up to nothing arrived, and that's the tragedy. [[Abg. Hanger: Such a nonsense!]] – Please look at the outage bonus yourself – 56 percent! So, now to tourism Last year, through the permanent lockdown you ordered, you have caused a disaster for tourism. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] ==References== From November to May, you have produced a maximum of nocturnal minus. The Swiss have made it different and much better: They applied our safety concepts and were successful.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e30456	Final sentence, please! Your speaking time has been exhausted, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e30472	I'm asking you to get hurt. [[Abg. Stögmüller: closing sentence...!]] Don't go on with tourism! He's been damaged so far, there's a partial lockdown.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e30507	You must formulate the final sentence! Your speaking time is over, you have no other way.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e30523	We have a weakness in equity. Try to eliminate these problems!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e30556	Member Smodics-Neumann has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e30583	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear entrepreneurs! I would like to highlight the budget proposal briefly from the point of view of entrepreneurs and, as Mrs Bundesminister has already mentioned, to begin with the investment premium, which is a major economic driver and will continue to be. Another example is the investment exemption provided for in companies that want to become more ecological. Let's talk about reliefs in the case of company transfers: Old-age companies or family businesses should be able to be handed over more easily and thus also have stocks. Let's talk about the Go-International programme: This is a very important programme, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, to take the first steps in international markets. Let us talk about a labour market package that gives 100,000 jobseekers the opportunity to be trained in a qualified way in order to be, in the future, those skilled workers who need the economy so urgently! Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister, for strengthening dual training – again and again! Thank you also for staying behind, because through the modernisation of the job descriptions and the creation of new occupations, the teaching remains at the heart of time. How successful this dual training system is, also in international comparison, our young professionals proved in September at the European Championships of the professions, where eleven gold medals, twelve silver medals and ten bronze medals for Austria could be won by our young young workers. Thank you and warm congratulations! I was there, you guys were really great. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But let us also talk about reliefs such as the profit-free amount, which will be increased from 13 to 15 percent! Let us talk about the immediate depreciation of low-value goods: 800 euros so far, 1 000 euros in the future, if you support this budget. We are talking, above all, about tax reductions which affect both employers and workers alike! You remember: We have already lowered the first level in 2020, and next year with a possible saving of 650 euros per year is the second level. In 2023, with the third level of tariff, there is the possibility of 580 euros saving per year. To this end, lower and medium incomes will be deducted with the reduction of health insurance contributions from July next year. Since employers and employees are also dad and mom, we must not forget the family bonus – an increase of 500 euros to 2 000 euros. Let me use the last seconds of my speech to clear up with a myth that has been since 13. October, that is, since the budget speech of our Federal Minister, is curated: that the reduction of corporate tax – I may quote, and that is the most friendly quote I have found to avoid a regulatory call – means “tax gifts for large corporations”. I may be allowed to explain briefly – ladies and gentlemen, do not let sand be scattered into the eyes! –: Corporate tax pays all legal persons – such as AGs, GmbHs, cooperatives, associations – if they hold a business of a commercial nature, i.e. are entrepreneurs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberrauner.]] A GmbH can You today or you could already start up with a common capital of 10 000 euros. Half you have to lay down as a barerlag. You already have to explain to me – specifically to the ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy – whether a cosmetic woman who founded her company with a cash deposit of 5 000 euros feels like a large group. So I already have the impression that there is also a great need for funding or a need for recovery, but, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, you have the most profound expert in your midst: Dr. Matznetter can explain exactly what the corporate tax is to you as an auditor and tax advisor. [[Abg. Matznetter:...! What are you doing? ...! No answer! No answer!]] [[Call at the SPÖ:The big ones benefit most!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] So we are talking in total of more than 500 000 companies and their employees who are relieved. To leave more money in companies means to strengthen liquidity means to secure jobs means to grow and create jobs. That also means more consumption. More consumption means more tax revenue again, and we need it very urgently to ensure that our state works so that the social network is also tightened up and that our health system works. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Speaking specifically of his previous speech, Mr Hauser von der FPÖ: Dear ladies and gentlemen, forget Please do not go to the third vaccination, to your freshener, so that your very personal health system will continue to have the protective shield above!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e30656	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Here you go. The word stands with you – with a book declaration.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e30684	Mr President. You've been watching the clock.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e30699	I didn't look at the clock, I just said that this time it doesn't need any more excitement. We have enough time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e30714	Yes, I know, but Mr Michi Bernhard has told me that I have a theoretical 15 minutes time now, but I do not want to earn strength, but rather to earn popularity and will not take advantage of these 15 minutes. [[Abg. Hörl: I can't do that anymore!]] - What do you say? – He provokes me, but it won't be 15 minutes. [[Call the ÖVP:Now it's no use anymore!]] [[Cheerfulness and further calls at the ÖVP.]] Mrs Bundesminister, one thing I would like to say very clearly: You've been a manager. As a manager, you have to realistically assess. It's not just me, but, I believe, many people in the country are nervous when we always hear: We're the best, there's the best! – Unfortunately, we are not, and I will also give examples. I believe that in a political debate it is much more sensible to consider what we can do better. There's a big need to make something better. I would now like to talk about research, I would also like to talk about the location of research, and unfortunately it does not look so good. I have already quoted a number of emails from researchers in our country today, which have made the scientific hostility, in particular by Mr Kurz and Mr Haslauer, very affected, because this is, of course, damaging to our location. I would now like to quote the president of cancer aid, Professor Paul Sevelda, who says that this form of “disavowing scientific experts” of course harms our country. Then he says something very essential that was so not known to me in this form, namely: The anti-scientific mood in the country “is also evidenced by the fact that [...] successful clinical research groups such as the [...] Austrian Breast and Colorectal Study Group and the AGO (Austrian Gynecologic Oncology Group) do not receive or receive any financial support from the public authorities. less than 1% of clinical research is currently being funded in Austria.’ There's definitely something you need to correct. [[Federal Minister Schramböck: Are in the budget!]] Something similar writes to me Professor Zielinski, of whom one also knows that he is a world-renowned researcher, and he also says that of course this science creation hurts us massively. Because the topic of medication has appeared: I also spoke to Professor Greil, and he also says that we are just too slow in the production of drugs and that of course the public-hand initiative would also be helpful. The next point I've been talking about is artificial intelligence. Now you can say: It's too little human there, what do we do with the artificial? Unfortunately, we are not far ahead either. There is today a statistics from Eurostat: Only 5 percent of Austrian companies use technologies of artificial intelligence. Countries that are being cut down by this EIA – Spain, Italy, “breaks up in their systems”! – are significantly higher; Ireland: 23 percent – perhaps Mr. Kurz was there – Malta: 19 percent. So stop telling me we're the best everywhere! Unfortunately, it's not us, but we can get better. A next point – because you have always referred to the question of supply chains – is: That is, I think, very important, and we are coming to China. Now I know I have to be careful with you because you have such a slope to clappolibra. [[irradiated]] I'll give you the book, but only if you donate something for the "Kurier" learning house. Then I'd like to give you the book, and it's really worth reading, but having this with the donation for the school, I think everyone will get along. [[The speaker presented the book on Xi Jinping to Federal Minister Schramböck.]] The book by Stefan Aust was also presented in the “Cultur Monday” yesterday. Xi Jinping always says: The first industrial revolution made Britain the ruler of the world – it's interesting that he says that, as one sees what is essential to it: Master of the world! – the second industrial revolution, of course, the United States, and then it is quite clear that digitization – keyword digitization! - What to do? – Of course, she is supposed to make China the ruler of the world. We know we already have great dependencies. You're the professional. In the field of telecommunications there are experts who tell me that without Huawei you can't do certain things at all, so there we have also fallen back – also troublesome! Now, of course, one cannot have any interest in China being bad. Former Fed President Yellen said: If China gets a serious financial problem – Evergrande et cetera – then the whole world economy will suffer! – Of course we don't want to. But we must act self-confidently. We have received a great warning today from the Chinese ambassador to the European Union. What did he say? – He said: The EU is risking further disruptions in the global supply chains with its policy – to become more autonomous itself! That, ladies and gentlemen, is a threat. He says they, the Chinese, want a higher degree of self-sufficiency – Xi Jinping even says autonomy – but we want to agree on that? This goes so far as to increase the EU's trade deficit against China, i.e. the dependence anyway. All of this speaks of bringing us together, of course, together in the EU. If I hear this, We'll pay for something. – We get more out of it, and if we do not do it together in the EU, then there is no such thing. So have fun with the Austrian Chancellor if he wants to negotiate any agreement in China! Austria is a medium-sized Chinese city from its inhabitants, and so we are taken seriously. Of course, we only have a chance together. But I really want to ask you: Tell your colleagues in the ÖVP that they should stop science hostility, and secondly: We need more money for research! It must be more targeted. The conversations of the last days taught me a lot again. This dialogue with science needs to be strengthened, perhaps some colleagues here also believe that vaccination is important, that drugs are important and that only science guarantees that we continue to have human progress, and the house mind – by the way – does not harm. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e30794	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e30816	Nearly €2.2 billion for science and research – a very successful budget for our location and for our future! Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this budget can be seen. Independent experts praise it. The opposition is, as always, dissatisfied, but that is obviously in the nature of the matter. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This budget includes very important points: in research, for example, microelectronics – tag chips – hydrogen, vaccine, drug research, and a large part also flows into the investment premium. I remind you: This investment premium has helped us to get out of this great unemployment, and we have achieved a good economic upturn. If you look at the numbers of unemployed, you can see that they are better than before the crisis. The internationalization offensive, talents, professionals and digitalisation for society, economy and administration – all this is included in this very good budget. Of course, we all live in challenging times now. It is not easy, it is true, it is also difficult for the economy, but I believe that recovery, stability and sustainability are very much on a very, very good course with this budget. One thing I would like to say now: Mr Hauser – I do not see you right now, but if you are not in the hall, I hope your colleagues will tell you – I think you should listen to your speech again and look at it, I think your statements are extremely dangerous. I have to say quite honestly: If you don't see a connection between vaccination rate and infection, you should go to a stop of thinking. I still have everything so good in the ear, you've always said there's no excess mortality, it's all harmless. It is incredible what we have been through in the many months so far, as everything has been heard from your group. It's very dangerous if you don't turn around now and now don't say to the people: Please go immune! Only by doing so can we finally end this slavery through the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e30859	Mrs Oberrauner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e30882	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear spectators at home! Before I come to the budget presented, I would like to talk about some of the objectives that this budget addresses. The declared aim of the Federal Government is to bring Austria to the international stage in the field of research and technology by 2030 and to further increase the international visibility of research and research and innovation in Austria. Unfortunately, these goals have been performed in recent weeks. In connection with research and science, the Federal Chancellor talks about crystal balls, and the head of state of Salzburg makes a public joke about scientists. It would have been better to comply with the recommendations of scientists and to adopt data-based measures. That was neither a recommendation for Austria nor a famous page for the site, which is actually not to blame. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to the budget itself: The 2022 budget shows a relatively high rise in the right direction. We are in a huge technological transformation, which is naturally accelerated and fueled by digitalisation and new innovative technologies in the field of environmental protection and climate protection. As an industrial nation, it is important for us to support the economy with good conditions and to ensure that we have competitive companies in the areas of new technologies, jobs and tax revenue – that is, our budget, which we distribute here. The budget investments in the fields of microelectronics, life science, drug research, hydrogen are sustainable and innovative and therefore good, right and important. However, the increase in the budget is mainly due to the temporary projects. Between 2024 and 2025, according to the Federal Financial Framework Act Means again drastically shortened. The small remaining increase compared to 2020, almost 10 million euros, is largely consumed by inflation. Without the funds from the EU Building Fund and the Development and Resilience Plan, 2025 would be even less available than 2019. Why, despite this challenge and the self-esteemed goals of finally opening up to the innovation leaders, such a budget is not going to happen to me. The targets for 2022 are also not ambitious. I really found a treat there: In the case of women in senior positions in projects funded by the FFG, an increase of 25.7 percent in 2021 is expected to be 26 percent – one listens and marvels: 0,3 per cent! – the goal has already been achieved. So I don't think the goal needs to be set, because if you don't achieve this, you're somehow not right in this area. The importance of science and research for the industrial site of Austria: In view of the rapid international progress, technological progress, we must succeed in making businesses competitive in Austria. This includes a clear commitment to a comprehensive budget, including risk capital for start-ups and a comprehensive budget for applied research, which helps businesses the most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e30929	Mrs Kaufmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e30950	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House, but above all Dear Seers and Seers too! As an entrepreneur, I know that at the moment there are many entrepreneurs who have sleepless nights that break their heads about how things will continue in the next few weeks and months. I can certainly tell you today how this has already been said by the Minister and, ladies and gentlemen, by the way, the Committee has also said: There will also be support for areas particularly affected – that is the event area, which is the leisure area. Mr Matznetter from the SPÖ, I understand that you are here and saying: For God's sake, nothing happens and nothing has been announced that there are support! . Mrs. Minister has already told you in the Committee that it is important to make a targeted decision, and that there are support measures for companies that they really need. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I know this is totally difficult for a social democrat to understand, but a healthy company does not want to be dependent on the public. [[Interlocutory calls from Members Erasim and Matznetter.]] For this reason, many entrepreneurs prefer to pursue their activities, stand on their own feet, and we only need to provide those support that really needs it. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] The past has proved that the last months of this pandemic have proved that there are support measures where they are needed. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! The real trigger for the situation we are in is the mood makers in the FPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Erasim]] They are responsible for the fact that many people in Austria simply cannot be vaccinated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] They are responsible for our having the situation today that we have a 2G rule and therefore many people have to exclude their own protection from the leisure field. We must all ensure that we oppose this mood of FPÖ so that as many people as possible can be vaccinated in our country so that we can live well without this pandemic. As long as this pandemic is there, as long as there are these infection numbers, it will not be possible to pursue a normal leisure activity. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But that must be our common goal. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Finally, as an apprentice speaker, I would like to focus briefly on the issues that have already been raised today. We thank God, also thanks to the support measures that teachers can maintain. Today, we have the situation that we have more open apprenticeships across Austria than job seekers. We have created the framework conditions for this. Now it is also important that we not be unsure that we do not misrepresent the teaching and that we convince many young people to also take this course of training, because these are the professionals we will need tomorrow. Thank you, Mrs Minister, for your commitment in this field! We as government parties will actively support this from Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e31052	Mrs Becher is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e31074	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the economic policy of EIAs and Greens, often significant means of taxation – unfortunately often with little benefit, sometimes also for damage. I would also like to give a specific example: In the economic budget, a million-severe loss from the turnover tax from the field of non-profit housing is estimated. The government is planning to reduce the turnover tax on so-called rental apartments. I do not know if this is because of ignorance or also because of evil, because the Austrian tenants, but also the affected house buyers, have nothing of it. From cheap, price-regulated apartments you make expensive apartments if the apartments of non-profit builders are privatized. After some time, they are often rented or left empty. This makes living in Austria expensive. So who benefits from this price reduction? – The cooperatives themselves can set the price, are not bound by it. That is to say, within the market value they set it themselves, which naturally increases the scope of the builders, and the taxpayers finance, so to speak, a basket money for the builders. There is something else from the point of view of housing policy: The budget does not provide for the creation of a housing investment bank. This is a very large weakness, because at low interest rates and high inflation, builders are very difficult to obtain long-term financing. This should have been avoided by the ÖVP and the Greens. I'll get you together. Overall, the budget is under way from the point of view of housing policy. The Austrians will also have to pay month after month for the apartment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e31116	Mr Egger is speaking on behalf of the PSE Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e31137	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I come to the real subject, allow me to make three comments! First remark – an observation of the whole day –: It seems to me that the SPÖ's basic text of speakers is always the same as the businessmen, one tries to push class struggle forward, and one tries to make government policy ready. [[Abg. Greiner: Haha!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Second story: Mr Lercher, you said that the Federal Government was not doing anything for small and medium-sized enterprises. – I understand that you don’t notice this, because if you’re on the move in class struggle and you’re trying to hate the entrepreneurs, you can’t be with the companies to find out that 75 percent of the assistance has benefited small and medium-sized enterprises – thank you. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] As Mr Brandstätter, as a representative of the economy at NEOS, is also thinking about progress and development in the enterprises, I can reassure him: Leave You're looking for the Austrian economy! Entrepreneurs invest a lot in research and development and do not need wise advice from you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fireplaces.]] Now I come to the real subject: I spent the summer with President Mahrer very much on the road in the Austrian economy, and we have heard a topic over and over again: [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] The labour force is missing. [[Call the SPÖ: Is that a first speech?]] Therefore, I am very glad that as an economic association we had the idea of setting up an expert or labour force monitor with which we have succeeded in experiencing once how many open places there are actually in Austria. Some 110 000 are reported to the AMS. We all know that this does not correspond to the actual number. Therefore, we have tried to absorb job platforms with an IT system and see how many open jobs actually exist. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You won't believe we landed at 250 000 open spaces. This is almost the same as the number of jobseekers in this country. We must do everything we can to close this gap. That is why I am very glad that the Federal Minister has decided to put a great deal of emphasis on the development of work in Austria in the field of the Austrian Business Agency. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Erasim.]] There, 1.5 million euros will be invested to provide the appropriate labour force potential. [[New call of the abg. Erasim.]] – Don’t worry, you agree to the budget!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e31246	We come to the last speaker – grand finale –: Mrs Ecker. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e31268	Mr President. While we are discussing the 2022 budget here in the House, the number of coronafalls continues to rise. A symbol of this is the situation we have in Salzburg: The Salzburg Uniklinikum has sent an overload notice to the head of state, as medical care can soon no longer be guaranteed. This shows how dramatic the situation is, Mrs Minister, but it also shows the failure of the system in short, which you too belong to. According to the Epidemic Act, the federal government has a clear responsibility. Although there is now a lockdown for non-vaccinations, which I consider to be completely wrong, the number of cases in Austria continues to rise. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Many wonder when the next lockdown comes for all of us. The damage to the economy is already enormous due to the partial lockdown: Due to the 2.5G rule or the 2G rule, the economy has to book large sales losses. Calls for new business aid are getting louder and louder. I too am an entrepreneur, and I can only tell you that these calls are rightly getting louder. Mrs Minister, there is an urgent need to provide for this in the 2022 budget. It needs a protection for our entrepreneurs who have lost or will lose much of their revenue through Corona. An important instrument that has proved successful is the Hardening Fund. It must be extended until 2022. I ask you here, Mrs Minister: Why is there nothing on the table yet? You now have a deadline by Thursday, Mrs Minister, because I put the following motion for a resolution, which will be put to the vote on Thursday: [[Quoted print version removed]] We now need a policy that acts and does not see eyes drive our country to the wall. We need one another's policy, and we need a policy that does not divide society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this sense, I wish you all a good night. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[22:49]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e31404	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. There's no more word message coming from us. I am now interrupting the session by Wednesday, 17th. November 2021, 9 o'clock. Negotiations will be conducted with subheadings 21: Social security, 22: Pension insurance, and 21: Consumer protection, continued. I thank you for your attention, the meeting is interrupted. [[22:50:04]] [[The meeting would be held on Tuesday, 16 December. ==References====External links== November 2021, resumed at 9.05 a.m.]] [[09:05:38]] Continued the meeting: 9.05 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e31456	I'm allowed to interrupt 129. Resumption of the meeting of the National Council. For today's session as prevented, MEPs Kira Grünberg, Dipl.-Ing. Georg Strasser, Elisabeth Feichtinger, BEd BEd, Dr. Christoph Matznetter, Herbert Kickl, Wolfgang Zanger, Michel Reimon, MBA and Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e31509	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: Federal Minister for Digitalization and Economic Location Dr. Margarete Schramböck is Mag. Claudia Tanner and Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr. Michael Linhart represented by Federal Minister for Agriculture, Regions and Tourism Elisabeth Köstinger. In addition, Federal Minister for Labour Mag. Dr. Martin Kocher, who is staying in another Member State of the European Union, by Federal Minister for Women, Family, Youth and Integration MMag. Dr. Susanne Raab. I may announce that the meeting will be transmitted from ORF 2 to 1 p.m., from ORF III to 7.15 p.m. and then in the TV library. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e31575	A day-blocking period of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been decided for today’s meeting day, so that the following speaking times may arise: ÖVP 176, SPÖ 122, FPÖ 99, Green 90 and NEOS 72 minutes. The speaking time of Members without club membership is a total of 36 minutes and 5 minutes per debate. I can still point out that this evening Parliament will be irradiated red in memory of the Christians worldwide. Sadly, the Christian members of the faith are now the largest group of persecuted believers. Christians are greatly persecuted in the Middle East, in Africa and Asia. There is also an exhibition in the Augustinian Church. Tomorrow, the Parliament will be irradiated for Orange the World orange. The breakdown of consultations is known. We continue the budget consultation. [[09:07:37]] UG 21: Social affairs UG 22: Pension insurance UG 21: Consumer protection
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e31630	We start with UG 21: Social affairs, UG 22: Pension insurance, as well as UG 21: Consumer protection. I should like to welcome the Minister of State quite warmly. Member of the Stäger, who starts our reign, is mentioned in the floor. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e31658	Good morning! Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Especially dear spectators! The most important of today's day in the morning: The pensions are safe! – This is the crucial question. Why is that so crucial? – Because we realize that in the crisis just as we are currently experiencing it, it is important to give people safety. We have just experienced in the crisis that it is the social state that gives people the security that they can live as they want to live. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I keep saying this: The freedom of people we are so proud of, which is the European idea, can only be achieved by creating collective security. If we are talking today about the budget chapter on social security, the Social Ministry and pensions, then the first important note is: It has been shown in history that the Austrian pensioners can rely on the safety of pensions. I also say something clearly: It is and it is necessary to ensure our pension system so that people who have worked for 45 years can retire free of charge. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Belevovich and Mr Wurm, for his support.]] Mr. Federal Minister, the Greens made a mistake. They are responsible for the withdrawal of this scheme. 45 years are enough – that must be a principle that applies to all professional groups. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We will also decide on the increase in pensions this week. It is also important that there is an inflation adjustment of pensions, that people's pensions retain their value. That's an important thing. As a social democracy, we would have wanted to have a significant increase in minimum pensions, in particular. We will see how the government will behave. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There will be speakers after me who will regret the pension system. They're gonna say we can't, we can't afford it all. If you look more closely at the figures in the budget, you can see that the workers and employees in Austria pay the pensions for most of them themselves. In 1955 it was agreed that a third of the state's pensions must be co-financed. [[Abg. Loacker: Legend is not true!]] This has not been the case for workers and employees for a long time. This is only the case with the self-employed and the farmers. They should also have their pension, but it can't be - - – Mr Loacker is already excited. [[Abg. Loacker shakes the head.]] Then it fits when he's upset, I'm right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Worm: So far he's still quite calm!]] When you look at the story – I took it back, especially for Mr Loacker –: [[keeping the copy of a newspaper section in height]] In 1955, it was a pity that this could not happen. 1955, I wasn't in the world yet, people already felt sorry. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, pensions have been paid on time every month since 1956, and the Austrians have been able to rely on them. Let's see that this is true in the future too! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e31745	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to - Please, that's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e31772	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Dear colleagues! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I'll start like this once: We owe a lot to people in care, but not only in care, but throughout the health sector. It cannot be understood in words what they did during this difficult time. A thank you, of course, does not apply, weitem does not stop – they need improvements. Therefore, back to care. We don't know about the care problems just since yesterday. That's something one government has been pushing ahead of another – for decades! [[Abg. Belakovich: You too!]] One kind of dizzys with little reförms, one hopes that it will be rich for the legislative period, and secretly one hopes that in the next government one will not be responsible for the subject. For decades nothing has been done, and now the Green Minister for Health, next to the biggest pandemic ever, should somehow still be able to bring the largest care reform ever to the table. [[Complaint and call for tender with the Greens.]] Precisely: the biggest care reform that is undoubtedly needed. How the care system is built up in Austria, many do not know – ladies and gentlemen, believe me, it is very, very complex – but responsible should and should know. That's where I think of our nine federal states. Many agents in the care are in the hands of the federal states. The federal states are very happy to shift their responsibility to the federal government. The federal government, in turn, cannot do much without the federal states or without cooperation with the federal states. And so it goes on and on – while the nursing staff are losing us, while the care emergency is getting bigger and bigger. Without good cooperation, a serious cooperation, with the countries, with the communities, there will be nothing to improve in the field of care. The biggest problem remains the lack of care force, because nothing can go further without personnel. We can have the best ideas, but if we don't have any staff for it, that won't work. [[Abg. Worm: Then do not make a vaccination obligation!]] As a starting point, a training offensive of 50 million euros is therefore set in the budget for the next three years. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We want to make the training in the care more attractive and manageable. The budget also guarantees the financing of 150 Communitynurses. This is a very special concern to me personally, because Communitynurses use as preventive health concepts in the ideal case already before the need for care and therefore, of course, relieve the caring families, but also the outpatient facilities. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I don't know how many times I said this, but I'm going to repeat it all the time: People in the care have proven that they deliver. People in the care have proven that we can rely on them. This was true in front of the pandemic and this also applies during the pandemic. Really, each and every one of us has seen what these people do under what conditions or, better said, in spite of these ruling conditions for all of us. Now we have to deliver, all of us!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e31840	Mr Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e31861	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! Yes, I would like to join immediately where my previous speaker has stopped: in the appreciation of the care staff. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Government! Where is she, the appreciation? Where is the 500 Euro bonus for the nursing staff? They're still sitting at home waiting. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: They're not sitting at home, they're working something!]] And many will not get him at all, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, because those caretakers - - – what screams [[Abg. Ribo: That's not true!]] You're back in: That's not true!Unknown term type: "%s".? Do you know a nurse who's already got this bonus? – He has not yet been paid, ladies and gentlemen! That's exactly this bad kind of federal government: promised, announced, not paid! We reject this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Work for the caregivers to finally get the bonus! That, I say quite honestly, is, in fact, a frog, because it is finally something done with the salaries. Where are you? – The big Sunday speeches do not help the caregivers out there at all. What are you going to do with, ladies and gentlemen, instead of paying higher salaries? – With a vaccination obligation, all caregivers who have not yet been vaccinated must be vaccinated. There is a Styrian councillor who once sat inside here as a family minister, a certain woman named Bogner Strauss, the nurses who cannot be vaccinated, called “death angel”. Such a policy must be rejected, ladies and gentlemen. This is not the respect that the caregivers really deserve. Federal Minister! It has already said the first speaker Alois Stöger, the pensions are safe. That's good. I have to add, unfortunately, that they are hardly raised this year, and that is bad for this federal government. We have a huge rate of inflation, and the pensions - - you're always yelling between: [[Abg. Ribo: That's not true!]] That's not true! You stood out here and you didn't say a word about the pensions. For you, pensions with 1 300 euros are already big pensions. Live once a month with 1 300 euros, if you think that's such a big pension! This increase in pensions is a shame to the Republic in view of this rate of inflation, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Federal Minister, you are the Social Minister, and I have not heard from you that you want to somehow help the socially weak ones that you want to work for them. You have not prepared anything in your budget at all. We have energy costs going through the ceiling, and there is your comic ecobonus, this eco-electric reform, which will make the energy more expensive in May next year, not yet calculated, ladies and gentlemen. It must be responded that people are getting less and less alive, that the real income that citizens have outside is sinking, very massively. Unfortunately, this is also the case in the case of pensions, and you would indeed have had it in your hand, Federal Minister, to ensure that pensions are increased by at least 3.5 percent in order to be at least able to correct the current rate of inflation. Instead, put yourself here and say that the small pensions will be increased even more. But these are only the smallest pensions that have been raised more, but with 1 300 euros you don't have a big pension, and there are 1.8 percent increase an actual, a real loss, ladies and gentlemen! But it's not just the pensioners, it's the whole population that gets to feel this crisis. The Minister of Finance presented us with a budget here yesterday and then pretended to be a normality. It is a budget that has been calculated in an optimistic way – not a single lockdown, although we know that we are already in the middle again. Now is a lockdown for everyone, then there is a softlockdown. We know the game from the past few years: Lockdown, Lockdown, Lockdown soft, Lockdown hard. This has an impact on the economic situation, on the situation of businesses, workers and thus on families, on the people outside who have had to and must face a loss of real wages in recent years. Many sit at home and are afraid of a cold winter because they do not know whether they can actually afford heating in view of these rising prices. It's useless if you put your head in your papers – that doesn't help people. [[towards Federal Minister Mückstein]] They don't do anything at all. You have not budgeted anything in the social field, which has obviously not interested you at all. One might say from the federal side that there is a heating allowance for families that cannot afford it, for pensioners who can no longer afford it. They have no ideas at all and no approach. We have gone a different way, and we have always gone because we believe it needs support from citizens outside. There is a need for support for employers who are now losing again, because a third of the Austrians are not allowed to go shopping at all. These shift everything back to the Internet – Christmas purchases for the second time on the Internet. What do you think the trade will say? On the other hand, the workers who naturally also feel it when companies have less income. In this sense, I would like to make another request today, which we have already tabled several times: This is the so-called 1 000 euro Austrian voucher. Ladies and gentlemen, a voucher worth 1 000 euros, which the Austrians are to receive, can be redeemable from all companies that actually pay taxes in Austria. This immediately returns to the Austrian tax pot. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This ensures that this money actually flows back into the Austrian tax pot. I would ask you to vote in favour of this. It is a discharge for our citizens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[9:22]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e32008	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e32033	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! We are discussing the chapter on social, pension and consumer protection this morning, and at the same time I note – because it has not yet been expressed in the previous speakers – that is: I think we can really be satisfied with the Social Budget for 2022. There are some priorities, there is a real increase in the social budget. Because the area of pensions has already been addressed: We also have a very good budgetary situation there, because – and I believe that is the essential point – the economic development is significantly more positive than it was originally adopted, both for 2021 and then for 2022, and the contribution benefits have attracted accordingly. That's why this area is getting well over the rounds. A sentence on this matter to colleagues Stöger – I will focus more on the care of my speech –: Yes, it is right and it is our top goal – and that must be it – that our pensions, the pension system are insured and that we also carry out corresponding pension increases, as they are now planned. But what is not the case is that we differ in the discussion: Of course, our access is always that, if it is the goal of securing pensions, it always needs a turning of spherical screws, because we simply have a demographic development that makes it necessary through a higher life expectancy – fortunately – and many other factors. I think there's always got to be turned and screwed. We do, too, and this is sustainable access. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the area of classical social budget and on the topic of care: A number of priorities are already being put in place there, and budgetary arrangements are also being made. We have an increase in the amount of care, we also have a higher dispensation of the care fund. There is an additional EUR 50 million for nursing training, which is also shared with the countries, and the Communitynurses project, which is shown in the government programme, is also taught and implemented accordingly. Our government programme also includes some very large priorities in the care sector. – Mr Minister, unfortunately we are still very busy in the management of pandemics, but the chapter and the topic of care is one that calls for us and where we also have to come up with solutions because the area simply demands this. It is about reorganising and pooling the financial flows to redevelopment and redefinition of the care money, especially in support of: a caretaker and also a staff and training offensive. We have to take advantage of all the possibilities, because – I am myself on the board of a social assistance association – we already have empty beds in the nursing homes because simply and simply the staff is missing. This is, of course, about training, about recruitment, but of course also about creating the right framework conditions so that the profession becomes more attractive. There's a pay and a lot of other topics, but there needs to be a wider mix. However, I would also like to take the opportunity to really thank all those who care – whether in our stationary facilities or in the care at home, which is a very important part of our care system. I think we have done the preparatory work, Federal Minister, that we are coming to a major care reform. Now we should really get to implementation. Because probably after-saids will say that care in this budget is not yet paid: It is clear in the strategy objectives and in the explanations that as soon as the care concept is defined, this will also be covered in a budget. This clear statement is given. In this sense: Let's start with this big topic! I am convinced that we will also come to solutions there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e32100	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e32121	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! On the announcement of the care reform by colleagues Hammer: If 500 euros of care bonus are promised that have not yet been paid out, then you can calculate when you get the care reform that he promises you! Unfortunately, we will not experience that anymore. To the pension system: Mr Stöger has opened up to ensure that pensions are safe. The former Finance Minister Hannes Androsch said: The pensions are already safe, but the budget is not. That's why it's okay. We have to pay all that is promised sometime. In fact: If you had some foresight, you could already see in 1955 that all of this will not go out permanently. [[Keeping a panel up to date with a media report]] Now this is accelerating at an incredible pace. The social security pensions grants, that is to say, ASVG, BSVG and GSVG, will rise by 5.2 billion euros from the time of government accession to 2019 to 2026, from more than 9 billion to more than 16 billion, i.e. by about half – in five or six years by half. That's a dynamic that you can't do nothing. So you can do that You too! It is not responsible, however, because it eats away the money that we urgently needed in other areas of the budget. If there is a dispute of EUR 4.5 million for the protection of violence when it comes to mobilising more than EUR 1 million for development cooperation, when it comes to environmental measures when it comes to economic promotion, when it comes to innovation and research, the money is missing, but when it comes to pensions, it does not matter at all that the grant increases by half in five or six years. Would the Austrians go to retirement a month later – only one month! – that would make a difference of 191 million euros. Everyone in this House who is responsible for a budget chapter should consider what would make up 191 million euros. These are huge sums. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] For many years, government programmes have always stood inside: We want to increase the actual retirement age. – It's always inside, it just doesn't happen. The last increase that has happened has reached Rudi Hundstorfer by a sadistic trick: by introducing the rehabilitation money and now these people no longer count as pensioners, but otherwise the Austrians go to pension as early as 1974, only they get eight years older and they start working five years later – that is, five years less contribution and eight years longer in the back. That this can't go out, a blind man sees with the crutch stick. Fortunately, the Austrians are in good health, Austria has a good and powerful health system, and social democrats also prove that one can continue working in the middle age. ÖGB President Katzian has his 65. Birthday, to which I also congratulated him, he continues to work as ÖGB President and he will join again next year. Of course, you can do a good job – not in all jobs, but there are many professions in which you can do a good job even in the middle of 60. You're always pretending to be all the roofers. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Brandtätter points towards President Sobotka.]] [[Abg. Worm: (delights towards President Sobotka) Also the..., Mr President!]] [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the NEOS.]] [[Rejoicing of President Sobotka.]] And then, too, Mr Stöger has spread an untruth. One can repeat untruths in the hope that they will eventually hang, very often, for example, those that would have been out of place – I wonder between who – that one third will be shot to the pensions. It doesn't say anything, but it's meaty, you can often say that, and at some point it might stay hanging. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Or you can claim that the pensions of the workers and employees cover themselves in a way – and if you hide a few things, that's right, but now I want to show you these things. The insurance of workers and employees in pension insurance benefits from so-called migrant insured persons who are first of all workers and employees, at some point in their career, and then enter self-employed insurance – but they have previously paid contributions to the workers and employees. This accounts for about 2 billion euros each year, from which workers' insurance benefits, while these are missing on the part of the self-employed. Then, out of unemployment insurance, an amount of about EUR 1.5 billion is transferred each year to the pension insurance of workers and employees, because otherwise this would not be covered. And then we still have the subject with the officials. The boys are no longer officials, they are contract staff; the old are in official status. That's to say, I have the old and few boys in official insurance. The young public servants are insured at the pension insurance institution and pay contributions there, but very few people are still in contact with them – a further 1.5 billion euros. So if we already expect, then honestly! I know that with mathematics one does not have it on the social democratic side, and on the ÖVP side one is then rather Christian-socialist. The money doesn't play Rolex! You always write: We're making a pension reform, but it's never coming. Since Wolfgang Schüssel, you have not brought forward the subject a millimeter, and this is your failure and your wrongdoing in youth.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e32209	Mr Koza is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e32232	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is always very nice for me to talk to Mr Loacker. My dear sisters, I'm bringing you a soothing message: Our pension system is not in front of the collapse, our pension system can continue to be financed in the short, medium and long term. [[Call the NEOS:... financeable!]] If you take a look at the social chapter in the budget, you can also see quite clearly that there is relatively little reason for panic because pensions do not develop particularly exciting and surprising. Both the EU's Ageing Report and the long-term projection of the Ministry of Finance do not speak of exploding, exaggerating costs. Of course, the expenditure on pensions increases until 2040, no na! On the one hand, we have a demographic effect in Austria – fortunately, people are getting older, and more birth - years are coming to the retirement age – and we also have more and more public servants who are being transferred from the public pension system to the general pension system – this, of course, leads to a rise in pension expenditure. But if you look at the projections – they are all always insecure; you know that the future is always uncertain – you can say that most assume that from the year 2040 the expenditure will either stabilize or even fall slightly. I would already like to warn against a very massive one, namely that you reduce the debate on pensions to a purely cost factor, just reducing what they cost our society. - No, I can't! Pensions, ladies and gentlemen, are incomes, incomes of older people. Pensions, which are also contained in the budget analysis of the budget service, have an essential function as secured income in particular in crises, as they act as so-called automatic stabilisers, stabilise demand, safeguard against poverty and dispel economic downturns. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] In other words, pensions have long since had a pure cost function, no, they also bring taxes and taxes, stabilise demand, stabilise employment, and this has to be said and highlighted quite clearly and clearly. I would like to briefly mention a few points on the budget or on what is foreseen in the pension system next year. One thing is that when we make the decisions on Friday, from 1 January onwards. Years of the early starter bonus is introduced not only for the ASVG insured and the self-employed, but also for public servants, for railways, for postal workers, so that all those who have already started working in young years and paid pension insurance contributions have started to work before 20 years of age, with the arrival of a higher pension, because they have just started working much earlier. This means up to 840 euros in addition to pension,for about 60 percent of newly rising pensioners and about half between men and women. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] In addition, for the year 2022, we increased the compensation allowance, the most important instrument in the fight against poverty, by 3 percent – 3.5 percent in the year before. That means that this is an important continuous increase, because the fight against poverty must be just as much an objective as the fight for safe pensions. Last but not least, a restriction on my statement that pensions are financed: Yes, the public authorities and the state already have tasks to do, and one of the most essential tasks is to secure employment, create employment and combat unemployment – unemployment and not the unemployed – because only if we have a high level of employment, only if we have sufficient people in good employment can we really finance our social system, our pension systems sufficiently. [[Complementary of the Abg. Prammer]] That's our job. How important the social state is to all of us, ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing day after day in the Corona crisis, and this social state must also be preserved for future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e32288	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e32309	Mr President. Federal Minister! – He'll be right back. – Ladies and gentlemen and all who watch us! For three days now we are talking about billions and billions of euros, which should actually illustrate how a society should develop, how it should develop year after year. One issue that is very often avoided – perhaps deliberately – but which we need to talk about is the risk of poverty and poverty of children, of single women with their children, of women of old age, of elderly families, of multiple-child families. Ex Chancellor Kurz, who is now dealing with his phone, was one who has repeatedly separated this subject, has spoken highly esteemed colleagues, and rather negatively about this topic, namely by saying that people do not want to get up because they do not want to work. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] This is really very despicable, ladies and gentlemen. The issue of poverty and the risk of poverty has ended up in the middle of this society, and we need to talk about it. I know that Federal Minister Mückstein is trying – he is also trying more than the Turks – to get hold of the pandemic fight, and he is also trying to ensure that society is well protected. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] This is less interesting to the ÖVP because it concerns other interests such as tourism. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Totter.]] But that you also endanger the population, you don't have that on the radar – or deliberately not. It is 350 000 children, Mr. Ex-Kanzler, who are at risk of poverty – 350 000 children who have more stress than others who are more sicker than others and who have less prospects for the future. I'm just reminding you: Today in the “Morgenjournal” was a contribution over 32 studies conducted worldwide on how children who are disadvantaged in education are taking their future opportunities. Worldwide, worldwide, it has been investigated and shown that this pandemic has disadvantaged children. Imagine children who are vulnerable to poverty: People who do not have enough to live, children who wear too small shoes that have no winter clothing or too little winter clothing, people who cannot heat enough in their apartments, so that children feel a pleasant and warm feeling. These children have far less chances than those children and grandchildren who may have representatives in this House in their family. I think we need to talk about this too, and that is exactly what we need to talk about. If we talk about more than EUR 24 million for the prevention of delogging – that is what the Minister mentioned in the preliminary talks three times – then it is good, but it does not form All that we do against poverty threat. Finally, you wrote yourself black on white in the government program: We want to halve poverty in this legislative period. - There's no talk about that. That is why we need to talk more often and more intensively about this issue in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e32385	Members of Parliament have been told that Scheucher-Pichler is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e32406	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, But above all also: Dear listeners at home! Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, when we were women's speakers together – that was in the years 2002 until, I don't know, 2006 – there was not even close to the women's budget which is now in place, since there were not even nearly so many measures in the direction of poverty reduction – and this is related to that, you have always taken the word women into your mouth and mentioned it. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: We are talking about combating poverty!]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I don't know why you're so frustrated. I don't understand. Sebastian Kurz was the one – and he said this yesterday, too, that this is very important to him – who was very much concerned with the relief of people with low incomes. The best message in this context is that the economy is starting. The best message is that we have more people in employment than before the pandemic, because, ladies and gentlemen, if we increase the family bonus – a very clear statement from us – if we relieve low incomes through the tax reform and also relieve and support women with it, then this is the best purchasing power, and that is social, ladies and gentlemen: Bringing people into work and employment is social – and not any bonus. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address a few aspects that are always too short because so many committed people stand behind them. I think it's already mentioned the protection of violence – very important! – but there is also the prevention of extremism, for which 3 million euros are budgeted and where there are very valuable, also therapeutic projects – I am with one myself – the help of crime victims: 3 million euros, the prevention and housing security: 8 million euros, including a large number of women, Mrs Collaborative, the expansion of hospice and palliative work. The safeguarding of the care money, which God is also valorized, has already been mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, I also say quite openly, because Mr Loacker repeatedly puts pensions at the heart of his remarks: Thank God the pensions are secured – yes, they are secured! – but that we are so good in Austria, on the one hand, is the result of a good financial policy, on the other hand, but also the merit of those people, our parents and grandparents who did not discuss for long in the post-war period: why and where and how?, but rather the sleeves, built up this country and brought us to prosperity, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why it is quite natural for us – which Sebastian Kurz has repeatedly stressed, and this is our approach – that we look at the seniors. The increase in the compensatory allowance, which some are constantly criticizing, is for me poverty reduction, ladies and gentlemen. It is more than justifiable and we are greatly concerned that the low pensions are raised. We're on it! This is our approach that we are supporting those people who have worked for a lifetime. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A lot has already been said about care. As far as the Training Fund is concerned, I would also like more had happened, but, Minister of Education, we all know: The federal government alone cannot succeed, we need a joint effort, including the countries and the municipalities. I believe that an important first step is above all that Federal Minister Kocher should take practical measures to address the shortage of skilled workers. But I also need a further development of the care culture. It's not always about money, it's also about more prevention. The introduction of Community policies, which are budgeted at EUR 18.3 million, is an important first step towards advice and care before the introduction of care needs. That's what we've got to do. It's social. Prevention means not to make care need arise at all or to delay them, to promote mobility. The people's desire is to live in their social fabric for as long as possible at home in their familiar environment. This has to be implemented by politics, which is the desire of the people. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to find new approaches here: new forms of living, more advanced services – from menu service to emergency calls – we need to upgrade the care at home. We need more support for caregivers, they still do 80 percent of the work in the care sector. The support of the caring family is also very important to us, and we also need better funding and, in my opinion, the Federal Minister, we also need a mandatory quality seal for 24-hour care. Finally, great appreciation and respect for the care staff, ladies and gentlemen, all of them in the health field, who are currently caring for people and also saving lives under the most difficult conditions! The situation is serious, and I still believe in the people in our country. Consider each other, we keep together, we work together and not against each other! To conclude: Vaccination is the most important and the only way to overcome this pandemic. That's fact. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, please: Let yourself be vaccinated, protect yourself and others too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e32474	Member of the Worm has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e32495	Mr President. Minister! Good morning to all the spectators and the High House! I would like to dedicate myself to the consumer protection budget today. Minister Mückstein is also responsible for consumer protection, at least formally. De facto, I think, we all know that little happens, even in the field of social matters little to nothing. Of course, there have been Corona for two years now and that is why he has been used as Minister of Health, but this is of course not an advantage for consumer protection. [[Abg. Belakovich: But he doesn't bring anything together either!]] So that you have about one idea or one idea: We are talking about an annual budget in Austria of 6.5 million – millions! - Euro. So EUR 6.5 million is the Austrian annual budget for consumer protection. I would say – I think everyone can do that – that's nothing, and that's why the result in consumer protection is really nothing. Of these 6,5 million euros, 5 million euros are a lump sum contribution to the VKI. Unfortunately, there has been no lasting solution for the VKI, despite the pressure of God on our part – and also on social democracy, I must say. We still have a solution, but now there is an amount of EUR 5 million in the area or is budgeted. That is summa summarum, consumer protection will be financially starved, also in the 2022 budget. Just a little note so you can have an idea: We had 25 applications in the last Consumer Protection Committee – and 23 were postponed, pushed. That means the government has nothing to do with it. I would like to raise another issue at least: The Association Complaints Directive, which has been adopted by the European Union, is currently being implemented by us, or its implementation is being prepared. This is about what is referred to as the usual term collective complaint – VW exhaust gas, diesel scandal, if You remember. The intention would be for large companies to be able to take on a duty as a small consumer and join a collective complaint without risking all their private property – a very meaningful story. You can imagine that both at European and, of course, at Austrian level, the large corporations do not necessarily approve of this. I am already excited whether we really get a real advantage for consumers, but at least we will not give up fighting for it. In this context, I would like to make a brief point, which we should perhaps consider in this sense, namely a collective complaint against pharmaceutical companies concerning vaccines. This would be a model at European level or also in Austria, which should at least be remembered, because, I believe, this has become clear: The vaccines have not kept what they promised, neither in terms of overall effectiveness – we know the current breakthroughs, more than half of the new cases are double-vaccinations – nor in terms of the duration of protection promised by the pharmaceutical companies, because it is not nearly reached. That means that this is actually a mogel pack in the classical sense. That reminds me a little of the story with the VW exhaust scandal. You should consider whether you have any opportunity to take these pharmaceutical companies, which – this is not a secret – have made billions of profits with the vaccines to do so, just like any other company. It is about the product having to keep what one promises, de facto, and in this case between claim and reality is a major difference. I am not yet talking about the second side of the medal, namely the damage to the vaccinations. This is another chapter. I would begin to sue the effect that was promised – that cost everything a lot of money – because it did not happen in reality, in practice. That is why I am glad when this Association Complaints Directive comes in in consumer protection, and I am already excited when the first collective complaints relating to pharmaceutical companies and the vaccine are intruding. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e32532	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e32553	Mr President! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Consumer protection concerns all of us. The budget is modest, it is true – 6,5 million euros – but it will do a lot. At this point I would like to express my thanks to the consumer protection institutions: the Consumer Information Association, the Chamber of Workers, who works for workers, the Association for Consumer Business, the Internet Ombudsman and – not to mention – the Ministry of Social Affairs, which helps to decide cases in the sense of enforcement. It is important that we also carry out model procedures in the field of consumer protection, so that there is legal progress. We sitting here are all consumers. Some of us are also entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs. It must be important to all of us that those who behave properly are protected – and that requires effective consumer protection. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The entrepreneurs also have something of it when the black sheep are brought in front of the curtain and those who behave properly are rewarded. That is why we need to focus on the need to show that good consumer protection is taking place. I would like to give an example: Last year there was the VKI's travel hotline, for people who wanted to fly and then couldn't fly. Thanks to two collective complaints, 17 000 persons for flights that did not take place have recovered their money. For this, a great thank you to the VKI and its employees. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We must not forget one thing: If we take these procedures, then this will also lead to market cleaning. It's not easy to make good consumer protection. The world is becoming ever more complex. Let's look at the Internet subscription: You go to the Internet, you want to complete any subscription, think that's a good thing, and never get a performance. Very important is the information and the information. You also have to say: The consumer protection institutions do not complain immediately, but are first informed, advised, there is a fact-finding check. This is also true of the food: A very important story is, for example, that the VKI looks at food, products and publishes an analysis in the "consumer", where consumers can then see which products they are to buy. Again: We're all consumers. We eat and want to know what's inside the food. We buy shoes, we buy clothes, we want to know where this comes from. We want to travel, and we want to travel on a sustainable basis. In all these areas, consumer protection organisations are helping us to do this well. Now a few points to the detailed budget: The VKI receives 5 million euros. With these 5 million euros, 67 000 consultations are carried out per year, 70 percent of which are out of court. If judicial decisions occur, they are 90 percent a success. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think all those who work for consumer protection deserve applause. It is also appropriate to welcome the fact that we are looking at European consumer protection. In the sense of the evaluation, there will be a look over the edge of the plate, because it is important that we not only think Austria but also Europe. The European Federation Complaints Directive has already been addressed. It will make it possible for us to work together better at European level. I would just like to give an example: Years ago, there was the PIP scandal with the breast implants, and it was very laborious for the consumer information association to enforce damages in France, but 70 women could be helped. If we have effective consumer protection, we can help a lot more people. In other words, there is a need for well-functioning associational action, well-functioning European legal protection, in all our interests, in Consumers' interests.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e32631	Mrs Larive is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e32653	Mr President. High house! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! [[The salutation also in sign language:]] Love deaf people! In addition to many other areas of the subject, the issue of social exclusion is addressed in the 21st sub-division. It is all the more surprising that for the NAP disability 2022 to 2030, which is still in operation, no special budget is estimated. Considering that there was already an NAP 2012 to 2020, one could assume that one already knows from experience that it takes a lot of money for it. In the search for information about the NAP, I received a letter from the former Minister of Health, which mentions the inclusion of disabled people. As long as we also talk about “people with special needs” and “measures for the disabled” in the budget, we have not yet understood much. We all have special needs. People with disabilities need a barrier-free, including society that brings them into the middle of society and lives inclusion. I would like to point out once again today that these wordings are by no means from my spring, but must be found in the budget and urgently revised. In the next budget, I expect a consistently appropriate wording. But in order to speak again to the NAP disability: In reply to the written question, Mr Minister, you have explained to me that no special budget is provided for in the Social Ministry because each department has to finance its own measures under the budget and therefore it is expected that the departments for the measures provided for in the NAP will have taken appropriate budgetary arrangements. The eight chapters to be found in the new NAP are disability policy, discrimination, accessibility, education, employment, self-determined life, health and rehabilitation, awareness-raising and information. If I have understood correctly, the responsibility for disability policy and self-determination lies clearly in the Ministry of Social Affairs. So I would also raise awareness and information in your ministry. I therefore ask you: Where's this budget? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In a further response to the question, you will write that the high rate of unification in conciliation procedures under the law on the equalisation of the disabled, which concerns barriers, supports the participation of people with disabilities in everyday life and in the profession. The agreement rate of the total number of agreements between 2006 and 2021 which affected barriers was around 60 percent. Are you aware that these agreements are often of a financial nature, but the affected barriers are not eliminated? I am still of the opinion that an inclusive society is the foundation for a successful life and that our children benefit greatly from being confronted with diversity in our society from a small age. That's how we make them careful and worldly people living in inclusion. It takes the courage to do so. to change the education system and to invest in the future of our society. However, these investments need to be made in all departments. I see it as a great gap that there is no special budget for people with disabilities, especially in the social ministry, especially as regards wages instead of pocket money. We also need urgent action because we work in the workshops for people who have earned social security. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It once again shows that inclusion has not yet arrived in the government. I say it again clearly and clearly: Inclusion has nothing to do with charity, inclusion is a human right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e32726	Mrs Grebien is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e32747	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear Colleagues! Dear guests here at the gallery and also at home! Whether with or without disability: Working means more than having an employment. We have just heard from the colleague of the ÖVP, that is also a social measure. A job provides a day structure. He gives you the opportunity to make his contribution, promotes your own self-esteem. So Job means sharing in society in our society. However, finding a suitable job is often a challenge, because people with disabilities face reservations in the labour market. Barriers in the minds and uncertainties regarding the employment of people with disabilities are evident in questions or statements by entrepreneurs: Do I even have the right equipment at work? Do I have to expect more breaks when I put in people with disabilities? Can I actually cancel people with disabilities? What promotion offers are there? And who can I contact who helps me when I'm overemphasized? – These barriers in the minds, but also the lack of information on employment and rights result in only about 22 percent of companies with more than 25 employees fulfilling the statutory obligation. That means in the reverse: 78 percent of entrepreneurs pay a compensation tax instead. Because we know that people with disabilities have a hard time compared to people with no disabilities on the labour market or have less often been able to resume their work than people without disabilities, Social Minister Mückstein has naturally taken this into account for the 2022 budget. I just want to say: In the long term, there is also a strategy that has also been adopted by Federal Minister Mückstein, namely that around two thirds of the people affected will find employment in the labour market by 2030. But now to the 2022 budget: Among other things, the operating service and key account management are expanded. Why? What is Key Account Management? What is the operating service? What's that about? – The main objective of this key account management and operational service is the long-term and sustainable development of partnerships as well as the maintenance of existing contacts. That means, yeah, it's networking, lobbying. They actually have a one-stop shop in all nine federal states in 2020, a point of contact for companies on all issues, but also problematic situations in working life. The offer has been accepted so well that I have to tell you honestly, that surprised me myself. We are in a pandemic, we have also had a labour market crisis, many things have been picked up, and it appears to the companies that: they want to employ people with disabilities and accept the offer. That means that it's going to be extended, and that's a very, very great step. Of course, that's not all. The Social Ministry, as you have said correctly, has extremely many areas, people with disabilities are a huge, heterogeneous group. For example, women with disabilities are also taken into account in the promotion of inclusion plus, i.e. in the case of individual promotions, and the corresponding budget is increased. Youths with disabilities are also a huge topic – young people as a whole in Austria, but there are young people with disabilities. There is a need to increase youth coaching in particular, and offers of the training fit programme will be increased. I could now list a lot of small posts which are being increased and which were taken into account in the 2022 budget to give people with disabilities a good entry into the labour market and support throughout their entire life span. I would like to say something important about key account management, because you might imagine it too abstractly: In turn, they are totally strong with the AMS, connected with the Neba measures. This is becoming increasingly advanced – as has been said, piloted in 2020 – and I am looking forward to this success and therefore thanking the Minister – and you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e32803	The Federal Minister Mückstein has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e32824	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! I would like to present briefly to you today a few points from my 2022 section budget. I am pleased that improvements will be possible in many areas in the coming year. In the coming minutes, I will explain to you a number of important projects. In advance, I would like to thank you once again for the constructive discussions in the Committee of the Regions last week. Let me start with the care: There will be decisive steps. Next year, there will be an additional 50 million euros to make the care profession more attractive. For example, traineeships are to be paid during training. Furthermore, the forward-looking project Communitynursing starts. This will make 150 Communitynurses active in Austria for the first time next year. This is a special concern for me to coordinate a new area to support family members, but also people at home. This is supported by the EU. In addition, we also drive the expansion of hospice and palliative care with the countries and social security. But we also take important measures in the social field. We invest in combating the social consequences of the pandemic. First of all, the topic of the prevention of immigration and housing security: This will be implemented throughout Austria in the future, and in this way, thousands of tenants who are threatened by a delogging will receive a new residential perspective. In this way, the federal government complements very different structures regionally designed to prevent homelessness. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In addition, we are implementing measures for the psychosocial health of children and young people. By the end of 2022, the Federal Government will also invest 13 million euros in a low-level advisory and treatment programme to address the crisis-related effects of Covid-19. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My department also supports the professional participation of people with disabilities. For example, work assistance is expanded due to the very good demand as well as advisory projects and individual promotions. In 2022, a total increase of around 10 percent to 315 million euros is planned. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Another focus of my department is the prevention of man-specific violence. For example, we develop man's consultations and support the violence-preventive boys' and boys' workshops. I would also like to say something about pensions. Also next year, low pensions will be increased above inflation. There's an increase of 3 percent. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In this way, the Federal Government will continue the course of strengthening and reducing small incomes in the coming year. But important tasks also await us in the field of consumer policy. For the year 2022, the long-term targeted financing of the Consumer Information Association with EUR 5 million is of particular importance. In addition, we pay particular attention to digitalisation, which is particularly reflected in the financing of the Austrian Institute for Applied Telecommunications. Consumer education is also central to the budget, especially financial education. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e32912	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e32941	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I don't know if you remember, but I just remembered a little bit because we're discussing the care now: The time before Christmas or around the turn of the year was always a time when Sebastian Kurzstets had turned a little bit into himself, a little thoughtful, whether his policy in the form is the right one, whether he does not make too much for his big donors and the corporations, and whether he does not forget a little too much on the broad mass of the population. He always liked to appear in the dark before Christmas and picked up the donation phone in front of the camera. He once decided to hold a press conference together with Beate Hartinger-Klein in front of a wonderful backdrop with red and white-red flags shortly before Christmas, where he said that there must be something going on in the field of care. So that the whole thing sounds good, because it would not have been credible if one had called the whole working group, it was said that this was the Master Plan care. That was Christmas 2018 when Sebastian Kurz of 2019 proclaimed the year of care and said he will solve all of this in 2019. In 2020, in the last spring, he announced his New Year's plan. He has staged himself again in a nursing home – he has taken all with him, except Mrs. Hartinger-Klein, but Mr. Anschober and Mr. Kogler have been there – and so that the pictures fit, the older people were placed in the chair circle to give Mr. Kurz a wonderful backdrop before which he was able to demonstrate how well he could talk to people. There are videos on the Internet, but that it is better if he lets the personal conversations be, we all know only too well. The bad thing is, he knew at that time to talk about working groups, to claim, to promise, to make a care reform, that is not good for him, so he did not talk about the Master Plan care, but about a task force together with Rudi Anschober. What happened in 2020? - Nothing. There have been many, many promises, announcements for care – and unfortunately nothing has happened! Now we have Minister Mückstein, who has announced again, but unfortunately, for his budget for the coming year, nothing has been achieved again. He has done something in the field of community education, which is important, but he has done nothing at all. He has promised a lot, but he has not been able to put up with the ÖVP again. The great concern I now have: that in spring 2022 there will be the next chair circle in a nursing home – mosquito, Kogler, Hartinger-Klein probably not, probably not in short, no idea who will be with it – and that the year 2022 will be declared the year of care. I'm telling you quite honestly: If you don't help in this situation, you don't have to help! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Whoever doesn't help now doesn't have to help. Hundreds of thousands of people in Austria are affected, and the families who need care have deserved it, in the middle of this health crisis, that politics will finally follow the words! We are experiencing today that nothing goes on in this area. I can give you my letters. I read them to you, Minister of Health. There are people in nursing homes who are in the end who can no longer, and the only thing that is made today is promises, promises, promises – and nothing happens! If, in the middle of this health crisis, after all the great promises, after all the applause for the nursing workers and the promise to support them, nothing goes on today, then I do not know what the word of this green-black federal government should still be worth. That's why: Strictly, today supports our proposal for a care offensive in Austria! We've all heard the words from each other for years, we're finally doing something! We have it together to finally become active.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e32998	Mrs Ragger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e33020	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the house! Estimated Minister! I would now like to join me seamlessly on the subject of care, which has already been raised by Mr Kucher, because it is a real need for me – and it would also be important for you not to go out now, but to stay here, Minister, to learn something about how to develop care. [[Federal Minister Mückstein is about to leave the hall]] We have shown in Carinthia over a period of several years how to change care and develop it further. We have found a care system – Mr Kucher says you are all guilty, the ÖVP, the Greens, you all have done nothing, Mrs Hartinger-Klein has not contributed to it – in most federal states for 40 years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kucher]] the SPÖ is persecuted. It is usually the case that the SPÖ manages the health system and has paralysed it for years – due to your development – and today we have the task of implementing it together in a power act, in three points, and I can give you an example for each and every one. The first is financing. Although we have federalism with nine federal states and a federal government in Austria today, we are unable to establish a single funding agency for a nursing home. Let me give you an example: Tirol has 74 different care streams, so that at the end of the day the money arrives at a nursing bed. Carinthia has 54 care streams. That means I'm asking you: How long do you have to send money around the circle so that relatives can finally be cared for? - That's the first point. We have done nothing to create the institutions in front of us. Although we have mobile services today and we also have nursing beds and nursing homes, what have you done to strengthen this extramural area? - Nothing! On the contrary, the financial support has been abolished and people have been told that they have to go to nursing homes instead of providing them on-site and at home. Look at Holland! Holland began 15 years ago to create the neighboring assistance, the neighboring care model, and today 50 percent of all members of professional care workers are provided at home. 24 hours of seven days a week two professional qualified nurses who care exclusively for the family – this is not a new invention in Austria. You don't always have to reinvent the wheel, but you have to look only at what social systems are doing in other countries. This means that these approaches should also be taken into account in the new care model. The third point, and that's the most essential thing, is: Stop sticking to the nursing class! You know today that you're not going to comply with the training. You can train as much as you want, but at the end of the day, 2030, we will be missing between 75 000 and 100 000 nurses. Where do you want them to come from? Where are they to be provided? Who else can provide it? Let me give you an example: Last week, the care department of a Styrian company came to me. He's been accused of infringing supervision to his graduate nurses. There is a 65 per cent burden in seven nursing homes – not for those who are cared for there, but 65 per cent burden on the qualified sisters and nurses who work there. That is, you don't have a care emergency, you're dealing with a care bankruptcy because people don't want to work in nursing homes anymore because they're afraid of it; not only because of Corona, but also because they're suffering from constantly working under the pressure, the enormous time and the poor pay in nursing homes. It is now time and the hour to finally implement this model. Let's stop talking, it's really fun and really unresponsible to the caregivers and the caregivers that we don't act there! [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Fischer.]] Therefore, implement a care model! We have tabled a motion for a resolution on the Carinthian care model, which you may agree with: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[10:20]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e33231	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Member Werner has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e33255	Mr President. Dear Seers! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! I can speak to you for the first time today and allow me to introduce myself briefly: As many of you know, I can follow Felix Eypeltauer. I come from Upper Austria, where I grew up in a small community. Unfortunately, Mr Wöginger is not here, because I have to disappoint him: Not all children go to Vienna and then come back as greens, some become pinks. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Call the ÖVP: It's not better!]] The Catholic worker girl from the country, quoted by Ralf Dahrendorf and in the education sciences from the 1960s – you see it in front of you. Neither my mother nor my father studied, they both worked and raised four children. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] However, my parents told their children that education is the key to a successful life. In spite of this, they managed to train all their children into academics. This educational affinity and also the awareness that we could be much better here in Austria allowed me to dock at NEOS in 2017. Since 2018, I have also been allowed to teach special challenges at a school as a cross-country beginner. What does all this have to do with consumer protection, my subject that I will then talk about? – On the one hand, I was allowed to teach the subject of nutrition and household, a subject that really offers a lot of space for related topics. My second class is German. In my opinion, consumer protection starts there. He starts by asking himself that every fifth youth who has gone to school in Austria for nine years cannot read meaningfully – and that in one of the richest countries in the world. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] With regard to the budget, therefore, consumer protection is an issue that we must not leave to the table. The colleague said it earlier: 5 million euros for the VKI. The VKI does very, very valuable work. While funding is guaranteed in the short term in this law for another year, it would be important to ensure the long-term financing of the CCI and finally address structural reform, as you, dear ÖVP and dear Greens, promised it in your government programme. The long-term security of the VKI is a project which, I believe, all the parties represented in Parliament stand behind. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am looking forward to starting, accompanying and moving forward this reform process with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e33307	That was the first speech, a warm congratulation. Mrs Nussbaum is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e33331	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! Last Wednesday, there was a big demonstration throughout Austria, with health and care personnel in line with the motto: It is already five after twelve!, which has drawn attention to the shortcomings in working conditions in the health and care sectors. The burden in the health and care sector is extremely high and many nurses are facing the collapse. We are now in the biggest health crisis for just under two years, and I think that it should have become clear to everyone until now what people do in the hospitals, but above all in the care and care homes. We're getting older and older, we know. Care reforms – which my colleague Kucher has already formulated – have been announced again and again – task force and so on – but nothing happens. Mr Federal Minister, it is impossible to get through this situation by no means. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You could almost say it's already a danger in delay, it has to be done now. All the more perplexing it makes me that there is absolutely nothing in the budget to do with how to implement the care reform budgetaryly. Why is there no financial means? What else does everything have to happen so that the start-up is finally dropped and acted? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We know that in the future we need a lot, a lot more caregivers, and that is not just about training new ones; we know that in the meantime extremely many – and that is a huge percentage – have turned their backs on the care and care training because they say: I can't stand that, I can't always jump in for colleagues, do overtime and overtime! In the meantime, 12-hour days are the rule anyway. So something has to happen very quickly so that we can bring these people back to care. We as SPÖ say – I have said this several times and I am not tired of demanding that – we need a uniform care system across Austria. Mr Scheucher-Pichler referred to: We needed – that would be important – a care fund, in which all the funds, both the countries and the federal government, flow together. We need to make the care professions more attractive. Of course, it is also a training offensive that trainees, as well as police students, are rewarded. We need more staff and we need more attractive working time models: 4-day week, 35-hour week, more holiday, speak sixth week for everyone – all of these are opportunities to reduce the load. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[10:27]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e33526	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e33550	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! Ladies and gentlemen! When we talk about successful consumer protection in Austria, we do not come around the name of an institution: The VKI, the Association for Consumer Information, is the address in Austria for successful consumer protection. I've read through the 2020 activity report, it's impressive again: 77 sample processes, 171 association proceedings, 36 collective complaints and a success rate of 90 percent, which is worth all honours. Furthermore, 950 out-of-court legal assistance is still listed, with a success rate of 70 percent. The Coronareishotline, which was specially set up, has carried out over 50,000 consultations – one has to imagine – and reduced travel costs for 17 000 airlines. In addition, there are tests, analyses and various research. It is no wonder, then, that the VKI can challenge the lion's share of its budget from the proceeds from its own printing works and from subscriptions, because these publications of the VKI are worth every cent. The rest of the VKI budget, we all know, brings the workers' chamber and the competent ministry – your ministry, Dr. Mückstein – on, and our criticism is the same as every year: The VKI has earned a fixed financing, it needs a VKI law. Minister Anschober has promised that we wanted to do it ourselves in the government, but it just didn't go out anymore – now you're on the train, Dr. Mückstein. Finally, I would like to return briefly to work in the Consumer Protection Committee. At the last committee meeting, Mr. Dr. Mückstein, you have expressed your surprise at the fact that you have to strike around with requests from 2019. And why do you have to? That is why you have to do so because your group together with the ÖVP is a real delaying front. And I'm wondering, Is that government? – That’s not even reacting, we’re still far away from activities. In this matter, it is actually a negation of consumer interests. You don't let the opposition rise, because you let the consumers wake up. You should be aware of this, ladies and gentlemen. At the last Committee meeting, 24 requests were submitted or were on the agenda. All came exclusively from the opposition and almost all applications were postponed once again. A request from my colleague, Peter Wurm, concerning the operation of village shops for the protection of local services is not by chance similar to a petition filed by an ÖVP member. And what has the ÖVP done with a concern that is supposed to be its concern as well? - She postponed it. That's the tip of currency. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] Now you're going to miss yourself. Have you thought about it before? [[Call the FPÖ: Is incredible!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] In short: These procrastinate games you're holding here are simply absurd. Mr. Dr. Mückstein, as long as these retiring care continues, as long as you will have to beat around with old requests.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e33615	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e33636	Mr President. Federal Minister! We've heard a lot about pensions today. Mr Loacker: You know, I appreciate you, Gerald, but what you said today really doesn't understand anyone. Mr Stöger has already said: ‘45 years are enough’. – 45 years of age are enough for those people who work in road construction in the worst heat of tar works that are under construction, masons, tow 25-, 30-, 50-kilo bags that work on a blast furnace, work in a forging, work in a foundry. [[Abg. Loacker: (nicking) They get the bridge money with 58 anyway!]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, there are 45 years really enough to retire. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think, dear Gerald, and I have to tell you this: This can only be said by one who knows how these jobs are and who has already worked in this job. I know how difficult it is for these people, and with every year they get older, it becomes increasingly difficult to stay in this job. Believe me, they're happy when they're 60 years old, that they can be told: Friend, you can go to bed! – And then what happens in our state? – He gets the most massive discounts, discounts for having paid 45 years of contributions, 45 years for the Republic, for the economy and for everything. There he is punished in this country. We don't think that's fair, and it's done away with. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Dear Gerald, if you say the migration insurance contributions bring 2 billion euros a year, I have to say: Come with the right numbers, too! In 2018, there was the last Wanderversicherung report. There's quite clearly in there, that was 1 billion euros. That means you've doubled to 2 billion euros, and in the last three years, this can't be an extra billion. We have already discussed this in the debate on the chapter in the budget. If you say there's 190 million euros more work for a month longer: That's right, but if everyone goes out of work to pension. But we have many who do not go out of work to the pension, they are sick before, they are previously unemployed, so they do not get all of this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] I'd ask you to work with numbers that really vote! But we have another problem, ladies and gentlemen. The Wifo expects inflation of 4.5 percent for January 2022. The weekly purchase is 6.8% more expensive than in the previous year. The fuel becomes 36 percent more expensive, at some gas stations even up to 100 percent more expensive. Monthly rents rise by around 3 percent anyway. Those who still want to heat up and turn the light on have 16 percent more costs than in the previous year. That is to say, there is an enormous wave of inflation on the Austrians, and I see no measures here in the 2022 budget, I find nothing to do this. Therefore, low-income households need to be strengthened immediately. On the one hand, there is a need for a better pension adjustment than that provided for, and on the other hand, price subsidies, especially for those involved in small and medium-sized pensions and incomes, so that no one has to freeze in winter, because it cannot be, Minister, that a person in Austria has to decide: Do I have to freeze or have something to eat? So that can't be it. You have to work against it as a government. It is only a question of justice if we strengthen the purchasing power and strengthen the economy and provide subsidies to these people. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is necessary to accede to this motion for a resolution. I said it before: It can't be that a person in Austria has to decide: Do I have to freeze or have something to eat? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[10:36]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e33767	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Gödl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e33791	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home! As the chairman of a social assistance association, it is always around November my task to design the social budget for the district, in my case for the district of Graz-Environment, in order to be able to finance the social expenditure that is being incurred in a district. Graz-Umgebung is only one of 94 districts, but I'm telling you – I've been a social assistance firm for a few years now – that: We have a sharp increase in expenditure year after year. In the coming year, our budget will amount to about EUR 128 million – EUR 128 million in Graz alone in the field of care, disability assistance, youth welfare, minimum security, new and recently introduced social assistance, for school social work. These facts alone, these figures prove that Austria is an extremely pronounced and widely established social state. We are, in any case, among those countries all over the world who have the highest social rate. And this also shows a look at the budget when we consider that next year we are about 32 percent of gross national product – 32 percent of gross national product! – provide for social expenditure. So every third euro that is earned in Austria, paid by taxpayers, is spent on social tasks. And our task here as a legislator is, of course, to keep this system of social security safe and to make it more effective where it may not be. But it's also very important: We also need to keep this social state financially viable. And to finance, I believe, one of my predecessors, Mr Koza of the Greens, has raised it correctly from my point of view, one of the most important measures is an offensive labour market policy so that as many as possible can generate income from which they and the family can live, and of course also pay taxes on it so that we can finance this social state, i.e. every third euro, even in the future. We will not discuss the issue of labour market in detail until tomorrow, but we are already saying: What we have done this year and the next year, namely the Corona Job Plan and the Action Springboard to integrate long-term unemployed into the labour market, are very important social policy measures to keep our system running at all. I believe that if we look at a few social policy milestones in the budget, we can be very satisfied, for example, with the fact that – the topic of pensions has been addressed several times – we now increase as a social policy measure the low pensions, pensions up to 1 000 euros, from 1.1.2022 onwards far above the inflation rate, namely by 3 percent. This is an important social policy measure. At the same time, the compensatory allowance rate is increasing, and this, of course, has a positive effect on all social assistance and minimum insurance beneficiaries. As far as energy costs are concerned, too, I think, we are on a good path to finding a solution and to be able to offset rising energy costs, especially at lower incomes. The fact that we have decided in the framework of the tax reform that working people should pay less on public taxes, including very concrete income-weak households, that health insurance contributions will be reduced by 1.7 percent from July 2022, is also an important social policy measure to strengthen low-income households. The social state is always facing challenges, will always face major challenges. It is true that one of the very big challenges is the care. I would ask you to take an exact look at this. It is not enough, Mr Kucher from Klagenfurt, if you stand here with double-balled fist and, yes, give loud words of yourself. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Ribo.]] We must get from the theory into practice, and the practice in care, which happens not only here on the government bank, the practice in care happens on site. For example, what do I do as a social assistance association in Graz-Umgegebung? – We will open new day centers in some other communities next year, because we need the day centers for seniors to strengthen care at home. These are concrete measures that we must put in place. There will not be the big bang in the care reform that solves everything, but we must turn step by step at many wheels, in the communities, especially in the countries, because they have great competences in the care, and also in the federal government. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] One thing is also said: you forget it so easily: The care allowance we have in Austria is unique worldwide, also unique in terms of height. In the highest level, the care level 7, you get over 1,700 euros. Compare alone with Germany, where the level of care is 5, which is the highest level of care, a little over 1 000 euros to the people concerned! We are very well positioned in many areas. This does not mean, however, that we do not have to develop offensively in many areas – and the care is such a point. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, but: Fewer speeches, more do in the communities, in the countries and, of course, here with us in Parliament! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e33860	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e33882	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! As a consumer protection speaker, I can speak to my group on the consumer protection budget. Well, the 6.5 million euros are unchanged as last year. In fact, I look with envy at other European countries such as Sweden and Germany, where the appreciation for consumer protection is much higher. Mr Federal Minister, I am generally missing the appreciation for consumer protection in the permanent financing of the VKI. I know you're trying to promise, but you can't keep it. I think we are currently in a situation where we have been evaluated for two years. You say KPMG is checking again right now, but I'm thinking: For two years no planning security, uncertainty for VKI employees, uncertainty for VKI and uncertainty for consumers are two years too much. I think that you may not respond and act because the target value is lowered from 70 to 60 percent in the current budget. Now you have to listen carefully: The reason is that it is not reasonable for consumer policy enforcement to take place against the economy in this form during the Covid Pandemic. I think it's not just the evaluation that's delayed, it's because the ÖVP is making a wall and you can't go against this wall. This is the one point that is important to me. We as SPÖ will continue to want to implement this permanent financing of the VKI. This is a demand that will come from us even in the next time, we will not tire out. Mr. Federal Minister, the alarm bells are ringing! I call you numbers. One sixth of the Austrian households have a minus in the bank account, three million people have a credit. We have already mentioned the pressures. 28 percent of Austrians have no savings or only 500 euros in savings. Do you know what to do? – These people are aired to breathe, and that is why we continue to call for this debt protection shield, which I have already presented several times in the Consumer Protection Committee and also in the public. It can't be that Austrians have up to 18.5 percent interest on bank transfers. These interest rates are an outrage. The banks were saved in 2008 and today consumers have no chance of being saved in the same way as the pandemic as a financial accelerator. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We need a special interest rate of 5 per cent on bank transfers, and we absolutely need a regulation that prohibits collection agencies from demanding similar prices when it comes to late interest rates, exorbitant costs and charges, because they are currently allowed to exploit the maximum values. This means that in case of a claim of 35 euros, they can demand the full maximum rate. Mr Federal Minister, you said there was a change to the collection fee regulation. I would ask you to implement the fastest, this is in the interests of Austrian consumers and consumers. Finally, I would like to say: All claims relating to the debt shield have been postponed. I was told that was an appreciation. Mr Federal Minister, you have achieved at least one, namely that three of my requests have been incorporated into the budget. I have heard the debt atlas comes and is donated at 130 000 euros. I have heard that basic financial education will be taken over and spent at EUR 120 000, and I have heard that you also want to set up an ombudsman's office. I feel at least, even with my group, that our work is good. I would like to thank you for the implementation of the budget and I hope that the government groups in the Consumers' Committee will then give their support and agree to these ideas which you will implement. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e33946	Mr Angerer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e33967	Mr President. Minister! Yes, the comrades of social democracy have made a request. I can only say: It says it's SPÖ, but it's cut off by Jörg Haider and the Freeman. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Cost compensation and heating aid – I am amazed. I am amazed at what the Social Democrats are bringing in here, which is exactly the request you rejected last week in the Carinthian Landtag. There was an application from the Free Party in the Carinthian Landtag, and your head of state Peter Kaiser rejected him. We just brought in the same thing: Increase heating costs and introduce an additional electricity cost grant. Here in Parliament, in the National Council, Mr Muchich and his colleagues, she makes the request. This is a seemingly holy populism here in Vienna to demand something that you refuse in the countries where your responsibility is. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Talk to your head of state in Carinthia, and he'll decide in Carinthia!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e34010	There is now no mention of this. This concludes the discussions on these topics. [[10:48:27]] UG 24: Health
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e34031	We arrive at the UG 24: Health. In turn, parliamentarian cakes are on the line. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e34077	Mr President, thank you for the kind introduction. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I am so, and so on, totally unspeakable about Mr Gödl's speech. At the end of the care debate, he comes out of here and criticizes me that we are saying that politics must finally let actions follow. He criticises and says that the care policy is not done here, but at any rate in the nursing homes. – This is the same cynical approach as that of the head of state Stelzer in Upper Austria, who says: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Baumgartner]] What do we need measures? There are enough people in intensive care stations who work there day and night, they should continue to work, we don't have to do anything! [[Abg. Singer: No, he didn't say!]] Mr Gödl said the same thing: We don't need a care reform, we don't need to do anything, because the people on the spot are hacking anyway! [[Abg. Gödl: No, I didn't say!]] That's the point, and you know that very well! [[Further call at the ÖVP: He didn't say!]] The people on the spot are ready, burned out and can no longer be able to, and this blabla, which we all present to each other inside, will do nothing better if we do not also take the money into our hands. I mentioned earlier: It can't be that – I don't know – Sebastian Every year just like Santa Claus has promised care reforms, and then there's nothing in the pack except promises. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gödl.]] That's why I really ask you: Let us now resolve the miscarriage with each other and finally take the money into our hands for it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What's really close to me – you'll be able to do that in the Styria, please; Thank God there are colleagues like Mario Lindner, who really has a heart for the rescue service –: How can one go in the middle of the health crisis in Austria and say that people in the health sector are paying off a corona bonus – much too late again, anyway, an insanity that has not worked for six months – and then one forgets people who have been there for us day and night?- Oh, my God! Just those people with the Johannites, the Red Cross, the workers'-Samariter-Bund, who were there as rescuers and rescuers at a time without a protective mask, without a test strategy for us who had been there for us, cut out mosquito and short and took away the Coronabonus. That's what we said: Please, you can't forget about the rescue service and the outsourced area in the care! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What about the biomedical analysts in the laboratory institutes who have given everything in the course of the tests, with those people we thanked for, and where we today criticize that, so to speak, not fast enough is being tested because the government has also slept? It also forgets the government now again at the Coronabonus! And that's the point, Mr Gödl: On the one hand, something is promised, and then you even forget the people you complained about a few weeks ago. Unfortunately, this is not an access to health policy. Finally – I hope that this clarification will be made – to the health budget, in the middle of the health crisis: I can really ask – two-class medicine keyword – for equally good care, no matter if you live in the city or in the country, whether you are a tile army in Bregenz, whether you are a country teacher somewhere, no matter where you work, whether you go after your profession in Klagenfurt, in Graz or anywhere. Equally good for all people, that would be a common goal that we would have to fight with each other! Sebastian Kurz has promised, today the ÖVP claims: No, we never wanted that, even good performance for everyone, we don't need it! – This is a tragic state in the middle of the health crisis! The last point, which unfortunately has not been clarified, is that a coincidence? –: On the one hand, we have 1 billion for the corporations, and the money is loose. In the health sector, however, and for care, we have no money. Mr Schwarz as Secretary-General was still guilty of the answer to the following question: With what reason have you received 50,000 euros from private clinics? Why did the ÖVP get the money? [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz shakes the head.]] Why did they pay for your election campaign? Does this perhaps have a connection with the fact that you are not doing anything in the field of health care against two-class medicine and are not fighting for all people in Austria to get the same good performance?
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e34177	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e34199	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Let us come back to the real issue, namely the health budget and the UG 24 in the budget! We are talking here in total of 3.3 billion euros. These are the naked numbers. That is 200 million euros more than last year, i.e. 2021, and this, although we expect less money to be needed in 2022, in particular with regard to the fight against corona in the budget. That means we spend 200 million euros more – 200 million euros on health care. As a lion share of this additional expenditure, EUR 600 million is planned to cover social security contributions as a compensation for the reduction of health insurance contributions, which is indeed a relief measure for lower incomes. That is, we're taking tax money to relieve lower incomes – that's a social measure – and at the same time secure social security schemes in a sustainable way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What Mr Kucher probably forgot in his remarks is that another EUR 178 million is for transfers and targeted grants for hospitals. That means that there is also more money being spent to secure our health care. At least as important as these large figures, which one may not at times be able to imagine as correctly as possible, which may not really be so tangible for all of us, are the projects financed from this entire UG 24 or even from the Minister's house. Three examples: once – it has already been addressed by the Minister himself today – the additional expenditure for the training of nurses here in Austria. This not only enables us to find additional caregivers who want to make an education, but also to make it possible for people to get a qualification, so that they are better qualified in the care profession. The second example is the additional funding for community tourism, which is to bring low-level health services to the communities. But we have to say, unfortunately: The local authorities are also called on to submit their requests to participate in this pilot project in accordance with their requests. This is an important project. It brings something to people in local communities – we always hear that it is supposed that so little is done for the communities. There would be it is a concrete approach that communities, too, will become active in themselves, that they will enable people on the ground to receive low levels of health care. A word maybe to the community class: No, these are not additional homes for the communities, as some believe, but that is really medical and nursing staff of the highest quality. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Third example – it has not yet been liked – are the additives for primary supply. It is about that we want to expand primary supply units – in turn in the communities. This amounts to EUR 100 million. It is about enabling PVEs exactly where they are possible, but it is also about that we can also use this money there. This also requires a red tape reduction. We will have to talk to the stakeholders in this country again, so that everyone is clear: If we want people to get the best possible health care, as low as possible, in local communities, in the communities, it also needs less bureaucracy in building up these competences. We have the money. Now we have to see that we're just bringing it to the communities. There, too, the communities are required from my point of view. In total, the entire budget, when carefully analysed, also shows how far-reaching and how multi-layered our health care system is in Austria. I would therefore like to conclude with an appeal, namely the appeal that after the crisis we are finally going to resolve these branches, this complex, this small, which we have in Austrian health care, finally dissolve, in larger structures that are also easier to act, thinking and acting. Then we are also better prepared for further crises in health care and finally manage to have the same benefits for all people throughout Austria, regardless of whether at Lake Constance or Lake Neusiedler, whether at the top of the Czech border or down in the south, in the Gail Valley. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e34269	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e34290	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, it's already remarkable: Our Federal Government is planning a budget deficit of 22.5 billion euros for 2022. Although the health budget is more than EUR 3 billion as rarely before, the Federal Government is once again unable to set such priorities, neither for crisis management nor for structural change, which would be so urgent in the health field. The health sector is similar to the care sector in which an empty promise follows the other. Let me come to the numbers in detail! The largest budget position in the health budget is the Covid-19 crisis management fund or funds from it. These funds fall from just under EUR 2 billion to just under EUR 1.3 billion, while almost all the services provided there are halved from testing through protective equipment up to cost for epidemics and similar pi mal thumbs, there is only one position for which significantly more money is spent, more than EUR 120 million, and that is the procurement of Covid-19 vaccines. Now we can stand for vaccinations as you would like, but we know from the Federal Minister that we currently have just under five million doses of vaccination in Austria. and that the gifting of Covid vaccines is planned for the next year in the order of EUR 100 million. As this fits, someone has to explain to me. Perhaps it is because these vaccines have only limited durability and the vaccines we have stored can no longer be used next year. We shall still be able to find out in the framework of a parliamentary request. In principle, however, I already have the question of why Austria buys up vaccines on the world market, which obviously does not need it itself, but at the same time harms international solidarity, as WHO CEO Tedros said: Rich industrial states with more than 40 percent vaccination rates should stop the Covid purchases to ensure that the poor countries of the world come to vaccine quotas. We in Austria do this differently. We buy the vaccines expensive and give them away afterwards. Unfortunately, I do not recognize the sensibleness of this approach. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is also significant that in the context of the total expenditure provided for in the Covid-19 crisis management fund, no single euro is intended for a human increase or capacity increase in hospitals. Why is this so problematic? A second major budget item in the health budget is the financing of hospitals, the financing contribution to the countries. Mr Schalmeiner has already mentioned this: Yes, there is a significant increase compared to the previous year. This is based on the fact that this budget approach is based solely on the economic forecasts, because this is a percentage of VAT revenue. There will be an increase to around 800 million euros. This, ladies and gentlemen, is only true first of all if a positive economic development is actually taking place next year, which is more than questionable at the level of the Federal Government's plans. Secondly, it is only a return to the normal level as we had in pre-crisis times. The more than EUR 300 million that countries lack in the last two years – 2020 and 2021 – of dedicated funding is still not replaced by the Federal Government. Therefore, the consequence is that we have a staff shortage in the hospitals, that there is obviously not enough financial resources available to recruit additional staff to pay overtime to keep people there in employment longer and to make spare capacities that we would need in the hospitals right now. I would like to quote an article that I have read today. There was a nurse who works at an intensive care station quoted – you always bring examples of individual overloaded stations, and I know that there is and would like to quote that. This intensive caregiver says that everyone in her department has already been standing for well over 140 hours and she has to make representations and jump in. Yes, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't give the countries the money so that they can employ additional staff and pay overtime, then that's exactly what comes out. This is a policy on the back of health care workers and not a proactive management. There would be an urgent need for additional funds to be paid. We have called for this last year in the context of the budget debate, but it has been ignored by you. At that time, your predecessor, Anschober, is still daily eating. Today, it's again being ignored in an immeasurable way: There is no additional funding for hospitals and staff in this area. The whole thing is multiplied by the fact that not only has the hospital funding contribution been EUR 300 million in the last three years, but the total federal contribution for the countries in the last two years has been EUR 8 billion lower than it would have been calculatoryly necessary. That is, the countries are on a huge deficit. Although the Federal Government spends billions for everything, it is not for the countries and the funding of hospitals. It's a huge mistake, just in a situation like we've got it now. Another point I would like to address is that the EUR 600 million, which is budgeted for 2022, has also been mentioned by Mr Schallmeiner, who is a major reason why the health budget is still up-to-date. These 600 million euros are not in any way available to the health system, but are a cost replacement for income losses that will be made through the eco-social tax reform. This is 600 million euros for next year, and from next year on, there will be almost 1.3 billion euros of loss per year for social security schemes. Now you can say, yes, well, there is a reduction in the additional wage costs for low incomes. Yes, this is a very high goal, but these funds are missing from social security schemes in the medium and long term, because budgetary, legal coverage of these transactions will only take place by 2025, and as it continues, nobody knows. In the worst case, there will then be correspondingly strong social security benefits limitations. No one can want that from us! It is not only in hospitals, but also in the social security sector and the established area, which is financed by it, that there are large deficits, and there is in no way an active teaching in the framework of this budget proposal. We believe that much more needs to be done both in the hospital area and in the established area, and still needs to be done now. In order to ensure that supply in the established area works better and comprehensively in the sense of the quality strategy for Austrian health care in the future, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[11:05]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e34473	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. Next speaker is Mrs Gabriela Schwarz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e34500	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! Dear Philip Kucher – he doesn’t listen to me now, but maybe you’re interested! I have already found this in committee: If you're quoting, please. At the time, there was a written opinion by Sebastian Kurz and Mr Strache, in which it is explicitly said that there are equal contributions and equal benefits within social security schemes. ‘Performance harmonisation within the ÖGK’, it shall be recorded in writing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] – A wrong quote will not be correct if you repeat it. I recommend reading and asking to stick to the truth. My second point on truth: I don't know how it is in the Kärntner Landesverband des Österreichische Roten Kreuz, but our employees, volunteer as well as main profession, were well protected from the beginning. - So much to do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now I come to the real issue, on the subject of budget. I would like to draw attention to two important sub-areas. An area that is a special concern to my heart is mental health. I have mentioned it several times: There are much more cash-financed treatment sites on the part of the ÖGK, there are also 13 million euros for children and young people who have suffered especially under the pandemic. At this point I would like to thank the professional associations of psychotherapists who have jointly developed and will also implement this concept. We have succeeded in setting up a plan together with all those who work in this area, whether psychiatry, psychology or psychotherapy, which we will also implement. What's this about? – It’s about low-end offers, it’s about people finally getting out of the taboo of mental illness or mental suffering and getting targeted the treatment they actually need without long wandering around, no matter what kind of treatment they need. Also planned are much more fully-financed cash deposits in the field of psychotherapy. What does it need to do? – A suitable psychotherapy law and for psychologists the possibility to practice outside as well. This too is in implementation. The second issue, which is of course also extremely important, is medical care in the field of rural medicine, the attraction of the rural doctors, also the cash-financed rural doctors, through measures such as the specialist in general medicine – a sign of appreciation – but also new and more flexible models, much more opportunities to establish primary supply units or group practices. There will also be a comprehensive plan, because we also have to work there in a targeted way, and where it is necessary to create the right institution and the right opportunity. One issue that we should not ignore especially in times of pandemic is prevention. Please go to the precautionary checks! The doctors are here for you. Please do not ignore this possibility! I appeal again urgently: Consider the possibility of the third stitch when you're on it! And if you haven't been vaccinated yet, please let yourself be vaccinated! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e34569	Next speaker: Mrs Fiona Vierde. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e34591	Madam President. Valuable Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! [[The salutation also in sign language:]] Love deaf people! The health budget is once again a mere throughput on money without control levers. For 2022, corona-related expenditure has grown to 3.2 billion euros, because the government's pandemic management is so miserable. For example, the budget devours a further EUR 1.3 billion for crisis management, which is likely to last much longer in Austria than in other Western European countries. 804 million euros are intended for the hospitals, although you only transfer money without checking whether the hospitals provide the appropriate treatment quality; and from the quality reports we know that the quality differences between hospitals are enormous. 860 million euros are intended for social security – a permanent throughput, a strong trend. Among other things, this is the replacement for the KV contributions or contribution subsidies for the Farmers' Telephone – well, Farmers' Telephone: The ÖVP pretends that the greens are dancing. The Ministry of Health has also provided no control lever for this budget, as has been said: Pass-through posts. Only 70 million euros are for the health of Austria GmbH and the Ages, with a budget increase of only 0.3 percent. Interesting budget approach, after all, GÖG and Ages are responsible for the expertise and analysis in the pandemic – but analyses and expertise probably do not need the ministry, it counts the spoken word of the princes. While additional budget resources are planned for primary supply, no one knows what for. In the budget response, you explained to me that the additional funds are at least not intended for a billing catalogue of primary care with the cash offices – very sad. I find scandalous that the Ministry of Budgetary Requests has not allowed our questions to be addressed to the care homes who have died, because it is not supposed to be budget-relevant. Not a budget-relevant? - Excuse me, but I am sure you have been approved in 2020. We have therefore raised the issue that most of the nursing homes died only in the second wave in 2020, because the government had also slept in the summer of 2020 and had not taken measures for the nursing homes. With these requests, we have probably prevented even more deaths in nursing homes and a harder lockdown – and you call the requests non-budget relevant, okay. Now for vaccination in the pharmacy: There is no additional budget, either, but you, your predecessor, have been blocking the Greens and the ÖVP for a long time. At the same time, you wonder why the vaccination rate in Austria is so low. In short, my colleague Kaniak: Where did you get out of the right way? The FPÖ has so far supported us several times in the demand for vaccinations in pharmacies – yesterday you have suddenly been against it. But it is not a duty of vaccination, but only a matter of allowing people to be vaccinated near their place of residence in the pharmacy. I am aware that the doctor's chamber is blocking, but I find it interesting that as a pharmacist, you are now jumping on this government anti-Apothecary course. Have you received feedback from your pharmacists? Surprise: You will have the opportunity to agree to the request again today. [[Abg. Kaniak:... so formulated that we cannot vote!]] I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Summary: In the health budget, there is nothing new, no targets, no plan, no control lever. The health budget is a mere throughput, which will be higher next year, because the costs of crisis management continue to rise – in contrast to countries with more successful pandemic management. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[11:13]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e34720	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Bedrana Ribo. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e34745	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! In the budget session several issues are being discussed again and again, I would like to focus today on a subject that is not large in the budget, but is nevertheless very important. I would like to talk today about a subject that is important to me, but should all of us be very important, it is about the Young Carers. What are Young Carers? – Young Carers, 70 percent of whom are female, are children and young people under the age of 18, caring for or caring for family members such as parents, siblings or grandparents. In Austria there are 43 000 Young Carers, i.e. 43 000 children and young people aged between five and 18 years. Every year in November, attention is drawn to the situation of children and young people; November is the month of children's rights. The topic takes place there and there in a newspaper article – the rest of the year is then not much talk about it anymore, but these children are still there. None of these kids got on the forehead: I'm a nursing child, I care for my mom or my sick brother next to the school. Often, this doesn't even know the closest family members, often they don't even know the best friends, they don't tell around. It's connected with a lot of shame, with a lot of fear: Can you talk about it? Who am I allowed to talk to, the teacher, with the teacher? Can I trust him? Can I really admit it's too much for me? May I admit it's too much for us to need help? If the youth office comes, will I be taken away from my mom? – These are great fears for a child, believe me, I speak from experience. These children and young people are often overwhelmed by the situation, left alone by the system, alone, invisible. But that's exactly what needs to change and that's supposed to change. Now there are two projects of the Ministry of Health that are intended to address precisely this important topic and help to get the Young Carers out of the invisibility. First of all, the #visible project, which has already been presented in the media: Through low online advice, children and young people are supported with mentally ill parents, and in Austria more than 275,000 children are affected. The second is to come soon the app for Young Carers. The app is intended to provide individual assistance for nursing children and young people, but also for family members. There will be practical links, contacts, information material, a so-called ABC for Young Carers and much more. One sees on these two projects that it does not always take millions to accentuate in certain areas, but it needs patience and courage. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Bitch.]] I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the implementation of these projects today. I would also like to thank all those who remain on this subject who continue to fight for this issue. Finally, I have one more request to all of you: Don't look away, just look, maybe there's also a nursing child in your area, a young carer! Draw attention to these two projects, help you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e34806	Mr Wolfgang Mückstein has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e34827	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I can now present a number of points from the health budget. We have put in place a broad set of measures to attract primary care and general medicine: flexible working time models and multi-professional teamwork, for example, make general medicine more attractive in rural regions. The next year alone, we will use EUR 25 million from the European Primary Supply Resilience Fund. The aim is to double the number of primary supply units in Austria by 2026. Part of this attraction will also be the introduction of the specialist in general medicine. From 2022 there will be the competence center climate and health of Österreich GmbH, which will be built up. This competence centre is intended to develop a national strategy on climate and health and to support cross-sectoral cooperation. In the field of animal health and animal welfare, we also take great steps forward: We invest in the further development of the Austrian animal health service and thus create a modern organization. This will improve animal health, and this will help people's health to be a keyword of antibiotic resistance. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I would also like to mention the new Office for Consumer Health: As of 2022, we have a new institution to support the food authorities in Austria. Control along the food chain – from the field to the plate – and the safety of the food in Austria are thereby sustained. In animal welfare, we also increase the existing support for animal welfare and strengthen the fight against illegal puppie trafficking. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e34873	The next speaker is Mrs Verena Nussbaum. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e34894	Madam President. Dear High House! Dear Seers! ÖVP members have claimed since the summer of 2020, especially in the spring and summer months, that the corona pandemic has already passed. Obviously, the Federal Government closes its eyes to the facts and facts and acts – as we unfortunately see God today, 14 000 new infections have been reported – simply too late. We slid from one wave of infection to the next and one has the feeling that the Federal Government always works from one moment to another and does not think about the future at all. Somehow that's how the health budget appears to us. We now know that in the next ten years, due to retirement, new doctors are urgently needed to maintain our health system, which we have known so far, so well. The population has high confidence in our health system and, above all, in social security, because the principle of benefits in kind that I go to the doctor and receive the benefits is a central issue in Austria in the field of health care. Now, of course, it's interesting that the ÖVP wants to manoeve itself out there in terms of performance harmonisation, that it says: No, no, we didn't want to abolish the two-class medicine anyway, we still want to cement them now, just as honourable Members Schwarz, who meant, only the ÖGK insurers should get a uniform performance, but the officials and the self-employed can already get better performance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You can see the value again, because in the final effect it is about the finances: Which insured person is worth more or less? Also from the patient billion, which has always been strongly propagated and where it was claimed that everything will be saved by the social security reform – we have always said this is a breakdown of social security – nothing more can be heard. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] Unfortunately, this billion has been a fairy tale, we have said that from the very beginning, and this is still confirmed now, it is inexistent. But we could use more money in the health system, because what happens to the settled area? More and more doctors are going to pension, that is their good right, but the problem is that we now have not only a two-class society in the services, but also the urban-country gap is already a big problem that there are regions where there is neither a specialist care nor cash-contractual general medical care. There is also an extremely necessary action and one cannot say that we do projects and see when it is then possible. Also in the hospital area, it is now five after twelve – in order to draw attention to this action from last week – since, after a survey, each second doctor is thinking of turning his back on the hospital. Electoral doctors are still very attractive posts, because there you can demand what you want and can also divide your life very well. That is why I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[11:24]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e35063	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Josef Smolle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e35090	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The budget we are discussing today has been developed out of a crisis situation. However, it points to the future and it is also possible to set clear accents, in particular the eco-social approach, which is clearly noticeable. Very specific to the health budget: This represents a good 3.2 billion euros. This means, of course, only the immediate health budget of the federal government, but it was only EUR 1.2 billion in 2019. That is to say, one is quite willing and able to respond quickly and dynamically to special challenges, as this pandemic is. But regardless of that, there are valuable accents for the coming years. It has already been mentioned as promoting primary care, on the one hand primary supply units in general, but also the upgrading of the doctor/supply doctor for general medicine, who also receive the level of specialist in training and recognition. This also concerns the introduction of Community policies, which will be particularly important in the field of prevention, and will also help people before they get into the need for care, and lead to the right measures. It is also made in the health system in digitization. It is known that the E-Imppass has experienced a boost in this year, but Elga is also being further expanded and, of course, digital communication will play an important role in health care in the coming years. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] From a social point of view, I also see the increased promotion of early aid as something special. Aid for very small children, but also for mothers in pregnancy who may live under difficult conditions, is, I believe, very, very valuable. Ladies and gentlemen, my highlight in the goals of health care is to make available to all people in our country the target of effectiveness number one, namely the commitment, a low-slow, high-level, solidarity-funded health care. This is a very crucial goal. We will continue to strengthen and expand this here, and I think we can say: Hardly a country in the world comes as close to this goal or has achieved as much as Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e35136	The next speaker is Mr Gerald Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e35157	Madam President. In the meantime, the Minister has agreed. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I continue with my speech, which I gave yesterday to the economy and in which I told you about the Harvard study. Harvard has found that there is no connection between the vaccination rate and the infections. Then the matter would be relatively simple, then actually the concept of the ÖVP with the “vaccination, immunization, immunization” would be successful, which of course it is not. I have allowed myself to present a comparison between some countries here also graphically and in terms of content. [[a panel with four bar graphs on the speaker's desk]] You see, I compare the countries Holland, Austria, Kenya and Nigeria. In the Netherlands, 73 percent of the population have been vaccinated twice. In Austria, we have 63 percent twice-vaccinated – I have these figures from “Our World in Data” – in Kenya 3.7 percent and Nigeria 1.49 percent. Now, if you were to follow the logic of the ÖVP, you would have to expect that in Nigeria and Kenya, the infection figures would explode, that the death figures would go through the ceiling and that everything would be great with us and in Holland. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Baumgartner and Mr Loacker]] – Listen a little before you cry in between again and again! Of course it's not. I also created a graphic, and you will see the exploding figures for Austria and Holland – the curves go to the extreme – while the curves for Nigeria and Kenya are de facto on the ground. [[Keeping a table with a curved diagram on the daily new infections with Covid-19 in the countries mentioned above]] [[Abg. Baumgartner: They're younger!]] What do the figures look like in absolute values? – In Austria, there are 8.9 million inhabitants, 11 746 deaths – I took over the numbers from Johns Hopkins University. Holland has 17,44 million inhabitants, 19 193 deaths, Nigeria has 206 million inhabitants, so far 2 968 deaths – only! – and Kenya similar: 54 million inhabitants and 5 319 deaths. By moving this percentage to the population, the figures for Nigeria and Kenya are in the promille range: 0.0014 percent in Nigeria, 0.0098 percent in Kenya, 0.13 and 0.11 percent in Austria and Holland. So that means: If the WHO says this is a global pandemic, then the virus is the same worldwide, then the numbers speak a clear language. Thus, the Harvard study is fully supported in content, with the consequence that an increase in the vaccination rate does not, of course, reduce the number of infections. [[Abg. Loacker: The fact that such people are coming to the National Council is an insanity!]] I know that destroys your narrative, I know. [[Abg. Loacker: I am ashamed of my... Tyrolean...!]] I know. I can add that the WHO Director for Europe, Dr. Hans Kluge, has also said: Do not stop the pandemic with vaccinations. - So much for it. What do you ignore? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] What does the Austrian Parliament ignore except for the Freedom Party? [[Abg. Stögmüller: Dewurmungsmittel!]] What primarily ignores the mainstream? [[Abg. Lightness: Mr. Colleague...!]] Mr Health Minister, what do you continue to ignore, although you are beginning to understand the seriousness of the situation, but are being stopped by the ÖVP because the ÖVP's narrative is that vaccinations against everything help, naturally wants to maintain and thus go unabated on the unvaccinated? – You ignore the CDC, the Weekly Report of 6. August, in which it was found that vaccines can naturally pick up and pass on the virus – partly in a higher intensity –. [[Call the ÖVP:Aspirin!]] They ignore their own age, which reports permanent vaccination breakthroughs. For example: 2. September, for over 60-year-olds at 68.62 percent – this is alarming! They ignore the vaccine side effects reported to the EMA. You ignore that. They ignore that 17 252 deaths have been reported in the meantime. They ignore side effects – now 1 161,000 mild, medium and severe side effects have been reported. You're gonna move it all away. They also ignore the deaths despite vaccinations. I can also give two examples. ==References====External links== About 40% of the latest covid deaths in Maryland were twice vaccinated in October. Finally, I would like to say one more thing to you, and please look at this panel carefully! [[on the speaker’s desk, which reads the heading “British Government Agency:” “11.10.2021 - 07.11.2021” “Covid-19 Dead: 4.135” “Of which vaccinated: 3,284 / 79.9%”]] The British, namely the British government agency, the United Kingdom Health Security Agency, are now those who report the most correct and daily cases of covid death. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Look at this! Look at this! For the period 11.10. to 7.11., she reported that there were 4 135 deaths in England – that is, the government agency – of which 3 284 were twice vaccinated, i.e. 79.9 percent. [[Abg. Stögmüller: Vaccinations... total...!]] Forget Please tell the narrative, clarify the population at last and do not act against the unvaccinated people who know these numbers and want to protect themselves! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e35312	Mr Werner Saxinger, you are now speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e35333	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Brandtätter: Please, Doctor, does that mean we shouldn't have to immunize?]] I did not really want to speak to the FPÖ today – I did this in detail yesterday – but, Mr Hauser, your speeches and arguments are really the best advertising for the vaccination. A comparison of the figures in Europe with those in Nigeria and Kenya is really an intellectual expression. You have to say that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] But let's go on the subject: Health is not everything, but without health everything is nothing. [[Abg. Hauser: Let's say... last table!]] This banal but very wise saying becomes aware of us again and again in Corona times. The Austrian government is very much worth the health of the population. The draft estimate 2022 represents payments of 3.2 billion euros for health. This is an increase of 3.9 percent. However, the increase is mainly due to the financing of crisis management measures. I take a part, my favorite theme: the Covid vaccines. Do you know how much we have spent on the vaccines and on the tests so far? – So far, we have spent 460 million euros on the vaccines, three times for the testing. That means: Conservative estimates in the ministry date from up to 1.8 billion for testing until the end of 2021. Conversely, I'd rather, I'd have to tell you. Then we probably don't have a problem anymore. Testing does not replace vaccination – better vaccination than testing. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Cashier: But vaccination does not replace testing either!]] A few more figures from the health budget – these are figures in detail, but very interesting: In the first nine months of 2021, we spent 183 million euros on the vaccines, for logistics – that is takeover, storage, distribution – 12 million euros and for accessories 4.7 million euros. 529 million for vaccines are budgeted for 2022. That means: We are well equipped for first, second vaccinations and also third-party stings. Austria is also involved in an EU grant project, because the pandemic is over, even if there are enough people vaccinated in other countries. [[Abg. Hauser: Nigeria maybe?]] We have donated 250 000 doses to Ukraine, 100 000 to Lebanon, 50 000 to Tunisia and one million to Iran. Austria is thus doing great things in the international fight against the corona pandemic. But it's already weird and sad for me: These countries want to vaccination, they have no vaccine. We have plenty of vaccine and have to motivate and convince people. Our impoverishment and skepticism is a problem for the rich countries, the prosperous countries. We already live – from my point of view – in a very strange time when people have to be lured by lotteries, money, sausages, schnitzel to make use of a life-saving, effective, safe, free vaccination. This often makes me unsavory and sad, but it is. – Wurst, it's the main thing that's going to be vaccinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e35421	Mrs Henrike Brandstötter spoke on an actual point of order. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e35449	Mr Hauser claimed that the figures in African countries, especially Kenya and Nigeria, are particularly low. I'm actually correcting: There are high covid numbers in these countries. But there is little evidence about it because there is so little testing because people are particularly quickly buried in rural areas, because over the entire African continent 60 percent of the population under 24 years old and because there are cross-immunizations in particular – Marburg and the like. That's why the numbers are low.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e35476	Mr Gerald Loacker, you have spoken. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e35497	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Yes, all of us are tired of this pandemic story. The entire population has already fought a little, and we too in the political business, but this will accompany us even longer. All the more so, I think, it is also necessary to look at what works well, what does not work so well and where we spend the money in the pandemic fight. From a budget request, we now know that we have a total test cost of 1.6 billion euros in this year – 1.6 billion euros only for the testeries that have not taken us madly much in international comparison to the pandemic fight, that is fair to say. The cost of vaccination amounted to EUR 0.47 billion. That is, 0.47 for vaccination and 1.6 for testing. If we were world champions instead of test world champions, then the situation – especially in Upper Austria and in Salzburg – would now look different. That is why it is important to stress the vaccination, as painful as it may be for an Eastern FPÖ member. [[Congratulation with NEOS, ÖVP and Greens.]] Unfortunately, we may get into a rhythm where every six to twelve months we might need some kind of refreshment vaccination. [[Abg. Belakovich: I think every four months! Or both!]] You don't know that with certainty yet, but it's possible. Then it would be appropriate to look ahead: What does that mean, and what does the Republic have to do when it comes to that? I think it's important to tell people: This 2G rule, as we now have it, will not get away as quickly as possible, so that we will have to do even longer – so that we can depend on being a citizen, as an employed, self-employed or self-employed person. That also means: If it turns out that there is a need for a regular vaccination that also needs to be updated regularly, just as you always need to adjust the vaccine to the flu virus in the influenza, you should consider: How do we do that? We will not have permanent vaccination centres, vaccinations, vaccinations in St. Stephen's Cathedral, vaccinations on the island and I don't know what to do. Then you need a completely different logistics. But this also means that existing infrastructure needs to be used better, and that one has to approach the question of whether freshener vaccinations can also take place in a pharmacy across the boundaries of the stand. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This also means dealing with data silos in health care. What can we do with the many data we have? If the Federal State of Vorarlberg has deleted the data from the first and second vaccinations for data protection reasons and therefore cannot actively invite you to third-party vaccination, it is seen that data protection in Austria leads to health problems. That shouldn't be the result. We need a data protection that works in such a way that I don't have the data from colleagues Klangmeiner and he doesn't mean it. This is data protection. But we do not need data protection, which means that a health authority does not have the data of another health authority. That is, we also need to focus on inviting people to vaccinations on a regular basis. This can mean a general benefit. There are also other vaccinations that need to be refreshed, and it would also be helpful if people were to receive an invitation because their vaccination is under way. I do not think that the Ministry is asking these questions. We don't see anything in the budget. Whatever I would like to say, because we like to cooperate in principle, but feel that the shoulder closure always lacks an shoulder with which you want to close It has been announced medially, there will be a vaccination law. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Worm]] My group supports vaccination in health professions. But if I have to read that experts already have this draft and the parliamentary clubs do not have this draft, I have to say: This is not a form of cooperation. [[Abg. Belakovich: This is not really surprising!]] It's just a squirrel and improvisation, as we've known from the Ministry of Health for the last 20 months. [[Abg. Worm: You are naïve, Gerald!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Call “Oe24”!]] – I got the draft on Twitter from an expert. But it can't be that I have to organize “Oe24” and Twitter designs because the Ministry of Health is not able to offer five parliamentary clubs what it sends to other people! It's just not a cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e35592	Next speaker: Mrs Martina Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e35616	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in Parliament! I myself come from the forest district, i.e. from a rural region. There will be an ever-increasing challenge to maintain good medical care in the area, because the house doctor’s coordinations can only be difficult or no longer re-occupied. That's how we see: The needs and requirements of the new generation doctors are simply different from those of the older generation. In the foreground of the decision, it is often relevant how the job is designed and what working conditions rule. Therefore, we find in the budget increased the expansion of group practices and primary supply. Many also deposit their cash contracts. A rapid implementation of the specialist in general medicine is therefore a very important point. As a representative of the forest district, it is crucial for me to get a good medical care there, because it cannot be at the postcode how good or how fast the medical care is. The health system consists of the doctors and the care staff. Last week, under the motto “5 after 12”, there was a call for help from the nursing staff. The action was about a massive lack of caregivers. That is why I would like to bring the concerns of nurses and nurses here to Parliament. After the long time of the pandemic, there is a great lack of power. Of course, it would be particularly important, Minister, to speed up care reform and care training. This is simply where gaps need to be closed. The training must not begin only with 17 but already much earlier. Money must also be taken into account for training costs and retraining. However, I would like to stress one point in particular: The eco-social tax reform can also be found in the health budget. We have a contribution of EUR 600 million in health insurance contributions for 2022. To this end, I would like to say an example: An ASVG insurer with a gross wage of 1,750 euros can save 300 euros per year. They'll stay right in the wallet. But we also find in this budget a post for vaccinations, covid vaccinations. That is why I would like to thank all of you once again: Let's get the fuck out of here! This is good for protection Your own health, but also for society and, of course, for the protection of our health system.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e35665	Next speaker: Mr Rudolf Silvan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e35689	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen at home! Mr. Federal Minister! Today I will hold back with my criticism because of the precarious situation in our country – 14 000 new infections. I would like to take a brief look at the care. Yeah, it's true, you're in a difficult situation with the ÖVP national leaders. The performance of the ÖVP national leaders is clear, as we have seen in recent weeks. However, you are already responsible, Mr. Federal Minister, for you should present a care plan. They should explain how the funding looks and debate with the national leaders. I would like to mention a few more things about reducing health insurance contributions. It's just pathetic to relieve small incomes, but you could have done it differently. Something is really very interesting and logical, and anyone who knows about wage accounting knows this of course: If you lower social security contributions, more food for wage tax remains. It is the case that Mr Blümel, Minister of Finance, is carefully involved in the planned reduction in health insurance contributions. [[The speaker put a table entitled “Separation of CV contributions”, which lists figures on income, discharge and wage tax, on the speaker’s desk.]] We have been charged by the Federal Chamber of Labour [[Abg. Gödl:... must replace it!]] With an income of 1,500 euros, the discharge is 315 euros per year, and of this the Minister of Finance receives 57 euros. At 2 000 euros gross, a discharge of 336 euros per year, of which 89 euros is received by the Minister of Finance. For pensioners, of course, exactly the same thing: 1 350 euros – 283 euros discharge, 51 euros the Minister of Finance receives, and so on and so on. [[The speaker put forward a paper entitled “More income for the federal government through higher wage tax: EUR 190 million, loss of KV contributions: EUR 900 million” on the speaker’s desk.]] At first glance, the amounts may look very small, but in the final effect, the Minister of Finance receives 190 million euros each year in wage tax from those people who are supposed to be relieved. The ÖGK, the Austrian Health Fund, is taxed at EUR 900 million per year. That's not how discharge looks, dear government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It would be much easier. Instead of inventing this structure, where the Minister of Finance might say next year: well, let's look at whether the ÖGK has made enough reforms, let's look at how it was last year!, Mr. Finanzminister of the ÖGK does not believe the figures and the ÖGK holds on the Bandl, it would have been possible, as the SPÖ has already proposed, to raise the tax exemption from, for example, 1 050 euros to 1,700 euros. In the final effect, therefore, it is again a complicated structure, in the final effect it is such that the ÖGC is to be weakened so that the social security of workers is to be weakened. As always, I say: Whenever an ÖVP politician sits in the Federal Chancellery, the workers are worse. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e35750	Next speaker: Mrs Elisabeth Scheucher-Pichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e35771	Ladies and gentlemen! Fortunately, we have enough good vaccine in Austria. For me, there is a single relevant statement for the breakdown of health in the current situation: Please continue to comply with the hygiene measures! Talk to the doctor or doctor of your trust! And please, ladies and gentlemen, let yourself be vaccinated! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e35795	Next speaker: Mr Dietmar Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e35820	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister, you have already had to face so much criticism – I will give you some praise. This is for the simple reason that we have an increase in the budget in UG 24, an increase in animal welfare. It's not everyday. In the discussion on the budget, we have learned that the amount of animal welfare will be increased by EUR 170 000 – if I still have the number right in mind – by EUR 170 000. It is also urgently necessary that this be done, even if there are strikingly unreasonable persons who believe that if we have an increase in the budget for animal welfare, some Members are getting into the bag. There is also that. This is not the case, but it really benefits animal welfare. Animal Protection Makes School is a project that we urgently need, where the money really flows in. They have said that the legal trade in puppies should be dealt with. I think you meant illegal trafficking in puppies – we're going to deal with it and not the legal one, we're going to leave it. The illegal trafficking of puppies must be addressed. ==References== A meeting of the Committee on Health on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. It's very important about full column floors – it's being permanently discussed, it's being demonstrated all the time –: The full-column floors must be abolished! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We still have exceptions to bonding, Minister. There's something you need to do. We still have the piglets castration without stunning, where it is necessary to do something. We still have the scatter cat theme, wherever we have to do something. That is, we have a busy year ahead of us in which decisions need to be made. I think it is necessary not only to attack the Minister of Health's budget, but also to transfer from the Minister of Agriculture's budget to animal welfare and animal welfare, so that we can finally remove the problems I have listed in Austria from the world.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e35874	Next speaker: Mrs Alexandra Tanda. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e35895	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! Ladies and gentlemen at home! A nice lunch from Parliament! Today is the second day on which we will hold the budget debate and discuss other very important budget areas, especially the health budget – how important this is, we are probably very aware of all of us in this situation. But what do we hear? – Figures about numbers, on the argument follows the counter argument. What does not, however, reflect either argument or reality – neither in terms of the current situation nor the status of the corona control – is the constant integration of the word division. Mrs Belakovich von der FPÖ used it nine times in her speech yesterday. The diversity of opinion is a sign of democracy, legitimate, and definitely no division! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In doing so, the essential importance of the budget for our society is almost in the background and the importance is lost. What are we debating here? – We debate a state budget that allows us as a society to live in peace, in prosperity, with good standard of living, with good infrastructure and in health. That's the essential! We're talking about a state budget. I would like to give this figure for the health budget, this 3.2 billion euros, a slightly more personal face: We spend 123 million euros more than last year in the coming period, with the aim of enabling all of us – and there are really all meant, not opposition or government party – a health care and health care, quality assurance, at the highest level, regardless of education, status and gender. In particular, I would like to welcome the special focus of the gender-specific precautionary programmes and health care programmes. You won't believe it: Gender medicine is not an ideology, it is not a feminist ideology. The concept of gender comes from social sciences. What makes gender medicine possible? – It enables both sexes to be taken into account. That is, both sexes. have an advantage from gender medicine. And the budget is there too: Consideration is given to specific gender differences, but also to the socio-cultural dimension. I would like to say that gender-neutral medicine brings disadvantages for both men and women. In women, heart attacks are later recognized, men rarely come to the idea that they may also have osteoporosis. In my view, it is very pleased that this objective of effectiveness and equality is given particular attention in the health budget. In the health budget, however, there is also a great position in the fight against pandemics, and I would like to conclude by devoting a few words to them. We are in the second year of the pandemic, we are still in a social and health exceptional situation. This situation is anything but normal, and I therefore cannot understand how one can still believe that a covid vaccination is private. We can simply and simply can't afford it anymore – the figures have already been mentioned by our colleagues. Apart from the fact that we cannot afford it, however, it is human tragedies that take place both in families and in hospitals. 14 416 New infections! How can you talk about private matters? Vaccination is a contribution to curbing infection, even though ladies and gentlemen from the FPÖ always claim against every reason that that would not be so. Free vaccination is absolutely important. I don't understand! It is a right to be vaccinated, not a duty. That's like the right to vote. We all choose. It is a moral obligation to participate in democracy, in the process. This also includes the possibility of being able to be vaccinated free of charge. Then we can use the budget for other topics, for more important priorities than perhaps to make these test marathons. Then we can use the budget for restoring and maintaining the health of our population. Finally, Mr Kucher from the SPÖ: I do not know in which country you are doing the rescue service, but in Tyrol the rescue service is on the road from the beginning with protective equipment, with mask and full assembly. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e35960	Next speaker: Mr Mario Lindner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e35984	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Much has already been said about the failure of the government in the last few days and weeks in this debate. This failure is not only apparent in the entire pandemic fight, but also in this budget, especially in the field of health. The people who work in the health sector have gone to the streets all over Austria last week to make clear: It's five after twelve! Ladies and gentlemen, I would say: It's 15 after 12! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is precisely these people who want a policy that is at last seriously interested in our health system, a policy that is more than headlines in the fight against the need for care, the lack of doctors, the mental crisis of our children and young people. And they want a policy that finally has enough budget for These challenges are at the disposal of workers in the health sector. But what are you doing? – They start playing the professional groups against each other. The best way to see this is to use the Coronabonus: One gets a bonus, the other won't get one. This interplay of health professionals makes me incredibly angry. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The senior doctor is grateful for his important work in the pandemic – I say consciously: the 500-euro coronabonus, but the rescuers, the external cleaning forces, the speech-hour aids, the security forces and many, many more go empty. They all don't get the bonus. Mr Health Minister, these are the workers who first came into contact with the sick, who drove the infected to the hospital. They are people who have cleaned at the Covid stations, they are workers who have controlled entry at hospital entrances. These and many more people are still doing this now, during the fourth wave. It all leaves the government in the rain – and that is really a shame. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The true heroes and heroes of the crisis are our paramedics, our rescuers, our civilians, our honorary and principal officials in the military organizations. All these people, these workers, are in the pandemic at the front, not Mr Mückstein, not Mr Schallenberg, not Mr Blümel and even not old Chancellors. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Health Minister! Can you imagine what people in our employment organisations have been doing since March 2020? - I do. I was a volunteer medicament myself. When we did not yet know what happened to this pandemic, how we can protect ourselves and what we must pay attention to, it was my colleagues who risked their own health so that their fellow human beings will be cared for medically. You will have the greatest respect, our recognition and the Coronabonus. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These are the heroes who are proud of our Republic, and exactly these heroes deserve the Coronabonus: the colleagues from the workers'-Samariter-Bund, the Green Cross, the Johannites, the Red Cross, the professional rescues and many more. They went to a hospital more than 60,000 times in 2020 with corona patients, and the figures of the SVS are still not included. Ladies and gentlemen! The Coronabonus is exemplary because it shows exactly how this government's health policy works: to announce large, to delay for a long time, and to leave behind those people who need a fair policy most. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Over 9 000 people have already supported this demand on Parliament's website. Take the opportunity and agree to this request! Let us give the people who keep our health system up to date the financial recognition they have earned for so long! Let's finally give our heroes the coronabonus! - Cost what it wants. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[12:04]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e36148	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Angela Baumgartner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e36176	Madam President. Minister of Health! Mrs. Minister! Health is our highest good, and unfortunately this is considered too often to be self-evident and only when we have lost it. We are discussing today the health budget, which is very much in line with the corona pandemic. We have been in an exceptional situation for many months. Thanks to science, there is vaccination and it works; perhaps it does not protect 100 percent from infection, but it protects more than 90 percent from a severe course. My cousin only has a lung wing after a severe illness, my brother-in-law suffered from cancer – they both had Corona and survived well with relatively mild course. The vaccination has worked, they are both very good again. In this example, you can see: Vaccines are important. Why is vaccination so important? – The first priority is, of course, the discharge of the health system, because the workforce in hospitals and in health facilities has been inhumane for months. Those who can be vaccinated should therefore do so in order to protect our children and to protect people who cannot be vaccinated for various reasons. It is also important to get the infection figures under control in order not to endanger positive economic development and thus jobs. Indeed, good economic development strengthens our budget and, subsequently, our health system, because we can increase the supply in the health system through higher revenue. This includes attracting the various medical professions as well as caring. Vaccination also plays a significant role in this respect, because no one will want to get into this area if the load is so high and it is so challenging. Even before the pandemic, it was difficult to get enough health personnel. My son made the training before he studied medicine as a diplomat health care professional. It is a very demanding training and the later profession is not only a profession, but one also needs a vocation. I therefore have a great request and address it to the FPÖ in particular – it is heard that more than half of its Members should already be vaccinated, thank God: Help Please join them in overcoming the pandemic and thereby saving lives and reducing the care professions! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e36212	Next speaker: Mr Peter Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e36237	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! During the debate, Mr Saxinger quoted my colleague Gerald Hauser's speech as an 'intellectual expression'. [[Call the ÖVP: Is it also complete!]] - But you can read it. I try again and I would like to ask everyone here in the room to work together and discuss at an eye level. I believe that the Austrians have the right to learn concrete figures, data, facts, and that is not an intellectual sense. I can only say it again: It's no secret, the source is UK Health Security Agency. There you can read the report; it is in English, but you will understand that. I, too, made the effort to read it through. The analysis from England is relatively simple. I say it again: You should discuss numbers, data, facts. The English have the advantage that they are first and foremost at vaccination, as we all know, by a few months ahead and that they have a semi-functioning system to capture figures, data, facts. This, as we all know, is partly lacking in Austria. In the past, NEOS always criticized this. Now NEOS don't want to hear numbers at once, if they don't match what they believe. In short, to the explanation: The English have found – and this can be read – that after vaccination there may well be a moderate differentiation between the unvaccinated and the vaccinated in relation to their hospitalization. There is a moderate difference, not a significant one – that is a statement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] What the English also make quite clear in their report is that there is no difference in infections between the vaccinated and the unvaccinated. To do this, most people will know that, in principle, there have been no measures in England for several months, and people can move freely there. And if someone is tested in England – that is the difference to the total amount, also mathematical – then it makes no difference whether this person is vaccinated or unvaccinated. You make a test because you may feel sick or something else. These are the figures, the facts, Mr Saxinger, and you should take note of them. I'd like to give you the report or I'll send it to you by e-mail if you want. To call this “intellectual expression ” is not to be found here in the house. You can criticise if facts are wrong, but in Bausch and Arches, simply to put it all as fakes or incorrect, does not bring us further throughout the discussion. I say it again, because it always comes back: What was the position of the liberals? – We have always said that if someone decides for himself, he wants to be immunized: of course, gladly! We never forbade anyone to be vaccinated, that was never the statement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] If you give me a statement, I'll say, Mea culpa! [[Mr Scherak and Mr Belakovich.]] But now comes the But: However, we have always said that it is a personal consideration of risks and benefits. Now we come to the benefits – and that, please, you have already recognized yourself. I remember today that the state government in Tyrol is now calling: Four months after the second sting, let yourself be given the third sting! That means that what we've been telling you for months now, liberals or I have been telling you personally. Unfortunately, the effect of God is very, very short. You should just say that honestly. You wouldn't break a bag out of the crown, dear ÖVP and greens. Tell people at eye level what things are! So, these are the advantages you have – and we should not ignore the disadvantages either. Of course, this vaccination has side effects – partly severe, and you can die of it. [[Abg. Salzmann: But she works, and that's important!]] [[Call at the ÖVP: You can also die of Corona!]] All of this is evidenced, and we believe: An adult person, when he looks at everything objectively and talks with his doctor, must decide for himself what decision he makes. As far as you have to expect massive resistance from us in the future, I tell you that is when it comes to child vaccination and child force vaccination. Leave our children alone! The children should be protected in this area because it does not benefit the children. There you will also have to expect massive resistance from us in the future. Secondly, you will experience massive resistance if you really want to enforce it to introduce a vaccination obligation in the care area. You will get to know a group that, on its own experience on site in hospitals and nursing homes, has very good reasons not to be vaccinated and which can also argue with this decision professionally. If they decide for themselves: Costs, benefits, risk – my decision is no, then you have the first to accept and, secondly, not to artificially strengthen the problem of under-retirement in this area. I would point out this explicitly to you, and otherwise we, as a liberal, have always been for a meaningful discussion on the measures. We demand a corona policy with heart and brain, no driving and no designations such as: These are all stupid or anyone who doesn't understand that is intellectually inferior! We call for a discussion at the level of attention, figures, data and facts and honesty for the citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e36312	Mr Saxinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e36336	I have two actual corrections, one made by Mr Hauser: I did not call him “intellectual“, but I quoted the comparison of the figures from Kenya and Nigeria with those from Austria as intellectual inadequacies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] The second actual correction goes to Mr Worm: According to Ages data, 75 percent of patients are unvaccinated and 25 percent vaccinated at intensive care stations.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e36360	Mr President, you have to start by explaining what has been said by the honourable Member in order to explain, as it were, why this matter needs to be corrected. [[Abg. Worm: Just like that! Which one did I meet?]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Not a new speech!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e36400	In his speech, Mr Wurm reported that most of the intensive patients were vaccinated at intensive care stations in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e36443	I am now no longer able to speak on this subject. I thank Mr Mückstein. [[12:15:05]] UG 14: Military Affairs
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e36464	I welcome Mrs. Claudia Tanner in our midst and end this division by UG 14: Military matters to come. I have the first speech by Mr Robert Laimer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e36492	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, my contribution to the debate on military matters is too short to address concrete numerical comparisons. I would therefore like to carry it out by means of a chart based on the gross domestic product and our claim of 1 per cent of the economic performance. These are the real conditions of the Austrian state defense by 2030. It shows where the trip is going [[a panel on which a curve diagram with two curves can be seen, holding in height]] The lower course is Austria – it goes downhill until 2030 de facto. The upper course is the EU average – it goes uphill. Mrs. Minister, if you are celebrating a historic budget with the support of the media, I have to go back to Bruno Kreisky's era when we spent 1 percent of the economic performance for the state defense and not, as at present, 0.62 percent. [[Abg. Höfinger:... would I be very grateful to you!]] The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, also this budget, and I believe that we can all agree on it, will not overcome the investment backlog. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Salzmann]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] The fall in investment from 2021 to 2022 is more than 40 million euros in procurement. Special investments – as in the previous year the 18 helicopters of the Leonardo brand – are budgeted, but not yet in dry cloths, especially since the government-to-government business with Italy is still not legally completed, is still finalized. – So far, so sobering is the budget. But for me, the embarrassingly perceived show policy is really disturbing, which constantly finds its extension. This happened, for example, at a blackout event on 30. September at the Donaubühne in Tulln in Lower Austria – advertised and propagated like a rolling-stones concert. In the case of serious cases, the blackout is unplugged, but light and sound effects are rather dampened. In my home town of Sankt Pölten, we have been dealing for some time with this incidental disaster scenario, we have renewed and expanded the emergency power units in the municipal area, tripled the diesel volume of the urban economic court and completed ongoing events with the population. This goes without show elements, ladies and gentlemen! At least this government would have to have experience with political blackout. The Blackout in Turquoise is characterized in particular by its strategy in the pandemic, since the plug has long been drawn. Ladies and gentlemen, while the Inferno was waving at the Rax in Hirschwang, a Black Hawk was on display at the Heldenplatz on the National Day – including in honour of Mrs. Minister. As a result of the fire disaster, it comes to light: Of nine Black Hawks, just two are operational. Italy, Germany and Slovakia actively and solidly support our great forces under the leadership of the voluntary fire brigades. Thank you for this – as did the German and Hungarian soldiers who fled Austrian citizens from Kabul in August, especially since the official Austria did not comply with its care obligation in good time, even though elite soldiers from the Austrian federal army had to risk their lives at the airport. All of this shows that we need to be urgently and sufficiently sensitive to future events – difficult, with this ruling government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] In conclusion: The 2013 Austrian Security Strategy is therefore also to be realigned, as both risk images have intensified in many areas and the geopolitical situation has changed. It needs a comprehensive and broad discourse in Parliament. Plans in the back room, Mrs. Minister, just like the Austrian Federal Army, where at the hour soldiers are used to bag test kits in a trading group: We're not gonna watch that! We will not see how from the strategic reserve of the Republic a Sacklpickerverein becomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e36568	Next speaker: Mr Friedrich Ofenauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e36590	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Mr Laimer, the term ‘Sacklpickerverein’ is the last one. So I do not allow this to happen to the soldiers of the Austrian Federal Army and the activities they carry out. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is unworthy of this House, and the soldiers have not deserved it. They are and they remain the strategic reserve of the Republic. Mr Laimer, if you are always happy to take bonds to history and to Bruno Kreisky, I would like to address – like Kreisky: Learn S’ story! For who was it, for example, who did not allow the necessary disciplines to be carried out in the helicopters? – It was Darabos and Klug. There's nothing to help your show policy with the heart ownership of any panels. This military state defense budget in 2022 shows continuous upward development since 2015. We have at our disposal 2,713 billion euros for the next year to resolve the investment backlog, which is true, but this is the highest budget. It shows up and that will continue in the next few years. That's important. - Congratulations, Mrs. Federal Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to add one thing: On every military visit, no matter where, with the Minister of the State or even during examination visits with the Federal Parliamentary Commission, we can find that the soldiers of the Austrian Federal Army are very motivated to approach their mission, are highly motivated to fulfill their orders and also to demonstrate an incredible improvisation capacity. For this purpose, whether at home or abroad, the female soldiers are and soldiers of the Austrian Federal Army at this point also thanked once more. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Safety is not a condition, safety needs to be developed daily in different areas. Think of cyber threats, blackouts, hybrid threats! This is about recognizing dangers and, above all, creating awareness of them – not only of the Austrian federal army, they have the consciousness, they know that, but also of the population. In the population too, this idea of national defence, the spiritual defence must be implemented. The central task of the Austrian federal army, the military state defense with the skills necessary for it, must continue to be maintained. That's it, and that's the way it is. In short, there will be investments in the following year: 100 million euros will be invested in the autarchy of the barracks over the next five years, 145 million euros being available for the renovation of the barracks. 77 million euros are planned in the budget for the acquisition of new helicopters. While the central reform is not so budget-effective, it is important to shorten decision-making channels to strengthen the force and, above all, to enforce and implement the principle of unity of leadership in all areas of the Austrian Federal Army. For mobility – pandur, mountain tanks – there is 150 million euros, for the area of Miliz 49 million euros for vehicles, protective vests and radio systems. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the budget can be seen. It is a budget with which the residues can be eliminated, which entails a continuous upward development of the budget path and which is the guarantee that the Austrian Federal Army can fulfill its orders in the interests of the security of the inhabitants of the Republic of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e36659	Next speaker: Mr Reinhard Eugen Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e36680	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I shall put forward a motion for a resolution tabled by the FPÖ: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] I put this motion for a resolution at the beginning of my speech, because it essentially documents that this EUR 3.3 billion would have been the budget to which – if you had not ended government cooperation with us in 2019 and if your party had adhered to those agreements – we agreed in the government negotiations on the defence budget. You will now say in your statement that this 2.7 billion euros will achieve a historic budget. This is a bit distorted, Mr Laimer has already mentioned it. At the beginning of the 1980s – 1983 to 1986, to be precise – we had a defense budget among the freedom ministers of fresheners and krunes, which accounted for more than 1 percent of the gross domestic product at that time. At the time, we were able to set up a 200 000 man army, provide a military army, and accompany it with the necessary infrastructures. At that time, I think, this was a great progress for the Austrian federal army, and we still benefit from the things that were set up at the time. The ratio to gross domestic product is a bit changing, as you are right, because the gross domestic product is not an absolute size, but changes over the years. I just wanted to tell you that. In this 2.7-billion budget there is some positive note. They recorded the first shares of the 70 million euros for the Austrian militia there. They also place a heavy weight on the autarchy of barracks, which we very much welcome. This is the idea of the security islands – which we had agreed with you at the time for the term of office of Minister Kunasek – which ensure that not only the Austrian federal army can act autonomously, but also that we can provide assistance for the civil infrastructures needed in a crisis. I'm also positive that we're going to buy the helicopters now. This is the project that Mario Kunasek also started during his ministerial activity. However, much more positive I see the adaptation and expansion of the Black Hawk fleet – this is a heavy military device that can be used if you really need it. They have also put a heavy weight on the areas of terrorism and disaster protection. We also see this positively, which corresponds to our intentions, we also encourage you to continue working there. It is negative for me to note that we have experienced a dramatic loss of military capabilities through the various relief services that the Austrian Federal Army has had to perform in recent years, because the soldiers can no longer be sufficiently trained and therefore are more able to be used in the context of a real military crisis. Neither have they led it into the way that we are again beginning mandatory militias. They have, unfortunately, abolished these compulsory militias due to the intervention of the EIA, then under Minister Platter, against our will, against the will of the FPÖ. We are currently experiencing that the militia has to deal with a dramatic lack of personnel. If we take seriously the military principle provided for in the Constitution, we must take all steps to give the militia the opportunity to continue to increase human resources. So we have to get in the way of reintroducing a six-plus solution for all basic service providers. The beginning of this would be that we can voluntarily report this six-plus-three solution, which now exists, after six months of ground defense service for a three-month mission, for example at the state border, link this message, which is also provided with a decent salary, with a military obligation. I would ask you to act in this direction and to have your experts in the ministry examine how we can implement it. We also do not see the surveillance of airspace in good development, Mrs. Minister. So far, the non-retirement of the 105s only makes it clear that the ÖVP and you as a minister call into question the active airspace surveillance and that the fleet of Eurofighters we currently have to deal with in this area is threatened by various political considerations of your party. I would ask you to take active airspace surveillance and ensuring it. It is an essential part of a sovereign state, and I believe that Austria has done well to ensure that we have been able to enforce our interests in these areas so far. I see the reform of the central office that you started as very critical. I see in this a basically civil structure, which will give us a broad range of leadership with a high degree of coordination. I assume that in the coming year you will also have reform efforts with regard to the current breakdown and the solutions adopted. They also mention the administration of Covid camps, which has now been transferred to the Austrian federal army. We see this very critically. I would ask you, Mrs Minister, to reject all these civilian tasks which are assigned to the Federal Government for a longer period of time as fundamental tasks. The Austrian federal army is not here for this. The attitude of Covid camps is a matter of the Ministry of Health. This has to coordinate and manage these areas. Only when the Ministry of Health is no longer in a position to do so can the Austrian Federal Army, with its resources – which it has – be available to master the situation. The dramatic investment stock must continue to be reduced. I agree, however, that you cannot, of course, clean up what has been missed in decades – I think it is good for you. I would, however, like to encourage you to work in relation to the Minister for Finance. It is nothing new if we find that the Turks are not only in the wind, but have actually landed on the storage track. With you, Mrs Minister, I assume that you are a good black from Lower Austria, and that is why I urge you to act in the budgetary negotiations, that the Minister of Finance, who is a designated Turkish, at last meets you, so that you can finally release the budget resources that we need. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] The Federal Army, ladies and gentlemen, must be able to fulfil its constitutional mission, and that is the military defence of the country. Whoever controls this defence can also help if the other structures, the civil structures, no longer proceed, namely with heavy equipment and also with sufficient personnel, and this applies to all of us, especially to you, Mrs Minister. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[12:34]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e36852	Mr Robert Laimerzu, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a point of order. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e36879	In the speech of Deputies Ofenauer, reference is made to the modification of the Black Hawks and to federal ministers from the past. In this way, the Federal Minister for Social Democracy will be represented in a suggestive way. made responsible – also a tweet of the minister-general Bauer, who aggressively attacks the public Federal Minister other than the Klug service. The right thing is: The special investment - -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e36902	Mr President, you have to go ahead with the so-called fact-finding claim of Mr Ofenauer and then correct it.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e36935	The claim was: S & D ministers were responsible for the modification of the Black Hawks. The right thing is: Special investment programme 2016, allocation of funds as early as 2015 with ministerial allocation, which includes among other things: the modification of the Black Hawk transport helicopters with the volume of 80 million euros. The decision to upgrade was made in 2015, i.e. six years ago. The upgrade has not been completed until today. Why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e36971	Well, before I now give the floor to Mr Stögmüller, I am still aware that the motion for a resolution, which was read at the beginning of your speech, Mr Bösch, has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Mr Stögmüller, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e36996	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to go into the great regrets of old governments and the Federal Government: What if? How much could you have achieved? What couldn't have done? On the one hand, I am pleased that you – and you have to congratulate – have managed to add a plus to the federal army once more, to increase the budget. I think it is a hard-working commitment to your side, to your cabinet and to your entire house, as well as to the good work of the Federal Government, that this budget increase has come about. So congratulations from our side for it. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the ÖVP.]] - Yes, I think you can clap. During the pandemic, the German army has done a lot of assistance and support – also thanks to all soldiers for their work. But there was not only the pandemic to fight: For example, the Federal Army was also in use in the context of forest fires like just on the Rax – you will certainly also address them. It is also necessary to give special thanks to the German army or the soldiers. There is good cooperation between civil organizations, the Blue Light organizations – the rescue forces – and the German army, which are very well-suited to such situations. Now we have a higher budget for 2022. We had an increased budget last year. It is important to use this money wisely. I am pleased that, with the increase in the budget, we can now make positive changes towards a modern army. We've already started that, last year. One of the priorities was to attract the ground defense service. We want to achieve that the ground defense service – this is a business card, a trademark of the federal army, the first contact of the people with it – is made useful. That's what it's like. The young boys who are forced and committed to this service, in my opinion and in our opinion, deserve to have a solid education that is being pursued in a meaningful way. In addition to a little more money for the meals, we have also decided together to send fewer ground defense servants – I hope at some point no more at all – for assistance to the border. We did this together, also with the six-plus-three model. This is the model that the colleague criticized. I think it's a very good model, I think that's also going in the right direction. With this model, ground defense workers can voluntarily extend their service by three months after six months, when they report for this purpose. I think this solution is great, because we have been able, first of all, to send people voluntarily to the border and to assistance, and secondly, to offer these people an option to pursue a meaningful activity, for example as a transitional solution until the start of the study. Better equipment: There has been just as important progress. It should always be our credo: more money for the troop!, especially when it comes to restructuring in the ministry. There will be a new structure in the central office, which you have proposed, which of course we will observe in Parliament in the committees. I hope that there will really be simplification and unbundling of the structures in the central bodies. I believe that this needs and is also urgently necessary if we look at these old and slowly growing structures in this ministry. We need a modern, powerful federal army, especially with regard to the new threats such as cyber-attacks. I recall the cyber-attacks of 2019 to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mrs. Minister, who probably came from Russia and fortunately without major sustainable damage – some of which we will still find out – could be prevented for Austria's infrastructure. The Austrian Federal Army is to be and must also be seen as a security service provider in the face of massive challenges and extreme situations and continuously expand this position. There is a strong federal army that can be used in crises of all kinds, including pandemics, blackouts or environmental disasters. Next year, the crisis security law will be passed – I will be able to respond very briefly. We will thus create a redefinition of crises, away from just looking at the security aspect, to the consideration of social aspects, environmental aspects, economic disasters. We have already held the first good talks with the security speakers here in the house, and I believe that we will reach an agreement there, a good agreement in the sense of the security of Austria. The German army is expected to be able to take advantage of individual disaster scenarios by means of assistance interventions in the future. I believe that this is important and necessary for modern crisis management, especially when it comes to the supply of system-related goods, in particular medical and medical goods. I am convinced that this law will make an essential contribution to Austria's resilience and to improving the capacity to fight and crisis management. We have also launched important projects in the field of the ecologisation of the German army and we will still get on track. This concerns the renovation of barracks, which we have already discussed, the expansion of autarchic barracks, which also plays an important and important role. There are also pilot projects: How can the federal army become even more ecological? I think there are Many research initiatives, including the Federal Army and the Ministry of State Defense itself. One point that is also important to me – you know, Mrs Minister; I am constantly addressing it in the committees – that is the food. You have inherited something with Cook & Chill – that's what I call it when we talk about former governments: inherited – what we as greens don't necessarily find optimal, I say it that way. In this process, food is cooked in a large kitchen by a food group and then only finished in the barracks, that is, spent on the soldiers. It is often a very heavy food, as we have often had enough experience in the Federal Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs. We believe that our soldiers have really deserved fresh, regional and healthy food. In addition, the first steps have already been taken by you; I think we are on the right path, that is not going from one day to the other, but step by step we will also achieve this goal. Once again, congratulations on the increase in the budget. Thanks to you, your team, the Secretary-General, the entire General Staff, the civilians in the ministry and, of course, all soldiers for their commitment to our society, for our Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e37081	Next speaker: Mr Helmut Brandstätter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e37102	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Thank you to the soldiers, of course, I like to join – thank you very much – but I already have bigger problems with the budget. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and with representatives of SPÖ and Greens]] I would like to talk about what is not in the budget. I'd like to know: What is actually being spent, what are aircraft, perhaps also for maintenance? We don't know. I asked the representative of the budget service within the Committee why there is nothing in it. That's what they told me, well, that's hard to understand. What does it mean to be comprehensible? – That means it's opaque! That is why I brought you a special book today, I printed it out the budget of the army and the military services of the United States, and I will give it to you. [[keeping an up-to-date expression of the “Defense Budget Overview 2021”]] What's really fascinating, and I confess I didn't know it either: You can read every detail of the American defense and the American military budget. That's exactly where it's inside: Positions for weapons, salary increases, participation in international partnerships, military medicine, accommodation. There is inside, how many tanks are currently operational, which are not, which are repaired. That is, the American army, which has an essential task – we are probably in agreement – and has a lot more money than our federal army, the parliament learns what is done with the money – now it is possible to say that parliamentarianism in America is a little older and is a little further than with us. We need to have some numbers, with some names, which we do not know in detail. What about airspace surveillance? What about the drones? We read, there are depreciations and expenses – it can't be nice. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Thank you. The next point: What's the very big construction site? – The construction site is, of course, the institutionalisation of our foreign policy, but it is also our external borders. Where are the borders of Austria? They are not in the Burgenland, but they are the external borders of the European Union, and we have to consider how we can protect them. Much of what may appear to be a danger in Austria may not be able to defend us in Austria, but only jointly within the framework of the European Union. I looked at something, I did not know it, but I can only recommend it to all those who are interested in European defence. [[Keeping an expression in height]] [[Call the SPÖ: You can't read that!]] You can't read this here, I know, you can't read it in detail. This looks like a subway plan, at first glance it is confusing like some subway plans, but at second glance it is interesting because the various efforts in the areas of security and defence can be read in the framework of the European Union. There is, of course, also Pesco, there are activities that we are involved in, and that is why it makes sense to look at them. It is from EUISS, the European Institute for Security Studies. I would really recommend everyone to look at that. You can already see that we can do something, but then we have to do it. We are always talking about European security policy, but I do not feel that we are participating. Austria alone can't do it either. The idea that we could equip ourselves with the necessary modern military technology is of course absurd, so it can only be a European defence within the framework of Europe. Whatever we need in the future is strategic access to the budget, which gives us the risk picture, the risk picture also of our federal army, embedded in a European security system, and ultimately it is also about control, the question: Can we control what is planned? After all that we see in our budget, and if we look at it as a comparison, we have to say unfortunately that we cannot control it because you do not tell us, but maybe it will work next year. [[Keeping the expression of the “Defense Budget Overview 2021” in height]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e37167	Mrs. Claudia Tanner has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e37188	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! And especially on today's day: Dear Soldiers and ladies and gentlemen, civilians of my department! In addition to the perception of the state defense, the Austrian Federal Army is the strategic reserve of the Republic, and not only today, this shows our soldiers as never before. – Therefore, at this point a very great thank you to all those who are in use, in the use of numerous assistant missions, in support to health authorities in the fight against the corona pandemic. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and MEPs from Greens and NEOS]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the times and the geopolitical situation are changing, the tasks and the deployments are becoming increasingly diverse and they are becoming more and more. There is no doubt a need to catch up in the Austrian federal army due to numerous failures in the past decades. Yes, it is really a lot to pick up, and also the chief commander of the Austrian federal army, Federal President Alexander Van der Bellen, does not tire of pointing out in his speeches how urgently the German army needs a budgetary increase. We are therefore in the middle of a well-important process of change, and the budget plays an extremely important role, because one is a fact: The security situation in Europe will probably not improve in the coming years, in order not to say it will worsen. That is to say, the challenges we face will rise, which shows us the risk picture for the next few years. If we look at this, we know at least one: We know quite well what we need to prepare for, we know what is happening to us, what can happen to us. These are challenges, scenarios of the 21st century. For centuries, such as terrorism, cyber-attacks, blackouts, pandemics, natural disasters with their consequences and the then necessary efforts of the federal army, we have experienced this enough in recent years and decades, and it is likely that climate change will continue to increase. Ladies and gentlemen, we have – unfortunately – had a recent example: In recent weeks, the German army has been in constant use against the forest fire in the Rax area. Two Blackhawks, two Agusta-Bell 212, one Alouette III and one Pilate PC-6 of the Federal Army, together with helicopters from the Ministry of Interior, helicopters from the German Bundeswehr and Slovakia, as well as two extinguishing aircraft from Italy, have supported the forces in the fight against this largest forest fire in recent years. Our air forces alone, those of the Austrian federal army, have thrown more than 4 million liters of water over the fire. – At this point a very great thank you to all the forces! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] I was not only once, but several times with our head of state Johanna Mikl- Leitner and with her deputy Stephan Pernkopf on site in the Rax area. We have taken a picture of the situation and the situation of the forces. We were able to see how the cooperation between our federal army, the international forces and civil intervention organisations was going on – truly impeccable. Our soldiers, together with fire brigade, police and the forces in the aircraft from our neighbouring countries, have been with incredible professionalism and great commitment to eradicating the Glutnester and Flames. So much of the risks and dangers that the pandemic presents to us: We probably couldn't have imagined that a few years ago, and yet it happened. A terrorist attack, as he took place in the middle of Vienna, a nightmare – it has also happened. And who would have thought that we should prepare for blackout scenarios? All our security experts tell us it's going to happen within the next five years, it's a realistic scenario: A Europe-wide supply failure of the electricity infrastructure is possible. Then there is no light, then there is no mobile phone, no internet, no functioning banknotes, no heating, no gas stations, no trams. For us, for the Austrian federal army, it is in such a case that we must support the leadership of the Republic, that in the event of disaster we must also be the other intervention organisations strategic reserve. Again a short time back to the corona pandemic: We have seen what this means for the German forces’ use – has meant and will still mean –. Since March the previous year, on average, nearly 1,000 soldiers and civilians each day have been involved in assistance and support to the health authorities in the use of Corona. On top days, a total of 8,000 people were domestically and abroad, on the border. We even had to take over the management of a nursing home in the short term with our medical forces, as no one else could do so at this time. We are now back to the point that these assistance requirements are in the room. This year alone, a total of 7 980 soldiers are working as part of security police assistants, which are, ladies and gentlemen, 319 200 working days alone in this year. We are now again being used: We are used for entry controls and contact tracking, we operate the vaccination centre in Nenzing in Vorarlberg. At the moment, there are about 600 soldiers who are needed to support health authorities. In addition, there are 1 200 soldiers who stand on the border because of the increasing migration pressure in the assistance deployment. In addition, our foreign missions in 14 missions with currently 800 soldiers and the standard tasks must also be carried out. It is unimaginable what our soldiers and civilians do. And all this, ladies and gentlemen, must be financed. That is why I am really pleased that, if you decide, for the third time we will achieve the highest defence budget in history. Ladies and gentlemen, over the years, the Austrian army has not been given the appropriate priority, but it has not been given to it in budgetary terms the importance it deserves. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] This long-standing setback has an end, and in this respect we can look positively into the future, because it is necessary that we create a modern, actionable federal army that presents the challenges and scenarios of the 21st century. ==References====External links== [[We welcome the ÖVP and Mr Rössler and Mr Stögmüller.]] The Federal Army's defense budget for the coming year now amounts to EUR 2 713.1 million. This corresponds to a budget increase of 40 million euros compared to the previous year. The increase compared to the previous year is due in particular to the position of the European Peace Facility, established as a follow-up to the Athena mechanism for measures of the Common Security Policy in the European Union. The responsibility for the European Peace Facility goes with 1. January 2022 from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Ministry of Defence to contribute to the effective prevention of conflict, to the promotion of peace and to the strengthening of international security. I can also say at this point: Our commitment to the missions is unbelievably appreciated. I am coming from the military ministerial meeting in Jumbo format with the Foreign Ministers, and again and again the special professionalism of our soldiers in foreign missions is emphasized and appreciated – also at this point a great thank you to the comrades! [[I should like to thank Mr Brandstätter and Mr Künsberg Sarre.]] In addition, there is an estimate of EUR 20 million for 2022 Covid-19 budgets. These funds are available without exception for relevant expenditure in the fight against pandemics. The high level of over EUR 2.7 billion will also be able to be held for the next few years, although the investment will fall by 8.9 percent at this point. This is due to the atypical procurement operations in our department. The value of EUR 428.8 million is nevertheless the second highest after 2021. That is, it is a doubling compared to 2019 and is also slightly above the actual success of 2020. This means that the share of investments in total payments is really high at 15.81 percent. A continuation of the successive and – I say again here – absolutely necessary reduction of investment in the German army is thus possible. Despite all the assistance requirements, efforts and support we must not forget about our original national defence tasks. [[Abg. Bösch: Thank you.]] It's actually a true, good saying: Whoever can defend, he can also help. [[Abg. Cashier: That's it!]] Whoever can only help, can't defend it. – Therefore, it must always be our claim to put Austria as a neutral country in the heart of Europe adequately on stable legs. [[Abg. Kassinger:... Helicopter!]] That means that we are also in The area must continue to invest in order to obtain the necessary military core competences and capabilities. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] At the same time, we need to take precautions to make our federal army more autonomous and crisis-resistant in sub-areas, especially in barracks operations. In general, through many new procurements – starting from mobility via equipment, via equipment – and also through the production of autarchy in 100 relevant military properties in the areas of electrical energy supply, heat supply, water supply, operating equipment supply and so on, we are also making the German army a modern army. The whole Autarchy military infrastructure project has already been largely implemented, and in 2022, a budget requirement of around 22 million euros is generated. We are also on schedule when purchasing the 18 Leonardo AW169M helicopters with a total cost of 300 million euros. The first helicopters will be delivered by the end of next year; the rest will come in 2023. They will replace our long-lived Alouette III helicopters, and how important these ready-to-use helicopters are, especially in the last few weeks, in the fire of the forest in Hirschwang. I would like to focus briefly on the special financing packages we have received. Special investment funds of 190 million euros are available for 2022, 640 million euros for 2021 to 2024. In other words, in the coming years, we will also invest in the areas of Covid-19 assistance, Miliz in general, Cybersecurity, ABC, Sanity, Terrorism and Civil Protection. I am speaking, ladies and gentlemen, of 400 million euros for the period from this year to 2024, which will be spent just for counter-terrorism, a disaster prevention package, a health package and an ABC package. In the field of disaster operations, we will acquire pioneer equipment. This begins with the pioneer machines and goes up to the vehicles and the other transport systems. The 200-million Euro Special Investment Military Package is on its way and brings a lot of improvements in the areas of equipment, management support, armament and, above all, mobility. I also believe that with the model My Service for Austria, we have succeeded in creating an attractive professional offer for our young soldiers. A voluntary premium of approximately 400 euros per month from the third month of training will be provided for a voluntary report on military exercises during the ground military service, and a framework training premium of around 200 euros will also be available. Why do we do all of this? Why do we offer all of this to the ground defense service? – Because this is the basis for everything, we must never forget that! Our basic defense servants are the basis for the cadre soldiers, but also for the militia. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, it is also a great concern for me to make the military profession more attractive for women, to further increase the proportion of women in the German army, to make available the resources required in my department and to promote women in leadership positions. It's the same thing as before: We've achieved a lot. We're on the right track, but there's an incredible amount that's still to be done. We have almost 3,000 women in the department, which is 13 percent of all staff. About 700 of them are soldiers, the remaining women are civilians. That is, the proportion of uniforms, the soldier is 4 percent – we cannot satisfy that. We are still very far from the target, and I have therefore arranged an updated version of the Women's Promotion Plan last year with very specific measures and also key figures. We also rely – I hope that some of you have already noticed – on increased staff advertising. We have three specific programs in the section: the soldier's mentoring, regular graduates' meetings, networking meetings and the cross-menoring with other ministries. There is a lot to do in this area. We also have our own directive, which sets out in concrete terms the obligation of all employees to be equal. One thing is clear, ladies and gentlemen: To be a soldier is a profession like no other – diverse, interesting, but without a doubt challenging. But what is also important and what we might need to emphasize sometime more: There is the same salary for the same performance, there are incredibly many career opportunities and career opportunities with us, the Austrian federal army. Ladies and gentlemen! An investment in the German army, which is always an investment in security – in the security of Austria. And security also costs money, which is not at zero rate, and I am really pleased – I hope with you – that the achievements of the Austrian federal army are appreciated, that the budgetary needs are also recognised and recognised, and that we have every day the opportunity to convince the Austrians that the German army is our security guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e37292	Mr Johann Höfinger has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e37316	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As a long-standing member of the National Defence Committee, it is very pleased that the national defence itself has become more focused again, both here in Parliament in the value and outside of people in recognition. Of course, this concerns, in essence, the military defence of the country with all its tasks and obligations and many positions around it, and you, Mrs. Federal Minister, have now also outlined very well what the overall tasks of the Austrian federal army are. These tasks have also developed and expanded enormously in recent years. The special feature of this is the following: You have now explained how much you are trying to accomplish all these tasks, and just as we know how many Soldiers and civil servants at various levels are trying to be prepared and prepared for all these challenges. I have heard the debate before and have also heard much praise from the representatives of the opposition parties. . I now take care of Mr Laimer's winery speech, which would have the least need to be distributed here, because I have been in the National Defence Committee for many years, and it was the SPÖ who wanted to abolish the military duty. Within the SPÖ-ÖVP coalition, we have repeatedly struggled with Darabos, with cleverness, if it had been about increases. Ministers didn't want them at all! They wanted to save, they wanted to narrow down, they wanted to sell equipment and so on. I therefore ask that the SPÖ do not now stand up here as a great defender of the state defense. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Brandstätter referred in his speech more to how things are written down than to the budget itself. I say: Yes, as it is written down, we can change; important is that we can write a lot. The Federal Minister has provided this and I am very grateful to her for it. You, Mrs. Minister, have a large part of what has been missed by ministers in recent years, and you do the hand with the force. They do not hesitate to take decisions which have also been artificially created, but which are no longer necessary in the present time, in order to be able to implement decisions quickly in order to keep the command chain short. In this sense, therefore, I would like to thank you very much for this commitment in the direction of re-establishing military equipment for national defence, however we may need, but even if it is a matter of securing critical infrastructure, resisting threats or terrorist attacks, from cyber-attacks and similar to disaster protection. Thank you very much for your commitment to the inside, but also to the outside, when it comes to taking the people along on this issue! You do this, too, and we notice a movement that allows us to bring the Federal Army forward together again. I thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e37370	Mrs Petra Wimmer has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e37395	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! They have described in great detail the tasks for which the German army is responsible, especially in crises, in the event of storms, in the event of emergencies. Even in the fire disaster, the German army was simply there and ready to use and performed very important tasks for our society. So basic soldiers, soldiers and soldiers are always used when assistance is needed in a large style, and I would also like to take the opportunity for my group to say a thank you from this point of view: a thank to all those who have carried out their basic military service, who have just led him, a thank to all the soldiers who always serve them where we as a society need them! [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Disoski]] Without them, nothing would be possible. Ladies and gentlemen! In a global health crisis, of course, the German army is also focusing on many Austrians as employers, but also on Austrian women – you mentioned it first, the women in the German army are still a very small group. Of course, many factors are necessary to make work in the Federal Army more attractive for women. In addition to the compatibility of family and profession – which is of course also a big topic for many men, but for women it is even more important, it simply plays a big role – they are also ascent opportunities – they have also been addressed – very important. It is necessary to make the career of the soldier attractive to women, so women must also be motivated to go to the federal army. Despite the efforts of you, Mrs. Federal Minister, whom we also see, there is still further potential for improvement, as you have to see when you look at the share of women in the Austrian Federal Army, and of course especially in the management positions. In order for the basic defence servants and all the employees of the state defense to be able to perform their service well, in addition to other conditions, the corresponding accommodation, functional equipment and, of course, the associated investments need to be provided. It is only possible to ensure quick use if the buildings are well equipped and if the necessary equipment is also in good condition. Of course, it is also important to us in the regions that the locations of the military facilities are preserved. Of course, the location of the Hesse barracks in Wels is particularly important to me. For the regions, these sites are also important as security islands for emergencies – they are increasing in importance – so that, in the case of blackouts, the population is sure that their emergency services are provided via the barracks. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! The autarchy of the barracks is a key to the security of the population. However, for rapid mobilization in the event of an emergency, the barracks do not need lip confessions, but actual investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e37446	Magnificence comes to the fore. Maria Smodics-Neumann. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e37470	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Wimmer von der SPÖ, I am incredibly grateful to you for your statements, which you have just made here, because it has shaken me a little bit, what your colleague Laimer said – even if he perhaps did not want to express it, but it has sounded that way. Dear Soldiers, I believe we are all aware that there are tasks in which you stand at the front and are visible, and that there are tasks in the assistance performance, which you do not see, but which are at least as important. I think most of us make no difference in thanking for everything you do – in front of the curtain, but also behind it. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Schalmein and Mr Scharak on his work.]] 2.71 billion euros are budgeted for military matters, and I would like to make a few important points from my personal point of view, such as: 210 million euros for maintenance and new buildings or 173 million euros in investments in equipment, whether clothing or aircraft, whether it be armored vehicles and so on – all things that ensure that Austria's resilience can be built up in a serious case. Today – and this is also particularly important to me – the 100 barracks to be autarchized by 2025, with twelve of which to become a security island, have often been mentioned. protecting the critical infrastructure and, of course, the continuation of the anti-terrorism and crisis protection package. But all of this does not help – and the Federal Minister mentioned it too – if we have too few soldiers. That is why I would also like to thank you for the effort, the renewed and repeated effort to increase the attractiveness of the Federal Government, so to speak, with the aim that we will have more women in leadership. An important part is also the means for the Army History Museum – for there is the possibility not only to present the history of the Austrian federal army, but also to present today's federal army for the population – in addition to those for the Parliamentary Federal Army Commission and also the military care which are very important for the daily work of the federal soldiers and soldiers. Thank you for your commitment, Mrs. Federal Minister, and for your soldiers!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e37522	The next speaker is Mr Ing. May. Volker Tireberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e37546	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! I really can't hear it anymore: Come every year You're here in the budget debate with a supposed success news that you're supposed to have negotiated a record budget for our federal army. This alleged record budget, however, is not even sufficient for a proper burial of our national defence. If you are subject to the budget of a minimal increase, but with which you do not even cover inflation, then this may be a nominal increase, but if you take the purchasing power into account accordingly, it is a further reduction of a budget already far too low. If you do not believe this, please ask Mr Taschner, he will explain it to you. We have a huge investment delay in the German army, you know that very well. We really need a budget almost twice as high as the current one, plus special funding for urgently needed major procurement operations. Their predecessors and the general staff have shown this clearly and plausibly over two years ago. So there is much too little money, and our army, in the sense of the turquoise defense doctrine, is coming to an easily armed technical aid agency. But money isn't all: The ÖVP also enters our federal constitution with feet, not only in the corona measures that the VfGH – late, but still – takes up in sequence. In our federal constitution, I quote: "The federal government is responsible for the military state defense. It must be set up according to the principles of a military system.” – However, we do not even have on the paper, not even to mention the reality, a military based on Swiss model, which the constitutional legislator of his time had in mind. There is no military force based on purely voluntaryness as at the moment. This can't work, no matter what incentives you set. Therefore, you would have to correct the original sin of your predecessor and party colleague Günther Platter and reintroduce mandatory military exercises. But you lack political will and courage – and talk. Please do not rely on your green coalition partner, because we liberals have to experience your negative attitude to defend the country as a former coalition partner. Therefore, almost traditionally, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am pleased that the Socialists have also agreed to this request last year. It seems that there has also been some rethinking there, and I hope that they will again vote in favour of this request. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[13:18]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e37658	The application is properly filed and is therefore also under negotiation. Ing. Manfred Hofinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e37686	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the investment in the German army, these are investments in the security of Austria, these are investments to protect our population from threats and disasters, whether this concerns military matters – as is the core competence of the German army – or also environmental disasters, as we have now had them in the form of forest fires, or also the pandemic that is still keeping us under control. It is therefore important to us that we – and I congratulate the Federal Minister for this – have been able to increase the budget massively over the past three years and now stand at a record budget of 2.7 billion euros. It may be more and more, of course, that is clear, but we owe you these increases, Mrs Federal Minister. They are an essential and important step in the future of a modern and attractive federal army. Of course, an important step is to invest in logistics, infrastructure and, of course, in the organization. In particular, through the central organisation reform, it is achieved that we have more staff and money directly at the team. In the same way, investment in mobility is also a very important point – helicopters, trucks and trucks are purchased – as are investment in the infrastructure – these bring more for our soldiers and the Autarchy – to a total of more than 105 million euros. This is the government's response to the changed threat scenarios that we have: the hybrid threats, but also the corona situation. We really invest a lot in the federal army. In my opinion, however, it is also quite, very important that the federal army is attractive to the young people, whether girls or boys. It is therefore all the more important that we invest in the fields of training. Young people must also feel that they benefit from it. Therefore, this project, in which the German army increasingly cooperates with the economy and creates an added value for the people, is so important to me. The food, regional cuisine, is also to be highlighted. What I am particularly pleased about is the investment in the infrastructure, because of course it motivates the troops, and above all because it is also invested in the tenies of my home district Ried in the inner circle. The soldiers there do a very, very good job and are well managed, but the investment in the renovation is essential and a very, very essential point. On the one hand, the renovation is, of course, an important economic and labour market factor in our region, and on the other hand, the Ten's barracks are becoming increasingly important for border protection. That is why I would like to thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, and the General Staff for the efforts in this area, for the overall budget and for the good cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e37728	MMMag is speaking. Dr. Axel Kassinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e37752	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Yes, we have now heard some of you, from the Austrian People's Party – time and again –: It is clear to me that what you have to defend in this budget is beautiful and beautiful, everything else would be surprising, but that is to a large extent what you are doing here – I must tell you in this directness – as the politics of the Austrian People's Party, as far as the German army is concerned, has already had high show components in the sense of lack of credibility over the past years and decades. If you mention that we have a need to catch up with the federal army, that is, of course, completely correct. If you're talking about the failure in recent years – in recent decades, you've even said – you're big, of course you're right. That's where I ask you: In recent years, who have been the ministers mainly or to an unimportant part? – It was of course also ministers of social democracy, but also of the ÖVP. So there's a lack of credibility. The division, the federal army now has the biggest budget of all time, is true, but I would like to bring an example of the relations to a close. As we know, NATO's proposed defence budget is 2% of GDP, and this two-percent target has already been achieved by many Member States. These 2% – and this is what Nato says, which probably has some idea of military things, including military national defence – are absolutely necessary to be able to speak of military at all. Col. Reifenberger has already said it: We're talking about a military with the constitutional one. Order of the military state defense. This requires, for example, heavy weapons and, of course, military personnel. – I tell you quite honestly: Nothing of this is available in the Austrian federal army. You probably don't seriously believe that with a tank battalion, two functional Eurofighters and three Black Hawks, we can meet the task of military defence. – You can’t seriously believe that! That's why you're making a good show and saying that the federal army is doing this and that: packages pack, reception committee at the airport, security islands et cetera. 2 percent – let us now take a budget: A budget average income in Austria is 29 000 euros per year, which is 2 100 euros per month. That's what we're saying, you can sort of get out. That would now be the NATO budget of 2%. The budget of the Austrian federal army is 0.6 percent of GDP. This would be 630 euros of household income per month. With 630 euros no one can get out, no one can carry out his duties, no one can live a life with regard to the example of household. So no army can carry out its military tasks. Now, of course, you're saying: We raised the budget! – To stick to this example: You would have increased the household income from 630 euros by 1.4 percent to 638.82 euros. Here we are now. That's the highest budget of all time, that's right – but 638,82 euros, that's not even the minimum security. So what are you talking about? – We are below the minimum level of security, and of course you will not be able to save the federal army under-financed for years with a budget equivalent to EUR 638.82 per month. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] Of course. You cannot recover the massive return on investment with these amounts. 100 million euros, that sounds a lot, but these are mickey amounts compared to what would be needed to recover the investment. Of course, you will continue to silverise barracks and properties. The Miliz has already mentioned Mr Reifenberger: We have a constitutional obligation to do so. Her predecessor, Minister Platter, has eliminated the Miliz de facto by abolishing the model six plus two, which has been exposed for two months. It tells you the house mind that a militia can only work if there are mandatory exercises. That's what you, the ÖVP, abolished 15 years ago and now you're talking about attraction. It would be quite easy: Bring in six plus two again, as we have been demanding liberals for years and decades, and then we can talk about a militia that can work in some way. - That's not gonna work. To the appreciation of our soldiers in the ground military service: This is a third of the minimum guarantee – once again: a third of the minimum guarantee, we are talking about such amounts. That is too little appreciation for us. That is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution to increase this amount to at least EUR 949. [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be a minimum appreciation for our military staff. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In conclusion: This is all beautiful and well done, Mrs. Federal Minister. Your presentation today was very, very well done, for 17 minutes, you also brought in a little Lower Austrian election campaign with the example. That's all nice and good, but that's not the point of the federal army. The line of the ÖVP is clear: As far as I can remember, the last Federal Ministers of the ÖVP, to whom the army was still concerned in the sense of military defence, were Federal Minister Lichal and Federal Minister Fassleven. Since then – and there you have to be so sincere and tell the people – the Austrian People's Party, especially the turquoise group within the People's Party, is nothing about a army capable of taking over its task of military defence – for if it were yours, you wouldn't equip this army with such ridiculous resources as you do. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[13:29]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e37901	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. There are no more words available to me now. The discussions on this subject have thus ended. [[13:29:27]] UG 11: Internals UG 18: Tourism
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e37937	We are now entering the UG 11: Inside, as well as to the UG 18: aliens. A joint debate is taking place on this matter. I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior. This is what Mr Ing has to say. Reinhold Einwallner. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e37964	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Let me express my thanks to the debate on internal division, namely the police who are in use every day for security in Austria and for the safety of the population in Austria, under really not easy conditions. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and NEOS.]] Mr Federal Minister, I also have to say, as an opposition politician: There are likely to be subdivisions which require more criticism than the budget in the areas of home and tourism, because there has been a general increase in financial resources and the funds have grown well over the last few years. The crucial question, however, is not only the budget level, but also the set of priorities that one makes in a budget and in a ministry. In the last few weeks, we have experienced where and how to set your priorities. Not only do you announce a major organisational structural reform – many of course suspect that it is similar to the last organisational structural reforms, that there is more or less just a recoloration in the ministry and that some good Turkish partygoers now have a function in the ministry – they regularly overwhelm the police with activities for which they are not trained, for which they are not actually present, and for which, if they take it exactly, they have no time, because they should take care of crime and not about controlling the 2G – as now. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Ries.]] But let us look at another area, namely the area of infrastructure: What are the working conditions found by executive officials? There is again the question: What priorities do you set and how? In recent weeks they have gone out with the idea of building a bunker on the fourth floor of the Ministry of Interior, which will cost around 30 million euros. I don't think this is the first priority when it comes to infrastructure in your ministry. I admit, it needs a living room, it probably needs a technically well equipped location, but it doesn't need a bunker and it needs Your bunker fantasies are not – not even before we have passed a law here at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Rather, it needs a good infrastructure, good working conditions for the local police. There is still enough work to do in the police inspections and also much to invest until it is really the case that the infrastructure and working conditions are good. Finally, a point which is of course very important, the fight against terrorism: Yes, it is right and good that in the area of equipment we have provided more resources for the police when it comes to combating terrorism, but that is not enough, because in the consideration of the 2nd. November we've seen what's missing. It's actually missing from three cs, you can say: There is no cooperation, there is no communication and there is no coordination when it comes to combating terrorism. We have put forward a proposal which unfortunately does not find itself in the budget: a counter-terrorism centre. It would be high time there was an interface at which the information could really be exchanged and flowed, so that in the future we could be attacks like those we unfortunately did on the 2nd. November 2020 had to be able to prevent, as far as possible; it will never be possible to exclude it, but we have to see that we prevent it as far as possible. The money, the sum alone is not crucial, but the decisive thing about a budget is how to set priorities – and we believe that you have misplaced them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e38031	The next speaker is Mr Karl Mahrer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e38055	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! 3.25 billion euros – the second Republic's highest security budget. This is a clear commitment from this Federal Government. The security of people is a very essential concern for us. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I would also like to thank my colleagues, Mr Einwallner, for his basic words on the budget. I also believe that this budget is not only a thank you, but it is also a support for the 38 000 police officers, the security administration staff, who take care of our security every day and, of course, I would like to say a warm thank you here – even as security spokesperson of the People's Party. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] This budget, ladies and gentlemen, also ensures that we can provide 4 300 new employees to the police by the year 2024. It ensures the continuation of the training offensive and the equipment offensive, and there are still several very important milestones which we have can be implemented with this budget: There is once the first part of the anti-terrorism package, but there is also the recasting of the Constitutional Protection that we have agreed together. There is also the possibility now to ensure the expansion of rapid response forces for spontaneous deployments to a wide range of hazards in all the federal states, and there is important investment in cybersecurity and – you know, that is a special concern to me – also of the protection of violence in Austria. In addition to the actual nuclear budget for security, we will also decide on the budget for tourism – EUR 347 million. This means, among other things, financing the protection of our borders, but also supporting European external border protection and the Balkan countries in their actions. We create conditions for rule of law, rapid and efficient asylum procedures and also the possibility of repatriation for those who do not receive protection status. What's particularly important to me is: We are also investing in cooperation with third countries and in assistance in the regions of origin, because we will only be able to solve the problem if we prevent the causes of the escape. I would also like to thank the Minister for Finance, Mr Internal Minister, but I also thank all the taxpayers, because they enable this highest security budget of the Second Republic with their tax benefits. I would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen of all the political groups, to support this security budget, because it is a prerequisite for us to continue to live in one of the safest countries in the world. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say a personal word: Everyone who knows me knows that in politics commonness is a special concern – commonness, which, at the very last, has often gone down here in the House. A man who has always put the common but always over the parting was the Social Democratic Otto Pendl. His death on the 10th. November has made me, has made us all very affected. He was one of my predecessors in the Committee on the Interior. I'm just asking you to be human: Let us keep in mind and live a little bit of his legacy, namely to put the commonplace before the parting, despite all the discourse. Otto Pendl, I will never forget you and your efforts to be together!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e38122	Next speaker is Mag. Hannes Amesbauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e38144	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In the UG 11: Inside, there is indeed a clear plus, which is a gratifying increase, and that is quite a respectable result. However, I would now like to deal with division 18, which is also covered by Mr Nehammer. For the year 2022, a sum of €347.4 million is estimated. This is an increase of 32,5 million euros compared to 2021, ladies and gentlemen. We must also consider the cost of the Ministry of the Interior, which is above all the means of basic care for asylum seekers and for the first instance asylum procedures. All other costs in the field of asylum are elsewhere. That's a sum that's a lot higher. All the appeal procedures, the second instance, that is a cost point, the case of the judicial system. As soon as the asylum seekers are entitled to asylum, the minimum guarantee is immediately, from the first day, in the minimum guarantee, without having worked a single day in Austria without paying a cent tax, lies with the federal states. We have costs in health, education and so on and so on – so the costs in the asylum sector are enormous, ladies and gentlemen. But we have not only a cost problem, but also a security problem. We know that we are also importing criminals, including murderers, rapists, and not too few Islamists, ladies and gentlemen, with the numerous migrants who are illegally moving into the country. Austria alone has 45 000 Afghans in the country. This is the highest share of the population in the EU and the third largest share in the world. The main problem, of course, is immigration, mass immigration, and border protection, which still does not work in this country. And this is your political failure, Minister of the Interior. We have police and federal soldiers on the border who do good work, but they are unfortunately a reception committee. As soon as the rule of asylum seekers and illegal migrants, who commit a crime in the face of illegal border crossing, declare the magic word asylum, they are in the asylum system. Finally, we need effective border protection so that our police can also carry out meaningful activities, because they are increasingly frustrated, but you, Mr. Interior Minister, prefer the police forces to monitor and harass their own people. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] How proper border protection can work, this shows us at the hour of Poland. If you look at the videos alone from the morning, what's going on in Poland, where aggressive migrants are trying to storm the border to thousands, so that the Ministry of Defence in Poland is already literally talking about an attack by migrants, then you can see pictures that make an unworded: Migrants, illegal migrants, aggressively try to break through border barriers with tree trunks, using stones as litters. At least a police officer who defended the border is now seriously injured. We wish this Polish police officer every good and timely recovery from this point of view. Ladies and gentlemen, I say: Thank you Poland, thank you for defending Europe before this attack! These rulers do not want to stay in Poland, because they want to continue, mainly after Germany and Austria, where the social slaring country calls. However, Latvia and Lithuania are also affected by their external borders. Poland is now even thinking about building a wall – that will probably be necessary. The European Union must help. You, Mr Nehammer, have also announced help, and I hope you will also work at European level to ensure that this aid, including financial assistance, really comes. We need a paradigm change in the EU. European asylum and migration policy has failed. We must protect the external borders and finally we must say goodbye to the fundamental procedure, that everyone is allowed in and that we have an asylum procedure that will make it to the external border. Why should we even look at the protection status of someone who has come to us over several safe third countries in which he has long been in safety? The European Union must also not be blackmailed by a Mr Lukashenko or a Mr Erdoğan. We know that the Turkey-EU deal is also fragile, and Mr Erdoğan could at any time produce such pictures as we now see them on the border between Poland and Belarus, namely at his external borders with Greece and Bulgaria, ladies and gentlemen. And the role of Mr Erdoğan in the current conflict in Poland is very, very questionable, we also know, since aircraft from the half-state airline from Turkey land in Minsk several times a day. Ladies and gentlemen! The problem of immigration, the costs and the security problems can only be solved if we avoid illegal immigration as far as possible. In Austria, you are responsible, Minister of the Interior, and Austria, the government, is also responsible for finally moving the European Union to close the external borders. We need the fortress Europe, otherwise Europe will go down. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[13:45]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e38303	The motion for a resolution on subheadings 11 and 18 has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. It is now possible to speak. Georg Bürstmayr. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e38332	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Austria needs a good, well-trained and well-paid police, so one of my first sentences was my first speech here in this House, and that is still a key component of green security policy. Police not only have the task of protecting our human rights, they are also people who have rights: on decent working conditions, on respect from their service provider and not least on decent remuneration. And that's why it's good that there has been around 10 percent more resources for staffing in this area since 2019. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] It also takes this money to be able to recruit employees in sufficient numbers, so that police officers can rely on them on Wednesday to keep their plans for the weekend, that there is something similar to a planned family life at all, that they can continue their education and that they do not have to ride extra shifts again and again, because there is a lack of staff in the back and front. And, as I said, it takes this money for a decent reward for the people who contribute to security every day throughout the country, who literally walk there, from where everyone else runs away, and who protect us and our rights, no matter what view or origin we have. For these more than 30,000 executive officials, I am thinking of those who stand at 40 degrees in the shade or in the cold weather in front of the gates of the Hofburg in order to protect us in order to protect democracy. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Krisper.]] We can express our thanks by applause, but it also applies here: A applause pays no rent and no heating. The fact that the police alone cannot produce security is, however, just as a fundamental idea of green security policy as of that that this is not possible without police. This is reflected in the fact that Austria spends a good 3% of its budget on this area. You will still hear details in detail of the areas in which this budget is concerned with the protection of violence in which it is concerned. I would like to talk to you today about an amount of Tenths of this sum, out of the EUR 347 million for the so-called tourism sector. What is behind it, among other things, are not only the salaries for those officials who determine whether people who seek protection in Austria should also need and receive this protection, but also the means for these people to be properly accommodated, cared for and cared for during this time, which needs such a procedure – simply because they are people and not chess figures that are pushed down and down by dictators and despots. A human being is a human being and not a thing, not a figure of plastic or wood. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as Members of the NEOS.]] In the last few days, we have all had to watch quite unwittingly, as in the last few days. Border between Belarus and Poland not only men, but also women and children at temperatures around zero degrees on one side of Europe's last dictator are being abused as a means of printing and on the other hand the minimum standards of Union law and human rights will be avoided. My colleague Ewa Dziedzic, unlike you, Mr Amesbauer, took a personal picture of this situation a few days ago, and believe me, these are situations that we must never allow at our borders and even elsewhere in Austria. [[Complementary of the Abg. Neßler.]] For this, this abstract sum of 350 million euros, of 0.35 percent of the federal budget, stands for the commitment of this federal government to the fact that people are not things at all. You know, these are abstract numbers and terms – UG 11, inside: EUR 3.25 billion; UG 18, Foreign affairs: 347 million euros – but they represent very fundamental things: for our common commitment to the fundamental values of this republic, to democracy, to the right to security and to human dignity, and that should be worth it to us. - Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e38405	Mrs. Dr. Stephanie Krisperist is now the next speaker. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e38429	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen at home! In today's Austria, Franz Kafka would have been completely exhausted as to whether the many impressions were. First of all: The Ibiza Examining Committee would have been very demanding by making jokes and disturbing parliamentary control work by that party, which has increasingly become the focus of control. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Then: Corona and the measures needed by the Federal Government, however, are not possible because – abject reasons – dilettantism, egoism, electoral pay, red tape disturbs bureaucracy, and due to federalism. Now, even in the face of a simple challenge, it will be very kafkaesk, namely in the basic supply of asylum seekers in Austria, because it is once again a management failure – as with Corona. The budget service was at a budgetary risk in the case of basic provision of asylum seekers and asylum seekers, because, according to BMI, 1 700 persons in the Federal Service were considered as the basis for the budgeting in October. However, I received an overview shortly before the Committee on Budgets, which shows that, in fact, 4 500 persons are already accommodated in federal care at the beginning of November. The Minister confirmed this in the Committee, but the BMI mentioned the number of 1,700 – much less. Why don't you mention the valid figures for the budgeting of federal care here? What do these numbers mean? A really high rise? – In federal care, yes, but not at all, we are currently 29 000 people; that is 2 000 less than 2 years ago, 1 000 more than last year at that time. This means that these people are simply stuck in the bottleneck of federal care because they are not adequately divided into the countries in sufficient time. Even if one calculates a covid buffer of 15 to 20 percent, because the occupancy is not as close as possible, it will not be understandable what happens, namely that, whatever we hear for weeks, away from these figures, halls need to be locked up for the occupation and, most recently, that people have to sleep in gymnasiums. In view of these figures, to have to lock up halls that testifies to complete management failure. What's the failure? – It seems that the distribution key regarding federal care or the division between countries does not work for different reasons, but one should look at this, Mr Minister. There seems to be problems in not complying with the Article 15a B-VG agreement, the quota agreement with the countries. It would simply be necessary to take the countries into account. If the argument that I often hear from the country side is that the tags for the asylum seekers are too low, then one must valorize them and finally do something there. It should also be left out of politics, not to lock up quarters before elections. These are cowardly political games that should not be allowed. Speaking of Game: We are surprised that you, Minister of the Interior, did not want to make any profit from the symptom of this management failure – images of people in halls – in order to ventilate the horror of the migration crisis; but perhaps in the meantime you also fear in the turquoise spheres that people will then slowly ask themselves more and more why suddenly again so many – that would insinuate these images – are in trais churches and similar facilities. Isn't the Balkan Route closed? You can't completely close borders. Is the Minister of the Interior overwhelmed because he did not see this coming, just as the government generally did not see the fourth corona wave coming? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] To say that it is unbearable to many people who come to us, it will not be so good now, so you would rather be silent, you prefer to be silent. But if you make it clear what things are, it's like this: The figures are in fact manageable, Mr Minister, just like last year and last year. Her place of business can and does not seem to be good at managing this. You may not be able to do it because the same people are working in the resort as in 2015 – we have already experienced a management crisis – or that you think the situation is opportunistic, because the Turks do nothing better than to play the migration card, their favorite card when it is needed once again. In fact, it is simply another management failure on the part of the ÖVP that we are experiencing here. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I would now like to say spontaneously something about Poland and Belarus: All are talking about extortion, and of course Lukashenko extortions us, but he also tells us that we as the European Union are showing our hypocritical face because, in the face of a number of thousands of people – in turn – we do not manage to respect our basic values and we are beginning to violate existing EU law in the EU states. Non-refoulement, push-backs are abstract terms, but it is about people – including refugees – being on European territory and being violently pushed back. This gap shows the EU at the moment, we have to stop that, just as naturally the flights to Belarus and these possibilities Lukashenkos to build up pressure – but now this manageable number of people should be safe before even more freezing.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e38507	Mr Karl Nehammer spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e38539	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Much has already been said about the highest security budget in the Second Republic for the Ministry of the Interior. It is about 38 000 employees, 32 000 of them police officers, uniformed and in civilians. On the basis of this budget, it is necessary to allow them to have appropriate working conditions for the sole purpose of ensuring greater security for the Republic of Austria. A great thank you also from my side to all those who have contributed, especially to the Minister of Finance, who has also recognised the priority on the budget and, in a joint effort with the Federal Government, is actually making this record budget available for security in Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] What's going to do with it? - Well, first of all, the most important thing: We make sure that enough police officers are on duty, that above all more are employed as a pensioner. This is a big project, which is the staff offensive with 4 300 additional posts: 2 000 in training, 2 300 in fact on police inspections. The good thing is that the money invested here by taxpayers is effective: In spite of the Corona virus crisis, we managed in 2020 to remove 1,600 police officers. That is why this is such a significant number because, in fact, 600 more are on police inspections; 1,000 who have gone to retirement have been replaced. That is to say, this trend is being continued, the personnel offensive is actually effective, and the people in the communities as well as in the cities will feel it. On the other hand, we have experienced that the threat has changed dramatically during the corona pandemic. We must note that crime is incredibly quickly adaptable. We are dealing with classic Internet crime to deal with cybercrime; this is about fraud crimes that become felt up to the smallest community, as people are cheated on their savings. This new budget also shows that when it comes to helping these people quickly. We will make a major criminal service reform, we will already create appropriate skills in police inspections, so that where most ads happen, they can be implemented equally properly. Then the Federal Criminal Office, the Federal Criminal Office, becomes involved, and then the international network of police is being beaten, because Internet crimes are always transnational in this area and therefore this international cooperation is equally important. However, this is always the starting point: How long does the ad take, how will it be processed and how quickly can one proceed against the perpetrators? In addition, much money is also invested in the fight against high risk criminal networks. What's behind that? . We simply see that the whole area of organised crime, when it comes to drug trafficking, when it comes to money laundering, when it comes to terrorist financing, which is useful to Darknet, is trying to get the Internet crime completely and use it for its purposes, and we also have to take precautions and fight against it. When I became an Interior Minister in 2020, there was a new form of attack, a new form of threat that is becoming increasingly visible, namely cyber spying. We had a spiponagist approach to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the aim of identifying the communication of the Republic of Austria with the European Commission. So in the future, we need to be much more opposed to this form of attacks, spying. This is a very complex and extensive undertaking, concerns a lot of levels and, above all, needs extensive resources, funds available, so that the experts who are well trained for this can actually be used for these issues and can fight against this form of threat. It's been a year since: ==References== November 2020 has shown us that Austria is no longer opposed to terrorism. For many decades we were, and then he brutally struck: four victims of murder, countless injured, a background of Islamist attack, which also shows the threat and the impact of Islamic activities in Austria with the background of political Islam and all its networks. It also needs resources in the fight against terrorism – quite pragmatically. There is therefore an anti-terrorism package of 120 million euros, which can already be found in this budget. 60 million euros already exist in 2022, which are used to better equip the Cobra anti-terrorist unit with armored vehicles, their impact in the truest sense of the word to increase the fight against terrorism. It will continue to invest in the protective equipment and in the armed forces of the police. In addition, we in this government have jointly addressed one of the largest security policy projects. Many have no longer believed that it will actually happen. We have completely reintroduced the constitutional protection. We now have the Directorate for State Protection and Intelligence, have a intelligence and a state police section. The information is gathered in the Location Information Centre, and it then derives the necessary strands of action to combat terrorism and all that has to do with terrorist financing. Why do I say, “everything that has to do with terrorist financing ”? – We see that we need two strands in which we invest in particular, what we also do: on the one hand, in the new constitutional protection, but on the other hand also in the Federal Criminal Office. We see that organized crime is often the foundation and the basis for the equipment of terror, and terrorism, in turn, serves organized crime, for example in the form of drug trafficking, in order to manage funds to actually complete its deadly business. In addition, we have taken note of the findings of the 2nd century. November police response, this also needs investment. We've set up the rapid reaction forces. This is a two-column model: On the one hand, in all the federal states, there will be standstill units in the future, which will be used even now, at the time of the Corona pandemic. Preparation units are reinforcements for operational forces. This is a police and police pool, well-trained, which can quickly strengthen local forces if a situation is suddenly escalated, but can also be used when it comes to taking priority actions. That's what's happening right now, these days. The second pillar concerns the rapid intervention groups according to the model of the Wega in Vienna. We have seen in the terrorist attack, it needs well-trained, well-armed police officers who can be used quickly. Only that's why we managed to neutralize the perpetrator within 9 minutes – an international high value in the fight against terrorism, also with a lot of attention and recognition for the police officers of the special forces. I think all that is done there is still a great applause. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We see that the area of terrorism is a much more comprehensive one, and that is why resources need to be made available, on the one hand, in order to observe the Islamic scene in particular, but also the right-wing extremist. We have found a high level of violence. By what? – By making incredible weapons finds, of fully automatic weapons, of tons of ammunition, of explosives that are now being heard and which remind us of the utmost caution, especially when you think of the example of the Federal Republic of Germany. Again and again, when I point out this point, the criticism comes and it is asked: Well, what about the left-wing extremists? – We observe them the same way, only they are currently different from the right-wing extremists. This makes left-wing extremism particularly visible in Austria – and this in turn is a struggle for the police, especially in the field of demonstration protection and the Great Security and Ordinance Service – that they are particularly aggressive and violent in the public against police officers, but do not show a high level of armament as the right-wing extremists do at present. Thus, right-wing extremism by means of explosives, fully automatic weapons is a real threat our democracy and the freedom and security of citizens. Therefore, in particular, it is determined against Islamism as well as against the right-wing extreme scene. We have already addressed the challenges. We live in the world of digitalization. This too is particularly cost-intensive. All the programmes necessary for the protection of the Constitution, for the Federal Criminal Office, in order to be able to fight a nostril in advance against organised crime and terror at the level of the eyes and in the best of all worlds, need great effort. This budget, this EUR 3.2 billion, actually ensures the necessary resources. Generally, a trend is recognizable, and you will see that in the high house. We are changing with regard to the budgeting of the police. In the past, it was classic for the police to be very personal-intensive and therefore this personal-intensive topic was also repeatedly presented in the budget. At the same time, we note that it is increasingly necessary to increase the technicalization of the police, the police and police, especially the special units. This means that the so-called effort in the internal budget is increasing, because it is simply necessary. Now we are coming to the other major budget area, clearly small but important, to the area of tourism. Everything was said here, but I think everything has to go a bit far back to the right light. Why do I say that? We heard Mrs Krisper before. Mrs Krisper – how should I say? – In her self-scribing, she is very happy to express closeness and respect and appreciation for people, but it is strange to say that the people who do a great deal in the field of tourism are not at all given it. She's talking about mismanagement, miscalculations, government failure, perhaps, too. – Mrs Krisper, I would like to remind you that you yourself have not, in fact, made a significant contribution to Austria’s international commitment to protecting people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why it is especially objectionable for me if officials, employees who are employed and working in this area, are always accused that they are always shown with the big moral finger, without actually doing anything for the protection and housing of the people. I strongly reject your criticism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The development of Belarus is indeed worrying, and Mr Amesbauer has said a lot about this. Unlike you – you are in opposition – it is up to us to act. I am in close exchange with the Polish Minister of the Interior, with the allies, the Interior Ministers of Lithuania and the other Baltic States, the European Union, who have recognized this very threat. Yes, it was also Austria that led the Commission to rethink. The Commission is now seriously considering the fact that Poland is actually helping to enable border protection in fact and not just discussing the topic of reception centres. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] Now we come to an aspect that is equally important to me. We have heard that there is just a lot of suffering on the border between Belarus and Poland. That's right, and that's actually unbearable. It is worth pointing out that it is still possible today that potentials believe that they can make politics with human life. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let's not make a mistake: Let us not put this problem, which has been brought exclusively by Lukashenko, into the hands of the European Union now, because that is the completion of the work of Lukashenko. Our task It must be the duty of Belarus and the Russian Federation to take care of these people who have led them to the border with false promises. It must be a similar approach to what we have achieved in the European Union towards Turkey. Do you remember? President Erdoğan led violent migrants and other migrants with false promises at the borders between Greece and Turkey, there was violence; and Erdoğan also had the power to stabilise the situation at the border and to normalize the relationship between Greece and Turkey. This process must be called upon by Lukashenko by means of closeness and sanctions, which we firmly call on the European Commission to make it clear to Belarus that we are not being extorted by these methods. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Much has already been said about the foreign policy budget, and yes, it is our commitment – our international commitment and national commitment – to accommodate and care for people who seek protection in our behalf. According to the possibilities of the Republic and the federal states, this is what happens, Mrs Krisper. It is easy to judge and say: Take her! And: They do not meet their obligations! if you suddenly need to provide and securely accommodate hundreds who arrive at the day. This is a great challenge, and the challenge is not getting smaller, and that is why the foreign budget is not only looking after the subject, but above all at measures that people don't come to us at all. Before the European external border, we must begin to bring back people who do not have residence rights in good time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] That is why we have designed comprehensive return programmes, set up a platform against illegal migration, and are now in the process of achieving real progress with Bosnia-Herzegovina that people who are not allowed to stay in the European Union will be brought back to countries of origin. We must start to clarify this question before the EU's external borders, because that is where Mr Amesbauer is right: At present, the European Union is committed to including international laws in people we know will not have a right to stay, namely, if they are able to cross the border, they: Asylum!, say and thus an asylum procedure begins. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Not only does this recognition have Austria, which is massively burdened in the European Union, but they now have more and more eastern as well as western allies within the European Union. In the presentation we were so pleased to have been put to the shame that we are only the friends of the Visegrád states who clearly oppose migration – which is not true either, because Poland is giving great help to Ukrainian refugees in an incredible number. In addition to this history, which is no longer to be carried out here, we now have allies throughout Europe, throughout the European Union and outside the European Union, starting with Great Britain. Denmark, Belgium, the Netherlands, the Federal Republic of Germany and France, which will soon take over the Presidency of the Council, will also take this issue very seriously and begin to reflect on how we make the European Union resilient on the one hand, thus making it resistant to extortion attempts by: Potentials such as Lukashenko, and at the same time to think about how we can stabilise crisis regions in such a way that escape movements don't even begin. We must start where the escape begins at all to prevent it from actually happening in the European Union. This is a comprehensive project. It has just become visible in the Afghanistan crisis that for the first time it has been decided quickly that investments in the region have been made that hundreds of millions of euros have been promised within minutes so that people do not even get on the way. So that we are already aware of the dimension of what we are talking about here: We do not need a migration movement from Afghanistan to Austria in order to achieve a migration crisis in Austria or the European Union. Remember that 2.4 million Afghans live in Iran, 1.2 million Afghans in Pakistan – and only a fraction of these people, when they get on their way, are able to destabilise the social systems of the European Union. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I am here in good company of the Danish Minister for Migration, former Communist, now Socialist, who said: It is the duty of a politician who represents a welfare state to also ensure that the welfare state is preserved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that this is also our motivation for our country of origin, for the Republic of Austria, for the people who live in Austria: that we can actually secure this welfare state, in order to guarantee the future and security here in a peaceful reality of human life. So you see: The budget is fully divided, divided, from internal security of 3.2 billion to hundreds of millions for the topic of tourism – with the overall aim of securing the free, democratic Austria in the truest sense of the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e38754	Next speaker is Ing. Manfred Hofinger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e38779	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the security and protection of our population, the citizens of Austria is a great asset. We live in a very safe country compared to many other countries around the world, and we owe this to a large part of thousands of police officers. They are the heroes of everyday life who work to protect our citizens – thank you for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, there is no security at zero rate, and therefore we will also increase the budget by EUR 78 million – a total record budget of EUR 3.25 billion, the highest budget we have ever made available for security in Austria. Thank you very much. It is right and true, the terrorist attack last year, the corona pandemic, the cyberattacks on ministries, but also on many companies, the attacks on women and so on, we face great challenges, and we need to adapt to this changed threat scenario. That is why we are investing massively in security and also in the protection of terrorism, which is very important to us. We have reversed the BAT, newly set up in the Directorate for State Protection and Intelligence, and the resources for the protection of women will also be available to us. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We will also invest 60 million euros in an anti-terror package. Of the 3.25 billion euros, 75 percent are spent on personnel costs. We are also standing there and we will be expanding this over the next few years. We have set the goal for ourselves to reintroduce 4 300 police officers until 2024 in order to increase security in Austria again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But of course we also increase the budget for the equipment, for special vehicles of the Cobra, but also for protective vests, impact protection, storm guns and, I am particularly pleased, also for real estate. That is, I think, essential for the motivation of the police. We set up or open up twelve new services and reorganise many services. I believe that this is a very essential, visible sign by the government for the importance of the services and the security of police officers. Overall, this is a very good budget. Mr Federal Minister, thank you very much to you and, of course, to all the police who are working daily to protect our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e38836	The next speaker is Mrs Sabine Schatz. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e38860	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, as we know from your question, Federal Minister, the number of right-wing crimes in Austria increased again in the first half of 2021. It has been on a terrifyingly high level for years. At the same time – and you have already referred to it – in the last two years, we have experienced several huge weapons finds in the extremely extreme right-wing scene, large arms depots have been lifted, only last week in Lower Austria a large arms camp and NS-Devotionals. I believe that these facts simply show the danger to internal security that we are dealing with here, and that is why we have been saying for years that concrete and active countermeasures are needed to actively combat right-wing extremism. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The abolition of the right-wing extremism report under Black-Blue in 2002 was a massive setback, and we have repeatedly pointed out that the fight against right-wing extremism needs well-founded and high-quality data in order to develop on-the-job measures in order to combat right-wing extremism. I am pleased that there is the announcement that this right-wing extremism report will be published again in October 2022 for the years 2020/2021. This is a really important measure, and I am pleased that it has succeeded in paying off our pressure in this regard and this right-wing extremism report will appear again next year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All in all, however, we need a concrete plan of action, as we can consistently and rigorously take action against right-wing extremism, and we decided here in June with the votes of almost all parties that there should be a national action plan against right-wing extremism. There you, Minister, are now on the move to make this National Action Plan transparent and ultimately implement it, involving experts and experts. In particular, the massive increase in the number of anti-Semitic incidents – the IKG and the forum against anti-Semitism drew attention to the extreme rise in the first half of 2021 – the insolence of the Nazi crimes and the Shoah, the anti-Semitic incidents in the ranks of the coronal and coronal women we have experienced in the last one and a half years and I really want to reject with all vehemence as a forget of history, especially those horrors that we are experiencing here, show once again how important it is to coordinate the measures of this action plan against right-wing extremism and the measures of the strategy against anti-Semitism and to combat anti-Semitism together and right-wing extremism. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and Greens]] Ladies and gentlemen, these measures, which are so urgently needed, of course also need the necessary financial resources, and, Minister of the Interior, we will closely follow your announcements in this area, because this also means, of course, that the funds announced must be used accordingly, the measures announced must also be implemented so that we can finally fight extremism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e38924	Mag.a Faika El-Nagashi. - Here you go, Mrs Magistra.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e38948	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to talk about a subject which I have been politically concerned about for many years, namely the prevention of extremism. This is an area that is not exclusively your budget. It is a social area, a cross-sectional area, but a very relevant place is located in you: the Federal Wide Network for Extremism Prevention and Deradikisation. This network makes an excellent work, is connected to all relevant facilities in this area and in exchange, among other things, with the Vienna network for extremism prevention and deradization. The Vienna network is now called a network of democratic culture and prevention, and there is already the core of what it is all about in this area, namely to preserve and convey the basic elements of our democratic society. That is, extremism prevention means to make these social efforts, to prevent people from being marginalized, to be able to grasp depreciation ideology, means that people there develop competence, of course, at different levels of resistance – individually, but also as a society – that we promote cohesion and that we convey membership. For this we have agreed – and I am glad to do so – 8 million euros, and these are means that are written annually in different resorts in the budget to implement extremism prevention programmes at this level. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to focus briefly on a few of them and call them. This morning, during the debate in social policy, the need for therapeutic support and therapeutic possibilities and interventions was already raised. As a result, we will support psychotherapeutic interventions with an amount of 1 million euros in order to provide support for extremely traumatised people through the Reset programme, which is implemented by the Nipe network. In the field of extremism prevention, there are still many programmes which help to promote cooperation, on the one hand, in the social field where voluntary work is concerned Many voluntary initiatives are already active, but programmes can also be specifically promoted in the field of sponsorship and mentoring, such as Connecting People. In the online field, there are programmes such as Web Angels, conducted by the Zara Anti-Discrimination Centre, which will deal in particular with the area of online hatred and hate postings, as well as the field of media competence and the development of gender-sensitive pedagogy. It has been mentioned by a colleague in the morning that, if something is called gender, that does not mean that a feminist ideology is behind it. But I would like to add the following: Even if it is, it is good and right. These are definitely feminist entrances, which are also implemented to reach and strengthen men with a gender-sensitive pedagogy, but also girls and young women. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But it is also about programs in the sports sector. Sports is an area where a lot can be done about club work, about fan work. I would like to say once again: It is about all extremisms, that is, also, as already addressed by colleague Treasure, about right-wing extremism, about Islamist jihadism, about conspiracy theories, about racism. It is about removing these extremisms from the soil. There will be a point of contact for extremism prevention in sport, and there will be further initiatives to enable women and men to get together well. This also includes creating spaces that meet the needs and in which radicalization will have no place. These are initiatives, which are now only briefly planned to take place annually, and I am very happy to be able to tell you more about these programmes later, when they have come into implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e39018	Mr Christian Ries. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e39043	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! “Without security [...] is not freedom,” says Wilhelm von Humboldt, and security costs money, a lot of money, but the protection of freedom must be worth it to us. And one thing ahead: This BMI budget of 3.25 billion euros is a good one. The path of strengthening internal security under Herbert Kicklein is alternatively non-existent, and it is good that further investment is made in personnel and its protective equipment. The light vests we acquired at the time are further purchased and are now routinely worn by officials in the field of foreign service. That means that our officials are now much better protected from trick weapons and small calibers than they were at the time. For more than ten years, we have applied for this in the staff representation and have always encountered deaf ears. Why that was so is still a mystery to me – that was already an international standard at the time. We also see the close-to-body cameras positive, because they are a self-protection for officials against alleged assaults. The additional expenditure on the protection of violence is also justified not only but also a need to pay off the advice for the prevention of violence for those at risk. That is what we decided together at the time. Values Ladies and gentlemen, such a budget is always a forecast, and forecasts are obviously so difficult because they concern the future in particular. For this very future, we consider some aspects to be particularly important. We believe that it is necessary to put more resources into active border protection. If you think that's an exaggeration, then come. You go to Burgenland and look at what is happening at our external borders. There are currently partly cross-border hiking days, mainly from young men from the Middle East or from the Hindus, and if we do not want to do so – which I assume – then we must actively prevent this. Ladies and gentlemen, what we now have on the border is more likely to take care of travel: from the border directly to the federal care. Active border protection looks different. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the meantime, even the Federal Criminal Office says that we will be outnumbering the 2014 figures this year. That's not a good omen, ladies and gentlemen. That means it could announce something. If that comes, the fight against Corona is a short-term problem to be solved. That must also be said. Where anything else has to happen is the pay of the police. To show you what I mean by that, I bring an example that comes from a budget request: ==References== In November of this year, 122.298 million euros were spent on the executive for 4.497 million overtimes. This results in an average of 27 euros gross per overtime done. In net terms, we are then at 15 euros to 18 euros per hour, depending on the salary level. Around this 15 Euro to 18 Euro per hour last year, hundreds of officials risked their lives in Vienna. Let us think about it, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, not every day of an official is like this, but every day in the service of a police officer can develop in this way. You don't know that before. In line with this latent risk, the salary and the composition of the salary are not adequate, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[14:32]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e39171	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Dr. Christian Stocker has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e39198	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! We all know that security is a basic need for people and is top priority in our population. It is therefore good and right, Mr Ries, if you are grateful for the acquisition of equipment for our executives. I would ask you, however, to give this thanks to the right address. It was under Minister of the Interior Sobotka when weapons, helmets and equipment were purchased. In this sense, thanks to the Minister of the Interior, Sobotka. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ries:... Protective vests not!]] However, although I am not surprised by Mrs Krisper's way of dealing with this issue, it is strange to me. You have to look at this again: You're saying here, it's surprising you don't see any pictures in connection with refugees and the Interior Minister; and then on these pictures you build your criticism – on pictures that you're not inventing, on a fiction. This shows us two ways: On the one hand, you continue to take your methods from the Investigation Committee, which has not been wrongfully - and you have just proved them to be - as an injunction committee, and obviously can no longer imagine a life without these methods and without an investigation committee politically. [[Abg. Fireplaces: With so many scandals...!]] [[Abg. Stögmüller:... much more...!]] On the other hand, it also shows: You need a fiction for your criticism, because reality doesn't matter. In reality, we see that this federal government is investing more in the security of our population year after year, and that in a time that is anything but easy. Mr Federal Minister, I am expressly grateful not only for increasing the amount of money invested in security, but also for the fact that in these difficult times of the pandemic you have brought together a BAT reform, which many have failed before, especially your predecessor as Minister of the Interior. [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and to Mr Jakob Schwarz and Mr Zorba.]] I also thank you for starting a police reform that will be one of the largest in this Second Republic and drawing lessons from the terrorist attack. All of this is not a trifle. Finally, in conclusion, I would like to thank all the police who, during this challenging period, are fulfilling their task for all our good and who are now also taking control of all the regulations we are here deciding to make available, so that we can also overcome this pandemic with the support of the executive. Thank you very much, Mr Minister, and all the officials in the executive service!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e39273	Mr. Dr. Johannes Margreiter is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e39298	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Watchers in front of the screens! In my opinion, Mr Krisper very much supported this sub-division, with factual arguments, a criticism worthy of addressing it in terms of content. What did you do, Minister of State? – They go here, stand up from the government bank and reject the criticism. You know what that means: I'm turning back!Unknown term type: "%s".? If a court rejects something, it means: I don't deal with the content either because I don't want to or because I can't. Mr Federal Minister, I find it extremely weak that you are not able to address the arguments of Mr Krisper in substance, but simply say: I reject it; I still support it with an injunction. [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] It is simply incorrect for you to go here and say that Mr Krisper did not make any contributions. You may not have been staged medially as great as your flight to Athens, but Mrs. Krisper certainly did more on site than you did with your media show. [[Abg. Tashner: Ms. Krisper is medially excellent!]] [[Call at the ÖVP: This is not a show!]] I just find that unworthy of an interior minister. I'll tell you what it is. [[Call to the ÖVP: These are the others!]] [[Abg. Hörl: The Krisper is a lying...!]] What I have to say: Of course, the budget has been increased, but the figures alone do not matter. We have heard of the major security challenges, you yourself and colleagues from the turquoise group have addressed them: the terrorist attack of 2.11., cyber attacks and the challenges of the Corona pandemic. But one thing I did not hear, even though this was not a significant event this year. I mean 6. October 2021, when an issue revealed how much our political system of corruption has subverted. Corruption prevention and control is also part of the internal budget. We have the Federal Office for Corruption – it would be nice if it were to do so – and fight corruption. I note that the funds have been raised a little bit, but on the other hand, it is obvious that you do not see this as a matter of concern, although this has been heavily occupied by the Austrian public over the past few weeks. It would be very desirable for this institution, as well as combating terrorism or extremism, to be at the attention of the Head of Government, but it is likely that This is not so convenient to them because it is not medially so easy to sell as if you are talking about external enemies, extremists, migrants et cetera. Another question: We have put a question on the matter of police force complaint and discussed it with you in the Budget Committee. There is a constant need for action. It's been talking about this for years. You explained that the process was about to run. What can you expect, Minister of State? This is a very important thing, which does not at all detract from the merit of the executive. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank the executive for their use, especially during these difficult times; but as we know, there are system breaks and system errors in all systems, and there should be a possibility for those concerned to complain very unbureaucraticly and directly. It is therefore excessive that this appeal body should be set up. So there are not only sunshine, but also some things that could be improved and would be very important for the security of the Austrian population: I would like to invite you to focus your attention on these too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e39374	Mrs Mag.a Johanna Jachs has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e39399	Mr President. Mr Nehammer! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! After these remarks by Mr Margreiter, let us all take a brief look at the Human needs think that Maslow has very plausibly summarized in a pyramid! Do you know what is in this pyramid at the very bottom – where it is the widest – just above the basic needs such as sleeping and eating? – Right: the need for security! It is therefore so important that we take care of this security need, and that is what we are doing with this budget. It is a record budget, and every euro we invest in security is a very well-invested euro for the freedom of our democracy. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we found in our country as well as at 26. This year a murder of a woman took place – at 26. Let's go! I mean, this is really a very clear, sad mission to us, especially because next week the 16 days against violence against women and girls begin. I believe that this symbol of the 16 days is very, very important, but it is even more important that we do something against domestic violence every 365 days of the year! This is also what we are doing with this budget, because we are massively strengthening the protection of violence, as well as sacrifice-oriented perpetrators' work. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me return briefly to human needs: It is true that in a society, people can only satisfy their other needs – up to self-realization – when their basic needs – as is the need for security in a society – are met. That is what I understand in politics, and we are creating the conditions for this with this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e39447	The next speaker is Mrs Nurten Yılmaz. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e39471	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister Nehammer, you are perfectly right: We must not be blackmailed by despots and dictators, and we must resist! I'll make you a suggestion: The only head of government in the Western world who has really built good, friendly relations with Mr Lukashenko was Mr. Kurz: There's been mutual visits, he brought him designer ski to Minsk. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Tashner: Friendship?- Oh, my God!]] I think he could be active now and say: Dear friend, that's not how it is! – He would certainly have back cover from the other Western governments. He was the only head of government in the West, the - - – Who has in Moscow? [[Call at the ÖVP: Who kissed the ground in Moscow?]] [[Call at the ÖVP: Who kissed the ground in Moscow?]] – Tell me, when did you show up? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is a diverse country, there are people with many different countries of origin, first languages and birthplaces. This diversity of our country must also be reflected in the institutions of the Republic, and one of these is the Austrian police. As a direct contact person in various danger situations, it has a special responsibility and has to do something special. The police do the same – thank you very much to all the police. Due to the special challenges, the need for trust and direct contact with all the people living in Austria, it is of enormous relevance not only to convey diversity within the police, but also to live itself. It therefore needs people from all sections of the population, social strata and first languages in the ranks of executives, women like men. I know the efforts of the Vienna police, which, together with the MA 17 for years, needs to carry out the action Vienna needs you and with this purpose, tries to recruit young men and women with migration biography. There are those efforts that are very valuable – I think the success is left to be desired, but at least there are these efforts. Of course, it would be desirable if this project were to be tested outside of Vienna. But let us come to a next construction site – and I am not talking about the bunker now, but one of the few meaningful projects of the Coalition Agreement, an independent complaint centre for police force. It has been two years since now, we are constantly talking about it in every debate in the Committee on the Interior, and how far are we going? - We're not far at all. I have the suspicion that you want to wait so long until there are new elections and this place is not set up. Just admit it, I don't need to ask again! But it would be important that you at least act as if you really want this place – You do it anyway, but you don't put it into practice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What you are constantly presenting, however, are special units, beautiful photos for the boulevard. These police officers, who always present you – standby unit, intervention unit – are actually withdrawn from the guard rooms. [[Call the ÖVP: Don't vote!]] Where are the new police officers in Vienna? [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Close to these units!]] Where are the new police officers for favorites? In the case of the same population as Linz, it looks like this: Linz has 620 locations, favorites 319 – with the same number of inhabitants! Number of police inspections: Linz twelve, favorite seven. [[Abg. Loacker: In favourites they eat less horse drains!]] - That's not my topic now, gal? [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Loacker.]] If you want, we can also discuss the Chamber of Workers – if you like! Nevertheless: Favorites are as big as Linz, and we don't have any officials. They always present special units, which are removed from the wax tubes, which are not new entrances. Lots of PR, many show trips to the Balkans, lots of announcements, lots of flexibility, many pseudoactions, Operation Luxor – but the really concrete security work is not done, as we had to experience Vienna women and Vienna quite a year ago unfortunately. This attack shows a systemic failure in advance. Thank you to the forces who were on the ground so quickly and prevented worse – but for the errors of investigation, the communication errors and the wrong resource allocations, you have political responsibility, Minister! That must never happen again! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e39595	Mrs Mag.a Corinna Scharzenberger has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e39620	Mr President. Estimated Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear taxpayers! If you follow the discussion closely, it is difficult for some speakers to recognize objective and well-founded arguments – and we do not need to talk about the tone at all. I believe that the Politics should deal less with itself and need to take more care of content. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Times are not easy, and also the challenges and tasks of the police have changed dramatically in recent years; Keywords: Pandemic control, cybercrime or extremism. That is why we increase the budget of the interior region by 236.4 million euros over the next federal financial framework. This is the highest security budget in the history of the BMI. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Women's protection against violence will also be increased by 10 million euros in the security sector. A message is very important: If you're threatened with violence, you'll get the police to help! There is a network for every woman that can help in a sustainable way. This is precisely why there will be more prevention officials in the future who will be able to respond appropriately on the ground. In addition, the budget for the anti-terrorism package will be increased by EUR 120 million. The figures do not lie, they show that the security needs of the population are taken seriously. The equipment and equipment of the police are thus modernized and adapted to the new threats. With armored vehicles for the command of use Cobra, helmets, ballistic guard vests or stormguns for the rapid reaction forces, the police are well aware of the tool they need, knowing that the money we spend there – through the Federal Finance Act – is not our money. The money has earned the taxpayer through hard work and has resigned to the State in order to ensure the basic need for security. Allow me a word or a thought about the Freedom Party, as you criticize that the executives must control the Corona actions: We didn't need these measures, you wouldn't mobilize against vaccination like that. The pandemic is not a private matter! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] The policy is about it – Mrs Belakovich, let me speak out! – making the right decisions, and these are not always the most popular decisions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The freedom of the individual, which you are talking about, Mrs Colleague, does not let himself be vacated, which ends where she is concerned with the freedom of the whole society, since we again need the longer – and then the circle closes – to cope with the pandemic in order to return to economic, social and budgetary normality. So let's get on a line! I also dedicate the last words of my speech to the opposition: don't worry, the security in Austria is guaranteed by the excellent work of our executive.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e39702	Mrs Dagmar Belakovich has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e39726	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! Federal Minister! An exciting speech to be heard here in front of me: They place themselves here and actually strain the bow for vaccination. So you from the Austrian People's Party really can't help you anymore. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] Not even when it comes to internal security, you can leave it to operate propaganda here, and Although you do not know at all. They are such a thing of resistant to facts and data, which is really inconceivable. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Bösch.]] [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] I don't know what's going on with you, but I know the nerves are white. Once again, this is clearly recognizable. The colleague said earlier, for example, that we must make the right decisions in politics. I am here with you, but it is stupid that this Federal Government has made a wrong decision after the others since March 2020. We see the result of the Corona policy, the corona numbers. Heme came when we said over a year ago: Let's take Sweden as a model, let's go the Swedish way! – The Sweden are now through, you have to go through it now, because you have no other chance at all, and you think you can push the Black Peter to the population. So, and now I'm just stretching the bow, because it's about the internal budget, and the other thing we can discuss on many occasions, because we're going to end up anyway, when the pandemic is over and when your failure in an investigation committee is going to come to light. On the interior budget, Minister of the Interior: Well, yes, the terrorist attack that you complained about here, which claimed four human lives, was a systemic failure, you know, we all know, and that he could have been prevented, we all know that too, Federal Minister. Unfortunately, this does not make God’s sacrifices alive anymore, but it has been seen, above all on the anniversary, that the family would have expected a little more of your apologies. In the meantime, I hope you have made this up; I believe that the members of these dead ones have really deserved this pointless sacrifice, Mr Federal Minister. But what is actually there is a need for security in the population. Yes, that's given, of course, we all know that. We welcome the staff offensive, which has already been conducted under Herbert Kicklein, and every money is necessary for that. But she could get a little stronger, because I think we're gonna need more officials. They themselves have said that only 1,000 of the 1,600 persons who have been selected replace retirement, i.e. the “real profit” – under quotation marks – when they are called so, are 600 officials. That sounds a lot at the first moment, but if you look at how many actually are missing, you have to say it takes a lot more. Of course, you will always have our support and you have to take money in your hand, that is quite clear. Have to have Lukaschenka Of course you said: Yes, he's extorting the EU. - We know that. And yes, we know you said from the beginning that Poland has been supported, we recognise that too. But why does Lukashenko blackmail the EU? And I think you've had a wrong idea again. You said: Erdoğan did that too, but we have an agreement with him. – Erdoğan blackmails the EU all the time, for he only needs to say: More money, and if there's no more, I'll send you some more! – And that was exactly the mistake of the European Union: to be blackmailed. I really hope that this mistake will not be made right now, that you will not let yourself be extorted. And there also in the direction of the left half of the empire: The few manageable people standing there?- Oh, my God! And if it were only 20, we can't let them in, because otherwise there would be a sucking effect right away, ladies and gentlemen! You finally have to understand this, if you have a left thought that you can't be blackmailed and can't say: It's only a few hundred! – Yes, but a few hundred will be a few thousand, then It'll be a few tens of thousands, a few hundred thousand. We all know the pictures from 2015 and know what happened then. And if you look at videos from the Polish border now: So if they're refugees who want to walk around their lives, I'll ask myself the question: Why are police guys seriously injured, why do the tree trunks take their hands, go to police officers in Poland? So, quite honestly: It is certainly not possible to solve a problem with violence. And violently conquering a escape route, so that's really something I deeply reject. I therefore believe that, as the Republic of Austria, we should really be very grateful to the Poles for doing the work for the whole of the Union. Because one thing has to be clear to all of us: Those who stand there on the border between Belarus and Poland do not want to go to Poland, who want to Germany, who want to go to Austria and those who want to go to Sweden. That is to say, the Poles are actually doing our work, Mr Federal Minister, and we must also be grateful to them and they deserve all their support for it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What we have, however, Mr Federal Minister, are record numbers of asylum seekers. Last year we were the country in the EU with the highest number of asylum applications. Also this evening we are overrun, and when I look into Burgenland and see what is happening there, I have to say: It's unbearable! And I'll tell you, that's your failure. And now I'm closing the circle to my predecessor: If you control your own people, whether they buy shoes or not, and you control vaccines like unvaccinated, because you don't look at them at the nostrils, then it's clear to me that you don't have any more officials who can send you to the borders in Burgenland. That's exactly the problem: Instead of properly protecting the boundaries below, sharpening You are your own unspoiled citizens, Minister of State! And that's this misguided fetish corona policy. With you, everything is all about green pass, green pass, green pass, and that's a big mistake. Let's take the whole thing as what it is: There is a lockdown for people who are unvaccinated. If they hit in the gastronomy, they will be sent home anyway. Whether they're going to the shopping center, Billa, shoe shop or not – you'll never be able to find everyone. I'm telling you quite honestly: That doesn't matter either. The only thing that makes it is that you make 30 percent of the population socializing. Everyone can make themselves here and say: Oh, no one should be excluded from society, we need deradization programs – but we exclude 30 percent of them, we make them an outcast. Let's stop it at last! Finally, stop splitting the population, Minister of State! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I believe that it is urgently necessary for us to finally look back at migration policy and secure our borders. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I urgently ask for adoption. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[15:01]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e39918	I suppose that's five signatures. I would ask you to go back to the practice of writing the name below. But I assume they're five. The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Minnich. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e39942	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Deputies in the National Council! Dear spectator at home! The protection and security of our citizens is one of the key tasks of our state. With the State Protection Act, a law has been created in a large co-operation. I would like to thank Mr Mahrer and all his colleagues on this point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Something good came about here. Thank you for being together, which in this difficult time should be a model for many. In the course of the debate, we hear again and again that the budget is the policy cast into figures. What policy can we derive from the Ministry of the Interior's budget? – Yes, we see a clear commitment to safeguarding internal security and a well-equipped police. Our police, together with the security administration, are doing a great job. Our task in this context is to create the framework for addressing future challenges. In any case, we are in line with this budget. The focus here is first on cybersecurity, second on the recasting of state protection, third on disaster management and fourth on the personnel and equipment offensive, which gives a clear direction here. Mr. Federal Minister, congratulations on this budget! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Zorba.]] We have an anti-terrorism package with a total of over 120 million euros. This package massively modernises police equipment and equipment and adapts them to the new threats. What exactly does that mean? – It means more than 2 000 equipment – body impact protection – more than 430 ballistic protective vests, about 2 250 new stormguns for the rapid reaction forces, 1 320 body-wirn Cameras and around 670 protective helmets, a new bomb transport vehicle for the rescue service and three special vehicles of type Survivor. In addition, there is EUR 5 million for the increase of resources to strengthen the resilience and the defence of cyber-attacks. One area that's particularly important to me – on 25 June. November starts again Orange the World –: 2.5 million euros a year are available for the increased protection of women, especially within the family, in order to protect them from violence. Our security area has been permanently faced with special challenges since 2015. It is remarkable how great our police officers as well as the security administration are mastering this burden. - Dear cops! Thank you all for your so important contribution. We can rely on you and will support you where we can. Thank you! Mrs Yılmaz! [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and to Mr Jakob Schwarz and Mr Zorba.]] Please check the homepage of the Austrian-Belarusian Society. There was recently written: In a friendly atmosphere, one has had a Belarusian assignment in the SPÖ Club in front of the Kreisky painting. [[Call at the ÖVP: Hear, hear!]] – Please ask your colleague Robert Laimer. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e40000	No one is reporting on this. The discussions on this subject have thus ended. I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior. [[15:06:48]] UG 42: Agriculture, regions and tourism.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e40024	I welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Regions and Tourism and we come to Division 42: Agriculture, regions and tourism. Mrs Cornelia Ecker is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e40051	Mr President! Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Over the past 50 years, about half of our farmers have literally put their jobs on the nail, and they have given up their farms. The corresponding reasons were sold to other farmers, the animals and the agricultural machinery mostly sold. The fact that some farmers have used the favour of the hour and have built up considerable farms with the lease of land and the purchase of animals and cheap agricultural machinery shows the following impressive statistics: In 1951, an average Austrian farm still covered about 9 hectares, in 2019 the size was already at 20 hectares and today it is certainly a little more. What can be concluded from it? – The little ones disappear and the big ones are getting bigger and bigger. This is not a random development, but it is the result of decades of consistent EIA agricultural policy. A budget is the political will cast into figures. The numbering presented today clearly shows that the EIA or you as Minister for Agriculture, Mrs Köstinger, unfortunately do not want to change this missing agricultural policy. But before I go into detail with my criticism, I would like to address the construction of the UG 42 every year. In the analysis of the draft, one has the feeling that the Minister of Agriculture confused the preparation of the budget with the baking of a cake: There is a little agriculture, a price of tourism there, a portion of telecommunications and a little bit of civil service. After that, everything is put into a bowl, mixed and then baked. Then there is a cake that looks delicious, but you don't know exactly what is contained or in what amount it was processed. Not only does the Schnitzel need a designation of origin in Austria, but they certainly also need the numbers in the UG 42, ladies and gentlemen. The draft budget is unclear, not transparent and the origin of so many figures is simply not understandable to us Members. But I should like to thank you at this point and also on behalf of my group for the budget service of the House for its work. The team around Mr. MMag. This year, Dr Berger has managed to analyse this rather inconspicuous budget and thus create a solid basis for discussion for us Members. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Minister, even if I assume that this is your last agricultural budget, I would like to ask you once again to finally bring clarity and transparency into your budget. With more than EUR 3 billion in the budget of the Minister of Agriculture, this budget is more than just abundant – I very much welcome this as an agricultural speaker in my group – but the distribution of these funds does not fit in the back and front. There is no money for a pesticides reduction in the local fields. The agricultural lobby, Mrs Minister, will thank you for not having people in this country. In this context, I would also like to mention my request for a total ban on glycosate. At the same time, I would like to mention at this point that I really feel it is a pity and a sign that every year a parliamentary request is needed to find out how many tons of glycosate are placed on the market. Mrs Minister, why hide You're talking about these numbers? Today, ladies and gentlemen, we also see black on white that it is not the will of the ÖVP to provide more animal welfare, because there is no extra money to finally enforce the ban on whole-splitted floors, no funding programme, so that farmers can convert the stables and provide more animal welfare. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Do not put the blame on farmers, because they would have liked to do so if there were appropriate incentives and support programmes to do so. This budget is also a clear rejection of the development of social services in the countryside and the promotion of women in rural areas. This is not only short-sighted, but in the long run rural areas are starved and urbanisation is being driven forward. This is also a fatal sign of climate policy. The budget presented is unseemly and will in no way meet the needs of local farmers. To increase direct payments every year is certainly the wrong approach. You should think about it before: Why do the farmers not get through with their farm, why can they no longer live on it? Our farmers do hard work every day, they are responsible for the fact that Austria has such a high level of self-sufficiency in basic food. As a thank you, they are degraded from the ÖVP to beneficiaries of subsidies. The primary sector not only needs more money, but also courageous legislative initiatives such as a genuine designation of origin and a strong supply chain law. We are committed to this, and we will demand it strictly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e40122	The honourable Member has been informed of the matter. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e40143	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The agricultural and agricultural budget is intended to secure one in our country, and that is the supply. Seeing At present, agricultural markets, which are enormously on the move, have price increases for many raw materials, and this, of course, is also reflected in agricultural raw materials. Supply chains are shortened there and there, but we manage to maintain the supply situation in Europe and especially in Austria, with high-quality food. This is the merit of the Austrian farmers and the merit of a successful agricultural policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But we need several mechanisms to do this: On the one hand, climate change adjustment is the biggest challenge for agriculture in the next decades. We have done much with the instruments of harvest insurance and hail insurance, with initiatives on irrigation and with the establishment of the forest fund – with over 350 million euros for the health of the local forest, but especially for the future design of the Austrian forest. We also find in this budget the total resources for rural development, with which we create a great deal up to biodiversity. However, we must also be careful to deal with this carefully, because in Europe we have nothing to do with flowering strips in the field, but with condensation strips in the sky, because we no longer produce but import them. That means we have to keep production up. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For this we also need extensive framework conditions, which are also shown here. We see in the social discussion the challenge regarding standards, especially in animal husbandry we have extensive discussions. However, we also need to secure the stock as an economic base to change something in the future. That means: Accept challenges, but do not transform everything immediately, because then our businesses cannot join. We must be able to make adjustments. We have fully financed the common agricultural policy from the Austrian side, which is an important stand for agricultural income. In the tax scene of the eco-social tax reform, the farms also have a corresponding position that these scenes also represent the income ratios of agriculture. We help with farm resources to stand up internationally, and we have even implemented the energy autarchy for the farms in the program. It is only today that a regulation has been found for regular seasonals. I think this is very important, because we see that there and there diets change. We have more vegetable and fruit production, but this needs a lot of helping hands, and they are not always to be found in our country – well that we have this option now. We need stability in the markets, and we also have this stability through the designation of origin. Our strongest partner is the consumer, and he has to be able to recognize it. With the AMA seal we have an excellent decoration. These markings are further developed. In public procurement, this government has created a special focus on domestic, regional and healthy food. That's very, very much. Today, Mrs Federal Minister, the Council of Ministers has launched the implementation of the European UTP Directive, for greater fairness in trade, for greater strength for the small ones in the supply chain, with the creation of complaints. This should also strengthen us in the value chain. I think that's important, and that's why we can give safety to businesses: Future security and, above all, planning security for the coming years. So it's an important and right budget. One word only because the size of 20 hectares has previously been addressed for a farm: Please compare the operating sizes of Austria's companies with Those international companies – as you don't need to look so far, there's a look at Slovakia – then you see how small-structured Austria is. This is a merit of the agricultural policy, because it is only through specialization and diversification that a 20-hectare operation in Austria can still be successfully acquired. This is the merit of the agricultural policy of the Federal Government of Agriculture, the Austrian People's Party and this Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e40212	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member, the floor is with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e40234	Mr President. Minister! Dear Seers! We are debating the agricultural budget; or should we say that the budget for the institutions, for bureaucracy, for the processing industry, for the Minister's ads so that she can stand well and cover her inactivity, a budget for broadband expansion? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] In fact, only a fraction of this budget really comes to farmers. The CAP, the common agricultural policy, and yes, we are in negotiations for the new CAP, the minister is in negotiations for the new CAP, we are in the process of drawing up the new CAP. Unfortunately, you have once again failed to introduce a change of direction for the farmers, and it is to be feared that it will continue as before – or that it will become much worse. The Green Deal will continue to speed up structural change in Austria, the impact assessments on the Green Deal are disastrous: a lot of green, little deal. Overall, he does not bring anything for the environment, that is, domestic agriculture is sacrificed for nothing and nothing again. The impact assessment on the Green Deal for Agriculture states: Production will break down in all major agricultural branches, income will decline significantly, exports will decline and imports will increase. That's what you've done well, Mrs. Minister, or not – we'll see. This shifts our production abroad, and we all, you all, know where the products will come from – from the Mercosur countries, produced under low social environmental standards, transported through the half-world. Everything we save on emissions in Europe will go into the air there. Production will increase there, and with us the workplace farm will be destroyed. In summary, it is a disaster for Austrian agriculture. There is nothing happening for the environment, structural change is fuelled, small farms are disappearing. It's heading towards industrial agriculture. In my opinion, there are only losers. Mrs Minister, you are ruining not only the local peasantry, but also the consumer is paying for it. From a self-sufficiency, which is crucial in crisis cases, we remove ourselves faster than you believe. Mrs. Federal Minister! Do you really want to ruin the farmers? [[Federal Minister Köstinger reads in her documents.]] – She has more important things to do! [[Call to the ÖVP: This is understandable in your speech!]] How else can we? Interpret your non-negotiations? How do you want to improve the current precarious situation of farmers? I ask you: Where in the budget are the solutions, where are the answers to these questions? And please don't call the agricultural diesel or the tax refund for the farmers at the CO2 price! It is really ridiculous what has been calculated there. Those who have calculated this really belong to the wet slut. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lindinger.]] It is a blow to the face for the green farmers, but also a cock for the farmers. Agriculture does not need new conditions, not new directives, we need to safeguard the farm workplace, safeguard domestic production. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It must be possible for our farmers, farmers and farmers to supply our people with healthy domestic food. Our approach is clear: The introduction of a base funding amount per worker, a long-term support for the farm workplace. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask you to support our request. Of course, I expect the ÖVP to reject it and not to act. That's what we're used to. I think it's high time we hunt this ÖVP out of office. [[Congratulations with FPÖ.]] [[15:22]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e40359	The application is sufficiently supported and properly submitted and is under negotiation. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e40384	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Spoštovana Visoka Hiša! Ladies and gentlemen, [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] The budget for the next year in the agricultural sector is secured and is also rewritten in the large framework. If we ask ourselves what the big issues of agriculture are, we are quick to see that the structural change that we have already discussed is, of course, a key issue. In Austria, ten to twelve farms still block up every day. We have to ensure social security in rural areas. We have secured income for our farmers to create, and ultimately it is always and almost daily at fair prices. At fair prices: We managed in today's Council of Ministers to finally launch a law against unfair commercial practices. However, this great discourse at fair prices will continue to accompany us and it will intensify itself because the climate crisis will worsen. Only by having to solve not only the economic issues in agriculture, but increasingly the climate issue, will we have to change our actions. It also needs an open discussion among farmers about the fact that we are not only the first and directly concerned with the climate crisis, but also that we must make a contribution to the court every day. This will require policy-making through a framework programme, which will provide us with a target path to reduce our greenhouse gases and emissions from agriculture. Without any reduction, it won't be possible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we have spoken today about the production of agriculture, we must at the same time talk about crisis-resilient agriculture. I'll talk again. Not only from the economy, but also from the climate crisis. We know that animal husbandry is a big topic. What will directly influence animal husbandry over the next ten years? – They are our eating habits. We know when we screw back meat food three times a week, we just do something good to the climate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] This is not just a matter of environmental protection organisations, that is simply fact. Agriculture will experience this and can prepare for it today. If we as the Greens take part in this government work, then our manuscript will be that climate-related target paths will also find their rainfall by law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It will not be possible for us to maintain our biodiversity, which as farmers we need most urgently, if we do not change our practice. I think nothing of narrowing the performance of plants – either with organic or with conventional management. However, we can already be so honest as to say that biological management and the maximum reduction of plant toxins are very likely to contribute to biodiversity. I also think that we may be able – not yet 2022, but perhaps 2023 – to set up our own budget for this. For planning security only so much: If you just look at the economy and you don't think about climate change, agriculture will go to the wall. I don't want that. That is why I will work for small businesses that contribute to climate protection, and these will also be rewarded properly in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e40459	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e40480	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In this budget we clearly see the reflections of the first nearly two Corona years. We also see that some things are left. Unfortunately, we also see that some things are not available in this budget. Through the repeated lockdowns tourism has of course suffered insanely, especially because it started very early for tourism, because almost in March 2020 the first season was already over before it even started. Unfortunately, we have to note that the learning curve of the Federal Government was little steep in pandemic management and economic aid. This means that we are facing the same challenges we have faced two seasons before. It runs like a red thread. When it's helped, it's usually too late, or there's only promises. The touristists, the hoteliers cannot rely on them to be picked up tomorrow or the day after when it comes back to arrangements that will cause them no longer to have guests. We do not see that there is a need for further and more, in particular for economic aid. One could have taken time during the summer to consider whether all economic aid, especially in tourism, which we have designed, has been targeted. I've just been looking at the tourism website: I think there are ten different packages to request. And this is for SMEs, and then the tax advisors no longer know which package they are now to apply for, and do not know what directives will apply when they are finally settled at the end of the year. Unfortunately, we see in the budget too little in terms of announced reforms or we see too little implementation of these reforms, in particular with regard to the future plans for tourism. There are some projects that have been ventilated for a very long time, ranging from seasonal planning to equity financing. Before we have implemented a large reform package, we are already in the next reform package, as we can read in the budget. Winter tourism takes place this year, it was called. That was on November 8th. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hörl.]] I am not sure if this is still the way it should be, because guests from Germany, especially those with children, have already left with their families after there have been travel warnings. We have already pointed out a long time ago that it would be useful to try to avoid these travel warnings and negotiate with our target markets so that guests can stay in the country. A short time ago on the subject of seasonal eggs, a regulation on this subject has already been discussed today: We believe that this scheme has great weaknesses, especially because of the decision to the three consecutive years, of which two years were for the corona years. We do not believe that this will go out and would have liked to see that you are a little more flexible on the topic of seasonal eggs. We would like us not always to start a reform process after the next one and then push it into the drawer, but instead to start implementing the necessary reforms. Let us hope that guests will remain for winter tourism and that the season for our hoteliers and especially for the hoteliers families will be half good!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e40545	Mrs Bundesminister has been reported to speak. The word stands with her. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e40566	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. A budget estimate – which has already been addressed – has been cast into figures policy. This is especially true of my department, the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Regions and Tourism, in which many policy areas, which are very important for our country, for which people in Austria's regions are very important, are united. In my opinion, Mrs von der SPÖ has compared this with cake baking, but this is actually in line with the responsibility for gastronomy. I believe that we have a very, very large task of creating equal opportunities between people in the city and the country. We must do everything we can to ensure that the habitats remain alive, that we can also make regional economies possible and, above all, encourage young people in rural areas to stay in their homes, in their home regions. Above all, we need to use the opportunities of digitisation and thus give Austria a future across the board. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are, of course, placing a very large emphasis on agriculture. This is precisely what I see, Mr Loacker, who does not give me the opportunity to attribute to me equipment from agriculture. Mr Loacker, I can tell you: There is little I do with as much pride as my role as Minister of Agriculture. In agriculture, people are active 365 days a year doing what is most important to all of us. [[Abg. Loacker: Then just don't say anything about health!]] They take care of the food production, the care and the landscape conservation of our regions and the cultural landscape in Austria, which is so important for tourism, for climate protection, for biodiversity, for the whole forestry industry. This really fills me with pride and I say a very, very thank you to all farmers out there. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Loacker.]] As far as agriculture is concerned, the focus is very clearly on producing agriculture. We live in a society for which it is entirely natural that the food shelves are freshly filled every day. But this is not a matter of course what the corona pandemic with the first lockdown, the closed boundaries has made clear. Once there were shortages of supply, we knew that we could rely on our farmers, and that will be a very clear priority for us in the future. There are many challenges facing agriculture from society, and we will face them. Especially the issue of climate protection concerns no one stronger than farmers in this country, so we are putting a very clear emphasis on it in our Öpul programme and will also increase the budget for this area. There is, of course, a great requirement in the area of animal welfare. Here too, with the largest animal welfare package that has ever been available in Austria – 120 million euros investment support for animal welfare-friendly stables – we set a strong emphasis already in this year. Now, only consumers who are willing to use the meat and question the relevant products on the shelf need to be asked, then this will be a real success model made in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another central focus, of course, is the forestry industry in Austria, which has been facing major challenges for years. On the one hand, the situation on the wood market is a very big challenge, but on the other hand it is also the impact of climate change, such as very late snowfalls, strong weather events and the same that threaten us massively. The massive occurrence of the borch beetle also puts the forestry under pressure. Last year, we made 350 million euros available to the forest fund, which is intended to go to the reforestation. This way we continue consistently with this budget in order to make our natural air conditioning, but also the regional economic cycles created by the wood material, sustainable. We are planning a large-scale wood construction offensive, in which we want to bring wood into public buildings much more strongly than building materials, and we are focusing on research in the future. In my responsibility, the water industry is also a very central and high priority. It is about the supply of drinking water, which has an exceptional quality in Austria and will continue to exist in the future. The area of wastewater treatment is also central to the general supply of water and works mainly in cooperation with our cities and communities. Not least, it is also the lakes with drinking water quality, which play a particularly important role in tourism in Austria and have quality. I am already on the subject of tourism and therefore on the industry most hard hit by the Corona pandemic. In the next budget, we set key priorities, for example in commercial tourism promotion, with many programmes that we are trying to implement. On the subject of economic aid, which has been raised, I should like to ask the Members of the National Council to acknowledge that many things in the field of economic aid we provide are financed from the Ministry of Finance, the Coronahilfe Fund, and are not in the budget of the Ministry of Tourism, which is only in the middle of the order. The issue of mining also falls within our competence. We will set a very large focus on digitization. The supply of raw materials is becoming increasingly important. Let's just look at what it's gonna take on raw materials to really implement the Renewable Development Act! For wind turbines made of steel, for photovoltaic systems and much more, we need raw materials and of course we want to produce them to a very high extent in Austria itself. Broadband development is another very, very central issue. This, of course, applies to both the city and the country, which we clearly prioritize from the public sector, but it is a comprehensive development and in this respect we see as a great priority, above all under-supplyed regions and communities. The budget also covers this and a really good news is the long-term perspective: By the year 2026, we are available EUR 1.4 billion for broadband development in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To finish the whole thing: Protection against natural hazards is also a major, important priority. As has been shown in recent years, the Wildbach and avalanche cultivation is a major priority. This is also covered by our budget figures, and we will continue this intensively in future with the federal states. Last but not least: The budget estimate of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Regions and Tourism for 2022 provides expenditure of around 3.37 billion euros. This is a significant increase compared to the previous year. It is a very important signal for rural areas, it is a very important signal for tourism, gastronomy and broadband development. We will thus be able to achieve the essential objectives. – Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e40630	Mrs Berlakovich is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e40651	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The European Commission has adopted the Green Deal. The Green Deal is a programme of the European Commission to take into account climate change and environmental degradation and to transform society and the economy into a sustainable, climate-friendly economy. – So far, so honorable, but I think it is necessary to deal critically with this Green Deal. This has already been addressed today. For example, if, for agriculture, the objectives of reducing plant protection and fertilisation are to a large extent, this is basically positive. This costs the farmers a lot of money. The less you use it, the better it is – now, late, but yet, the European Commission has made an impact assessment and announced: When their Green Deal is implemented, it will be in Europe Food prices rise, farmers will lose income and we will no longer be able to produce so many foods in Europe, but will have to import them from other regions of the world. I think you have to critically question that. Finally, this impact assessment has been presented, and I believe that society is advocating it – for Corona has just brought with it that people in Austria and also in Europe want more regional food, and that we are discussing more food, more medicines, more self-sufficiency in Europe. That's the right way. I believe that one of the major challenges in the future is how we in Europe secure food for people – food with Austrian and European foods, which are naturally produced sustainable and climate-friendly and are in harmony with nature. Less plant protection and less fertilisation do not automatically mean more biodiversity. There are a number of scientific studies that highlight this critically, and I am very much in favour of discussing this field of tension together with science: How can we safeguard domestic nutrition and at the same time protect biodiversity and become independent as a country and as a continent? To this end, I am critical of the Green Deal – even if the Green Deal suddenly presents nuclear power as renewable energy. So we need this critical debate. I therefore also come to the second pillar of these common policies in addition to the common agricultural policy: the European regional policy, whose objective in the past and today is to bring weaker regions economically to the level of the stronger regions, thus strengthening social, economic and social cohesion. These successful programmes will continue. This is where Minister Köstinger negotiated very well because there is solid funding for the European Regional Fund, the Social Fund, the Agricultural Fund and also for the transitional fund towards a climate-friendly economy. I think this is very central, because Austria has benefited from it. Since EU accession, 31 billion euros have been invested in this country and 850 000 jobs have been created. The Burgenland, which was at the time such a disadvantaged region, became a Objective 1 area, a total of €5.2 billion was invested and 35,000 jobs were created. The Burgenland, which had a pick-up process, grew by 13 percent more than other federal states. This means that regional policy has had a meaning and an effect. If we celebrate 100 years of Burgenland this year, we can maintain that the Burgenland was structurally disadvantaged and has managed the pick-up process. We can be proud of this because it was a common effort. The Federal Government and Parliament have become active. In my opinion, the EUR 2.5 billion package is also an important part of a regional policy to support. Broadband development has been mentioned as helping the regions. Finally, I also believe that the eco-social tax reform is a driving force for regional development, because it is particularly important to support peripheral regions. In this sense, we shall vote in favour of this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e40702	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e40724	Mr President. Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Mrs. Minister! Today, if you are proudly shivering breasts as a Minister of Tourism proclaiming anything, you can't really feel yourself in part – that's a real scandal! [[Abg. Prince: Well, well!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is nice that you are present at least today, because yesterday at the urgent request to the corona chaos you have, as so often, pressed yourself to take responsibility for this – also for the current travel warnings that make winter tourism almost impossible. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] In vain, scandalous and far from reality – these are the words that countless entrepreneurs from the gastro and tourism industry tell me about you and the current corona situation with great despair. [[Abg. Baumgartner:... on the road?]] Since you could not give us any information about concrete, bitterly necessary measures and corona aid during the budget debate, we thought: Well, maybe we'll learn something new about the OTS. With horror, I found: The only thing that comes to your mind today, while the whole winter tourism is being carried to the grave, is: “New regular seasoning scheme creates planning security for tourism”. – For which tourism, Mrs. Minister? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Salzmann.]] You can't take yourself seriously anymore. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] If you are in an economic region where 500 million people live, where there are countries where youth unemployment is over 25 percent, can that be the solution of everything? – Yes, do you not understand that there is a problem of payment and training in this sector and that is only a little bit of a make-up on big problems? Thousands stand before the shards of their existence. [[Abg. Belakovich:... allusion?]] If you ask for the extension of the hardness fund, give three answers. Answer one – and I would like to thank you very much for having just repeated it: I'm not responsible. [[Interference of Federal Minister Köstinger.]] Now I'll explain something to you: There's something like that, that is, cell phone. There you can not only write whatsapps, but there you can also call other ministers and agree. [[Call the ÖVP:Are you narrative!]] Then there are laptops – if you don't walk them in the wagerl, you can write e-mails and accord yourself. – Apparently not made everything! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The second answer is: The EU still has to approve it. By the end of the year, the extension of the hardness fund is absolutely possible without additional authorisation. The third answer is: unforeseeable. Every renowned scientist in this country has predicted more precisely than any three-day weather forecast that we will have to expect up to 15 000 infected people at the end of November. You didn't do anything. Please take a break and do not continue to drive this country along with its hard-working entrepreneurs to the wall! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Your own supporters turn their heads off from you. The ÖHV shows itself inconceivable. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Yes, about your speech we are unscrupulous!]] There's a lack of everything. Now you can't tell me, ladies and gentlemen, that the Austrian Hoteliers' Association is a side-organisation of the SPÖ! We really don't want to come that far. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All your promises are not worth a cent. [[Abg. Michael Hammer:.... Worms!]] Even if billions of aid packages are tied up again, which we will have to agree to, because people can't do anything about it, every cent that will have to be poured out is proof of your inconceivable failure, Mrs. Minister. Planning security is a word you apparently do not know. You destroy entire existence with your mismanagement. If you have character, make the way for someone who can! [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] You've done Austria enough. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e40889	Members of Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e40936	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As we have heard in the debate so far, the issue of the common agricultural policy in Europe, or the national design of it, from 2023 onwards, is all relevant. More than EUR 1 607 million from the national budget flow into the CAP funding framework each year. This sounds like a lot, especially since it is still doubled by the European Union. Nevertheless, the amount of disbursement has hardly changed since the introduction or accession of Austria to the European Union. Not only these payments, but also food prices have hardly changed at this time. There is probably no other industry in which the cold progression has hit as hard as in agriculture. The cold progression on the one hand, the heat days on the other – the past season has set a sad record: The droughts, hails and floods have caused damage at an inconceivable height. The real threat to us farmers, Mr Schmiedlechner, is certainly not a farm-to-fork strategy or higher environmental standards or more animal protection, on the contrary, the real threat to our workshop is and remains under the open sky, unless we do anything about climate change. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Maintaining our natural capital – such as soil, air and water – must be a top priority in all areas of agriculture. We simply don't need to worry about our rural structures any more when the three-field economy of the future is called: withered, paralyzed, embroiled. Instead of defending a system that has so far only driven structural change and has taken away more than 3,000 jobs annually in rural areas for decades, we need a master plan of agriculture, a roadmap that is correlated with society, which not only leads our natural capital soil but also our natural capital farmers and farmers into a future. I see the villages in which the largest farmer leases and manages the land of his former five colleagues, even now. The result is not just a departure of the people from rural regions, the result is less than five scatter gardens, as a farm simply cannot manage it alone. Five scatter gardens less means: Thousands of insects and pollinators are less likely to make countless songbirds less and so on and so on. It can be contained in an environmental programme, which, if no one is outside, we have nothing to do with it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why I would like to ask you, Mrs Minister, in the sense of all of us: Make sure that the funding is relocated to the still small-structured plants. As for the economy, SMEs are the backbone, so are the small-scale structures in agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e40997	Mr Hauser is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e41018	Mr President. Minister! I got myself yesterday – are you already missing something? – in the section on tourism, I would like to talk today about agriculture. [[Abg. Stögmüller: Where are the...?]] However, I very much regret the disastrous development for Austrian tourism following the government's permanent lockdown last year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] Since 2. Unfortunately, the Austrian tourism of last year is experiencing a disaster again, because the government has been running the wrong policy for months. I only recall the debate with the other parties' tourism speakers. I strongly pointed out a month ago that this government's corona policy will fail. I have been pointing out since September that the government's corona policy is wrong. It is too little to hoe and slander against unvaccinated persons. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You must finally accept that not the inaccurate are the problem, but that your policy is the problem and does not regulate the matter! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Upper Noster]] That's really a disaster! But today I am talking about agriculture, because I and because we want to make a positive contribution to the saving of the alpine economy. The budget in agriculture will not be useful at all if the wolves endanger and empty agriculture, the alms industry. This does not help if farmers no longer drive up when tourism is damaged and society is harmed. This is a real disaster. Today, I am giving the ÖVP the opportunity to make a request to support a request from us in fact. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] What is the situation of the alpine economy and agriculture? – A question answered by Mrs Geessler, a very recent one, dated 18.10., says – to the question: “How many Wolfrisse were there in 2020, 2019 and 2018?” –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] The figures exploded until August: in the sheep from 125 to 294, in the goats from eight to 27, in the cattle from one to eight, so the situation is a disaster. The figures are much higher, of course, with the consequence that the farmers no longer order the pastures and drive off early. In this way we have to face an immense loss of culture, which first meets the farmers primarily, but of course also tourism, and we have to intervene there. Further in this answer: How many wolves are there at present? – Mrs. Minister says there are about 40 wolves. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] There is a pack in Allentsteig and there are moving individual wolves that are actually the problem. I'm asking: Well, what can you do, you might be able to reduce the protection status? What does the Green Minister Geessler say? – ‘I do not intend to withdraw from the protection status laid down by Union law.’ On my question, what are we to do then, the Minister, says that one could possibly take these wolves on a case-by-case basis. What does that mean? – There is a body in Tyrol, a commission of four experts. Until they make a decision, weeks pass until this decision is implemented by the government, days pass again. A wolf may then be removed and then the WWF’s complaint against this withdrawal comes and the Landesverwaltungsgericht gives the right to this complaint, so there is no fire of a problem wolf. This policy will fail! That is why, in the past, we have tabled a request that has been repeatedly rejected by the ÖVP and the Greens, and that is what people need to know outside. It was about – I read before –: “The Federal Government is invited to take necessary measures to ensure active wolf management in Austria, as well as the removal of problem wolves (by changing the protection status [...]) from four to five “to ensure the existence of the domestic alpine economy and cultural landscape and to guarantee the safety of the population in wolf-like settlement areas.” This was postponed in the committees and rejected in plenary, so the ÖVP rejected it. Today and here we are bringing forward another motion for a resolution, based on the proposal of the Association of Weidezone Tyrol. I would like to thank the Obmann Stefan Brugger and his colleagues, who are really doing excellent extra-party work. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] What's that about? – This request concerns: We want the same right that exists in Finland and Sweden, where reindeer farming is protected as a culture of the traditional population – the seeds. The wolves are taken there so that reindeer breeding can be maintained. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] We say that we have had the same tradition in the Alps for 6,000 years. We also need to protect our pastures. If this is possible in Finland and Sweden, this must also be possible in Austria. I call for Parliament to support this initiative. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[15:58]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e41199	The application is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation as it has also been properly submitted. The next item is the speech by Mr Obernoster. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e41223	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Mrs. von der SPÖ! If I know something in life, I trust to say that loud, then it's how tourism works and how to make a budget. Your speech - - No, it does not hurt, it must hurt you and hurt those who have listened to you, I say that quite clearly, because you have zero idea of it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Erasim.]] [[New call for tender Erasim]] I'm sorry I'm just saying that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ask the tourists what programmes the Federal Minister of Finance and the Government has put in place. Go out to tourism companies and ask them if they were satisfied or not. This government and our Commissioners, Mr Köstinger, really carried the tourism industry through the crisis. I'm telling you something more about what responsibility is, because that's always said. [[Abg. Erasim: Carry on tombs!]] – That’s not true! The situation is very serious right now, I know it myself. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Listen to me! The situation is too serious to pull off a show program. 5 billion euros are in the budget's empowerment, you know that. We do not need to reintroduce all last year's aid programmes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] – So I expect one of them, too, from a lady: If a lady speaks, I'll let her talk out. [[Abg. Belakovich: You are not a lady, Mr Colleague.]] And from you: If a gentleman speaks, let the Lord speak in the sense of equality. That's what I'm quite clear about. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] The tourism programmes stand. And if something really comes that we can't estimate today, so that tourism gets back into such a crisis, then you just have to get these programs out of the drawer. Budgetary is that in the empowerment. This government is not unplanned. Mr Hauser, I would like to say one thing to you: They are tourist speakers of the Freedom Party and chairman of our Tourism Committee. I'm reading something to you now, because you don't believe me anyway: ‘Massive to the disastrous situation, FPÖ carries with its cheap agitation at [...]. ,The party has nothing better to do than undermine the vaccination morals from political calcula, while watching the government put its energy into the repair of this sabotage. [...]Properties Even massively in the second total damage of the winter season in a row and to blame the others for it is not responsible.” – This is not my case, that is from a broadcast of the Austrian Hoteliers Association. [[Abg. Belakovich: Is this the ÖVP party newspaper?]] [[Call at the FPÖ: Who wrote this?]] [[Abg. Belakovich: The ÖVP Party News!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Take note of this! Help tourism and don't harm him! That's political responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e41352	Mr President, I am sorry, Madam President-in-Office of the Council. I was now surprised that Mr Obernosterer was finished so quickly. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e41373	Mr President. High house! Values Advisors, dear Advisors! I do not want to take part in the debate on what is going on well in tourism or what is not going well. I think the facts are on the table, and the entrepreneurs would have wanted more clarity and, above all, much more preparation. – It would have been avoidable. What would have been avoidable would have been to present here again a budget for agriculture, which I would like to go into briefly, which is clearly uninspired and a little bit of it. I know many of you don't deal with agriculture every day, come from another area. I also have different circles in which I move, not only the rural environment. If you talk and discuss in other circles and talk about agriculture, it always says: Well, it's 2 percent, whatever, yes, it's not that dramatic now. I really want to oppose this very, very consciously. It's not meaty. It is not just this 2%, but it is really a key economic sector, and we must take it seriously. It really needs a very big thought and a very big vision for the future. It is not just about the entrepreneurs who work in agriculture, it is about our food production, and it is about much more. It is about climate change with all its impact on us, and of course it is about the landscape, and that is what we are going to be in tourism again. That is why I say that we really have to take this issue very seriously. And that is why I'm sorry, and I'm getting to the budget that there's no future in this budget either. It's on it everywhere, but it's just not inside. One of the very, very big and important questions that belong to the answer is: What is your vision, Mrs Federal Minister, where is agriculture to be in 20 years, and, above all, how is she going to develop there? That's exactly the answer you've been holding around for years. There's nothing to do with looking at the budget. There is this further sausage, which can also be seen so well in the budget. Quite clear: If you don't know where you want to go, you keep doing what you've always done, and it won't be better. The questions you have to ask are the farmers ask themselves every day. They ask themselves: What do you want us to live on? That is the central question in this area. What do we do in five years, what do we do in ten years, what do we do in 15 years? There is a global market in which the Austrian farmer walks around with its products. This is nice and good for consumers, partly also for trade, but it is not easy for farmers who simply have production costs that are very, very much higher than in other countries, without a support system. That's just a fact. You just have to stand down and say in all honesty: Austrian agriculture is not competitive and it will not be in the future. That's why I'm saying: It needs a vision, it needs big answers. Where do we want to go with agriculture? The market will not regulate it. We have put on the table many proposals for this. This is quite benevolent on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day; at least not much of it is assumed here. In fact, it simply needs solutions for three major areas that need to be looked at most urgently. I won't leave you there. It takes a lot more, but I would start personally. This starts with the funding system. With this you have to go away from the crowd and to the quality. Everything else makes sense in Austria. We also need to start converting the service catalogue. The question is: What are the benefits of agriculture? This requires a very clear catalogue with the costs behind it. Then the farmer is no longer the bitter, but the one who comes and says: That's my performance I've done for society, and that's the bill for it. That's how it should look from my point of view. We clearly need to create the framework conditions for this, and it simply needs debureaucratisation. As a third point, I would like to try to create new sources of income for agriculture. And it's so loud that you can't really hear it, but you're doing it anyway: Energy production would be a huge area, a huge chance for the farmers, but also there will be blocked, especially from the peasantry, as I hear. Let me conclude with the following: Josef Riegler built, shaped, presented and brought into the country in 1986 the eco-social market economy. In 1987 he became a Minister of Agriculture. That's what you see: At that time visions in the ÖVP were apparently still allowed, yes even desired. [[Abg. Sieber: Even today!]] He even became Federal Party Minister and Vice-Chancellor. This seems to be no longer desirable and not permitted; at least it is not done. I'm very sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e41410	Mrs Neßler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e41431	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers and Seers! We are now writing the year two in which the budget is dominated by two major major crises, the pandemic and the climate crisis. The UN Climate Change Conference in Glasgow has just ended, and we know that the result is very thin, if not disappointing. Nevertheless, or precisely that is why we need to continue our efforts or actually intensify our efforts to achieve the Paris climate objectives. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I don't stress this for the first time: Especially tourism is heavily affected by the climate crisis. We know the importance of tourism for us economically. It is heavily affected by the climate crisis and it will become much, much more in the coming years. Those who ignore this now will be among the losers. Therefore, any investment in climate change measures is also an investment in the survival of tourism. To mention a few examples: Especially tourism companies have benefited from the eco-social tax reform with direct measures of clean heating and thermal renovation. This, of course, benefits our tourist companies, the hotels et cetera. Switching to sustainable mobility is a great opportunity for our tourism, especially for domestic tourism. A measure that has not yet been discussed in this context is the climate ticket. It leads to a lot more animation on the weekend to go somewhere, and this is especially useful for local tourism. I am convinced that companies that create a good arrival and a good departure – the first and last kilometers – will benefit even more if they manage to respond to the potential clientele and work out special climate ticket packages. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Together with the truly ambitious expansion programme for the public, this will be a rail in a sustainable future for our tourism. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If we want a sustainable, future-fit, but also social tourism, then we have to adapt federal funding, or – I put it differently – we need to: We have many challenges in tourism and essentially, in the final effect we have two possibilities. Either we are now constantly knocking on some emergency solutions from the ground in crisis situations, or we could already be foresightful and make a positive future, because the change comes somehow, the question will only be what we are doing out of it. [[call to the FPÖ]] When I speak of sustainable tourism, it is not about all the greens – not afraid, Mr. Hörl – that we do not destroy our own business base and that we write black numbers with green ideas for the future. [[Rejoicing with Green MEPs]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To colleagues Hauser – he's not here right now –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner]] I have tried to listen to you today, and also yesterday, when you went to tourism – ah, there is colleague Hauser! – have spoken. I really tried to listen. But I ask myself the question: Where is tourism policy at FPÖ up-to-date? – On the one hand, the winter season is to take place, on the other hand, you do not want to take any corona measures. That's what I'm asking myself: In which world is this going to go out?, and above all: What do you want to offer the tourists? – In the final effect, this would only be one: I wantsurvive in the search area with all-inclusive, with the triagens in front of the national hospitals, maybe as a give-away a degorging agent and a tourism campaign that you can then call Highway to Hell, but more is not going on. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] But now really to winter tourism: I do not think anyone has any current or general interest in – I assume now – that this season is the second time this season is bluffed. But if you want a winter love – that's what the current tourism campaign means – not to be a winter flop, you have to make sure that we get the infection numbers down, clearly, and there we also need to listen to the experts. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But I am going to do so, and I am very clearly saying that, in any case, first and foremost, the health of the people. That was once our common premise. We need to get back there, all together and as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e41529	Mr Köchl has been reported to speak. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e41550	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Mrs Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As one of the first of the ÖVPs to speak about agriculture, colleague jewelry miners have said that a farmer with 20 hectares in Austria can live very well. If ten colleagues come out of the EIA after that to talk about agriculture, this corresponds approximately to the number of farms in full acquisition in Austria that have to be locked. [[Abg. Prince: He didn't say that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Berlakovich]] I note, therefore, that the ÖVP brings out a Member's speech per holding locked up. It's not an agricultural policy, it's my rule. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is not an agricultural policy: Mrs. Minister, if you're in the election campaign in Carinthia, you're the fighter for the small rural family farms. [[Abg. Hörl: Is she too!]] [[Abg. Salzmann: Is she too!]] I also believe that you are fighting for it and that you are doing it, but if you are doing the agricultural policy in Austria and if you are doing the EU policy, it is quite different and different. In Austria there is already more agricultural industry, and in the EU exactly the opposite is being voted on by what would be mistakenly important for our farms, namely that we go here and say that the 20 hectares are doubled for the small farmers, for example in these CAP regulations, and that is what we do, and only then do we give the support. [[Interference by Federal Minister Köstinger]] [[Call to the ÖVP: Such a fool, that's not true at all!]] [[Federal Minister Köstinger: We do that!]] No controls are carried out in the agricultural industry. There is probably a law – it has been established – but it is not controlled. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is a nonsense!]] - It won't be controlled. I believe that only those who have also been subject to control should receive agricultural support. [[Abg. Berlakovich: That's not true! That's not what you're saying!]] Then, of course, there will be the truth and it will just fit. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: That's not even the SPÖ!]] We should go here and really look at that. You can't just bring people to Austria and say: Well, they don't have to have the same social standards as we do or can't reach the same wages. – That, I think, doesn't fit: This is how agriculture will never work. I am aware that for every farmer who locks in full acquisition in Austria, today an ÖVP mandatar comes out and speaks.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e41701	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e41722	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! As a telecommunications speaker, the chapter on agriculture, regions and tourism includes a very important budget item and, as I believe, an important item for rural areas. This concerns broadband promotion. I think it is necessary to talk about the importance and urgency of broadband development. In the meantime – at the latest since Corona, Homeschooling, Home Office – it is known and recognized. Therefore, support for broadband development is also a very important concern of this Federal Government, especially in rural, under-supply areas where the market is not or insufficiently developed. We want to create equal opportunities between city and country. This is a very important concern for us. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The previous expansion programme shows that the demand for support is very high. Since 2015, 1,500 projects have been funded with 500 funding participants who have invested around 2.5 billion euros. These are private companies, which are state associations, state infrastructure, companies and municipalities that expand directly on site. It has benefited 1.1 million people. Thus and also with the 5G expansion we can soon supply 42 percent of households with gigabitable connections. Clearly, for our goal of ensuring comprehensive mobile and fixed gigabit connections by 2030, there is still a lot to be done. This budget also provides the basis for further expansion steps to be taken. Additional 624 million euros will be invested by 2025. That is to say, a total of more than EUR 1.2 billion is estimated to go into broadband development. A short time for security research – also an essential part of the budget in this chapter – is: We also invest 7.5 million euros in this. We have already heard it in the previous chapter, the issue of Internet crime is getting stronger and more important. We are also investing in this respect. We want to invest in general security, but also in the security awareness of citizens. We want to disseminate knowledge and promote the development and application of security technologies. Each cent, which flows into security technology, security research and broadband, is thus well-invested money.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e41768	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e41790	Mr President! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate Seers! The topics of agriculture, regions and tourism are particularly important to me as forest-fourthers. Unfortunately, the Waldviertel is constantly being treated stepmotherly, with the support that would be most necessary for this. The draft budget provides for EUR 3.37 billion for agriculture, regions and tourism. Compared to the previous year, this means an increase of 3.2 percent. There is absolutely no mention of a proper increase in the budget. The last two Corona years have been an absolutely great challenge for tourism. The current decision of the Federal Government, according to which only vaccines and genes in the hotels are allowed to remain, makes the winter season that many so hoped for very limited and challenging again. The resulting losses are very painful and cannot be recovered for these farms. That is why it would have been extremely important to make a higher budget available to tourism in 2022. According to the report of the APA, Minister of Finance Blümel has dated 8. On 1 November 2021, a new corona aid for the plants was first rejected by the 2G rule. This can hardly be surpassed by cynicism if finance minister Blümel points to very good economic growth as a reason. Now to agriculture: The payments for the forest fund are budgeted at 55.1 million euros lower compared to the previous year. That is absolutely not understandable for me. The forest fund shall, inter alia, have the following tasks: Reimbursement of birch beetle damage, reduction of borch beetle infestation, development of climatic and species-rich forests and strengthening the use of the raw material wood. In my opinion, the forest funds originally donated with 350 million euros should be increased, as only around 60 million euros will come directly to the farmers affected by borch beetles. The remaining EUR 290 million will be used mainly for measures used by the saw industry and for research purposes. We urgently need measures to ensure that fewer wood is imported from abroad, for one thing is clear: We have more than enough wood in our own country, only the farmers find very often no customers. This also has far-reaching consequences for consumers. Thus, the firewood offered in the Austrian building markets does not come from its own country, but more often from the Balkans and Eastern Europe, whereby it can be said that this wood does not have the quality of our own domestic firewood at Weitem. It is not sufficiently dried, among other things, and due to the long transport routes it has no such good ecological footprint. We would have more than enough wood in our own country, and our farmers needed every support in these difficult times. The absolute wrong way for me is to tighten the belt now with our farmers and forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e41829	The rapporteur was Mr Brandweiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e41850	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at the visitor gallery and at home in front of the screens! With this budget, we want to enable recovery, stability and sustainability for Austria. As a civil servant of my party, I am, of course, very glad that we have again shown sufficient financial resources in the budget for civil service. Compared to the previous year, it is even an increase of 3.4 percent. Civil service in Austria is essential. This also confirms the new study of the Vienna University of Economics. The result shows clearly and clearly that civil service has a positive economic and social impact of around 1 billion euros on our beautiful country. 1 billion euros – an unimaginable amount that confirms the importance of civil service. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But, of course, civil service is not just about money. Young men take part in high social competence and many positive experiences. Our Federal Minister therefore rightly calls him human and heart formation. This is also confirmed by the figures in the study. In concrete terms, 90 percent of respondents indicated that they would again opt for civil service, and nearly 73 percent recognized a high sense of meaning for society. That's what the young men tell me again and again on my visits to the services. I like to remember a visit to the care and care centre of Mautern, where young men then even do their internship in the facility. It was even one who started there as a full-time employee. I also like to remember a young man who told us that in his spare time he welded a drink holder for a resident so that she can drink without any help, which is of course for us. This also shows me how committed the young men are. Civil service is also a door opener for the honorary office, because more than 30 percent of young men remain as volunteers. For me, this is another proof of the importance of military service. Finally, of course, I would like to thank all the staff in the facilities, especially those who make a great job in the Civil Service Agency, because they are responsible for the resolution. Of course, I also thank our competent minister, Elisabeth Köstinger, for the good cooperation, but above all also for the fact that the funds needed are re-enacted in the budget. Of course, the greatest thanks goes to the young men who, with their commitment to civil service, make an essential and indispensable contribution to our beautiful country. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e41908	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e41929	Mr President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! In the budget of subheading 42: Agriculture, regions and tourism, we can record a plus. This is good and very necessary for our rural regions and for our agriculture and forestry. We from the People's Party want our rural regions to remain viable and to be able to develop further in the future. The same applies to agriculture. It needs stability and a sustainable upturn in value added. Appreciation is beautiful and important, but there is nothing wrong with it alone. Our agriculture has not always been easy, we have already heard it: Extreme weather events, as we have experienced this year; in some sectors there is a certain tension due to the price situation; the income situation is often not intoxicating either. That is why our approach is to support and support our agriculture as much as possible. If one sees that in Austria we have the latest agriculture in the EU – we have about twice as many young farm leaders as in the EU section – then it must You're saying that's not about it either. This requires the right framework conditions, and planning and legal certainty is needed for the sustainable development of our rural family farms. A very important component of this is the common agricultural policy. We are also very concerned about the safety and the future of our local farms and, above all, young agriculture in Austria. Important measures are, for example, the top-up in the first pillar and the establishment premium in the second pillar, which gives very important impetus to our domestic agriculture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is necessary for agriculture and rural regions to be safe, even when it comes to protecting against natural hazards. Especially in the field of wildlife and avalanche cultivation, it is very important that measures be preferred in the next few years; especially in Salzburg, we were very much affected this year. Additional funds from the Federal Government amounting to EUR 20 million will be used in this context. This concerns, for example, the Schmittenbach in Zell am See, the Tamsweger wild streams, protective forest measures in Fusch or also the Oberpinzgau. For us the protection of human life, settlements, infrastructure, as well as our agricultural land, which is very important for food safety and agricultural production is essential. We have a clear focus on the quality of life of the rural area. We have a budget that provides security, but also points to the future. The future depends on what we are doing today, and that is why we are actually doing something for our agriculture and rural areas from the Farmers' Federation and the People's Party and the Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e41980	Members of the European Parliament have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e42002	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Yes, we are negotiating the tourism budget today. I can thank you for increasing payments in tourism – ÖHT, ÖW and all the necessary things are strengthened. According to the motto Strengthening and sustainable development of the regions of the tourist location Austria you have acted well. Let's take a look at the tourism balance: 14 billion euros in revenue – about what the federal state, the city of Vienna as a household – has, 8 billion euros of foreign exchange surplus in a normal year, VAT: 1.7 billion euros, regional value added at 89 percent – there is a broad impact of tourism – and 243,000 people are employed in good years. Since, I think, your commitment, Mrs. Federal Minister, is very thanks, and I see you are with great heart and with great commitment. This year, however, local tourism has, of course, also reached the biggest challenge at all: We have been thrown back far behind 2013 – 20 percent less – and in Austria we have lost over 50,000 employees we are still fighting about today. Only the loss of value in the last winter season was 10 billion euros, in Tyrol 5 billion euros, which corresponds to the household budget of the federal state of Tyrol, in order to bring a relationship here. Now we have tried to ensure safety with a winter regulation and all possibilities, but unfortunately God is developing the situation again catastrophicly – some are yelling after the next lockdown. I think that is the absolutely wrong way; I think we have gone the right way. I think the hope for the coming winter season, she lives. We have restored travel freedom in Europe with 2G, the internal market is open to travel. That, of course, we have a real disappointment with the students regarding Germany and that we have an introduction of a quarantine, that is true. Mrs Erasim, if you blame the Minister for this, I reply: We have no power in the German territory, the screams you could have saved yourself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The following is particularly true of my colleagues from the Greens: We also have other problems open – students, national students. When Vienna students come to me to Gerlos, I can't transport them. To the seasonal kidneys: We've been with the seasonal kidneys for six weeks. Now I hear there's a solution for the regular season eggs. Okay, that's good for city hotels. ==References== January; there was an agreement. It should work for December now; it is not yet done, but it should actually work. Now the question of the seasonal quota is raised next year. To travel agencies: The package travel directive forces us to assume liability; we also discuss it for weeks. I would like to thank Mr Obernosterer and Mr Schwarz for providing a solution tomorrow. New problems have emerged: In England, vaccinations are only carried out from 16 years of age. This means that children aged 12 to 16 do not meet 3G, and as regards the Netherlands, there is a problem that there was a giant vertebra in the Dutch media through a statement by the Minister of Health in the Dutch media, because Austria from 3. This protection is no longer granted. Dutch travel agencies begin to cancel contracts, and on the market is a giant theatre. - That's it. There is now a proposal that the Ministry of Tourism has delivered to the Ministry of Health. There everything is regulated: that students also work in holiday periods of the Ninja Pass, among children and young people from Germany and the Netherlands, also the subject of Johnson & Johnson. I hope that this proposal will now be brought to the fore quickly and quickly. I'm right, Mrs Neßler: We hope to make the future positive. Let's solve the current things tomorrow and quickly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e42072	Mr Hechenberger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e42093	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate spectators here and also at home! Thank you very much for the budget, Mrs Bundesminister. The Austrian peasant families know they can rely on you. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Agriculture, farmers' families do a lot for the population. I am allowed to start with the topic of cultivated, intact cultural landscape, a sufficient biodiversity, and for that there are appropriate means for the common agricultural policy, and I think that, as we are now in the final discussions and negotiations, I really think we should also say to our esteemed Federal Minister Sebastian KurzThank you, who in Brussels has been very successful in not accepting the minus, but has turned it into a plus. Therefore, thanks to Sebastian In the short term – over the next seven years – we can really distribute a larger budget volume. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In all cases, we want to continue the path of sustainable agriculture, organic farming, sustainable food production, the environment programme, and I think we are on the right track. We will also provide the appropriate foundations. However, what I lack in this context is the following: We are always talking of appreciation, but often there is a lack of value added. What's happening right now? – Currently, the production costs of the food have increased dramatically, they continue to rise, but until now we do not manage to apply this to farmers' product prices as well. There is my clear appeal to trade, not only to pass on higher product prices to consumers, but also to the producer! It also needs a fair share of the value chain in terms of the production of sustainable food. Very clear appeal: The farmer needs value creation and not just appreciation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One last topic that I personally feel is the development this summer in Tyrol. There were over 400 cracks from large predators, and I'm telling you one thing: We're at the beginning of the problem. The rate of growth of Wolf and Bär is dramatic, and on the one hand we need support and we have to give massive support to the countries, because in the end the countries are in the legislation to implement it. We must support them in a massive way, but on the other hand we must also actively discuss in this Chamber the need to join forces for active wolf management in Brussels. We want to secure the future alm economy. Coexistence is not possible because of the whole situation, and therefore it is quite clear to me: We want the alpine economy! The alpine economy is the basis for tourism, is the basis for leisure sports, is also a guarantee for the reduction of natural hazards, and for this reason we have a lot of work in front of us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One thing, in my opinion, is already significant when the colleagues of the opposition go here and say how important the peasant families are. One thing is clear: If you analyze things more precisely in the debate, look at them more closely, then it is always the case that the accusation comes immediately: The farmers get too much, there too much! – The opposition thus speaks of problems that the government is trying to solve problems in the sense of the peasant families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e42169	The rapporteur was Mr Großbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e42190	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Today, we are discussing the tourism budget, and of course I would like to stress once again how much tourism and culture are interconnected and interconnected in Austria. Before Corona, 70 percent of the Vienna tourists have said that they are coming to Vienna because of the culture, and in all the federal states we have festivals and festivals, which are of course also a great tourist magnet. That is why I would like to thank you very much, Mrs Bundesminister, so that you have so far so well supported this area with Coronahilfe. In particular, I would like to mention the organiser protection shield, which is still active and for which 95 million euros are planned over the next two years. Thank you for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With regard to the current 2022 budget, I would particularly like to draw attention to the increase in the budget for the Austrian advertising, which I consider particularly important – a plus of 4 million euros for 2022 to 28 million euros – it is the first time since 2002 that this budget will be increased, and the next four years it will be 22 million euros. Why is that so important right now? – Of course, we want to remain in communication now, in this situation, even with the target markets, whose inhabitants we would like to repeat again, in intensive contact exchange. Of course, the qualitative development of the tourist site Austria is also an important, major concern of the Austrian advertising. Of course, that plays – hopefully! – in the next few years, the art, cultural and creative sector will again have a positive impact on it, especially in combination with the significantly increased cultural budget. As I reported yesterday, there is a plus of 61 million euros in this area. So I think these areas can and will play well together in the next few years, and that will be very, very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e42241	Mr Kühberger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e42263	3.4 billion euros, a plus of 104 million euros! – Mr President, I would like to thank you for your support. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! It was my concern now to forward these figures. Not that I'm afraid I forget it, no, but because they're very impressive: 3.4 billion euros – and thus more 104 million euros – for agriculture, for our regions and for tourism! As a farmer, I would like to highlight two areas that are particularly important to me today. One is the increase in the agricultural budget for our agricultural and forestry schools, which are quite, very important places outside our regions, which work for the future of rural areas and which, with this new budget increase, mainly implement important priorities such as research learning or digitisation. The second point, which I think is also important, is, of course, the compensatory payments, the agricultural measures. We must not forget that if we find high-quality food on our shelves at low prices, these compensation payments will only make it possible. Our farmers – and we must not forget that – who are doing a great job throughout Austria, must also be able to live from their work. Unfortunately, it is not possible for them to live from the sale of their products, and that is why we need compensation, ladies and gentlemen. Our farmers – we have already heard from the previous speakers – also do more: They provide an intact nature, a variety of species. That means that these funds for agriculture – I am firmly convinced – are very beneficial to all of us. But I am not only Bauer, I am also mayor, and in this context I would like to address briefly the following, because next year we have a big flood protection project: There, too, the budget increased. I also address the urban water industry briefly – I also have a project there, for example: Channel construction, expansion, renovation. It is important that we have made 290 million euros for our communities in the budget next year. Summary: I am very proud of this budget because it is a solid basis for our rural family farms at home, but also for the rural communities. Above all, this budget shows that our Federal Government is a major concern for rural areas and our communities and, above all, agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e42302	Mr Lindinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e42323	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! As Mr Kühberger just mentioned, the budget for UG 42 is really outstanding. With a plus of more than 100 million euros, it shows how important the farm, regions and tourism sector is. The farmers work under the highest standards, produce food of the highest quality and thus cover the table of all Austrians three times a day. The products that experience this appreciation also need the necessary added value. Unfortunately, this is not the case in many sectors of agriculture due to various circumstances. Our farmers, however, are entrepreneurs like everyone else and need to be able to operate in the same way, i.e. they must be able to live on their products as well. That is why it is so necessary that we finally implement the designation of origin discussed for months. Mr Mückstein, may I ask you to implement the second and third regulations this year. We may thus create the necessary value added for the food from Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are currently discussing the common agricultural policy. The National Strategy Plan has to be presented by the end of the year – already addressed by several previous speakers. Thanks to the great commitment of Sebastian Kurz,our Federal Minister, Elli Köstinger - – – Yes, Sebastian Kurz has also negotiated the budget of the common agricultural policy significantly at EU level, and it has also been increased for the next period. [[Cheerfulness and lively calls at the SPÖ]] Thanks to the use of our Minister and the Austrian Farmers' Federation, we have also been able to implement measures with the common agricultural policy, which farmers can also put into practice. I am particularly concerned about the practical nature of this. Our farmers are not climate sinners, as is often described in the media, but they are much more the climate protectors. The CO2 binding works accordingly in agriculture and forestry, and our farmers work with and in nature and not against nature. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another issue that concerns young farmers – my colleague Carina Reiter has already mentioned – is: We have many young farmers in Austria, who are farm managers, and we have managed together with the Ministry to create incentives in many areas. I only call the top-up in the first column, which could be ensured in the new period, or the branch premium new, which creates many incentives. These incentives are necessary in order to continue to take over the farms in the future so that young farmers have visions to invest and thus also to ensure food production. We are in favour of sufficient security of supply in Austria. We'll take care as far as we can. is to ensure that the framework conditions are therefore stable. We are fighting for not only to show appreciation for the products produced in Austria, but also to allow for a corresponding added value. That's what we're working for.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e42396	Mr Stark has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e42417	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are discussing the budget these days. Today and now the focus is on the regions, agriculture and other things. I should like to comment on the regions and to address two facets, two areas of great importance to the regions. One is the European Leader programme, the second is the broadband expansion, which Mr Himmelbauer has already devoted himself to. Let's go to the Leader section: In 77 Leader regions across Austria, people who have dedicated themselves to this topic, the topic of rural development. In 77 regions of Austria, people, most of them volunteer, who want to develop rural areas along a common strategy, and do so to ensure that this area remains a viable area, so that this space is there for people and remains simply attractive. Mrs. Minister, I know you're a fan of the Leader project. That is why I am promoting this because the 2022 budget provides for a 15 percent increase compared to the 2020 budget, which was already pictured in 2021. I am very glad that Leader will also find the corresponding dosage in the 2022 budget. In the next few years, for the next lead period, the budget is being renegotiated, and there is a change of up to 20 percent in the room. This would be a real strengthening, a real increase for the Leader programme, for the Leader Action Groups, for the Citizens' Party in these rural areas. Mrs Minister, I would like to congratulate you on the success of increasing the project in this area too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second area, as mentioned above, is the broadband programme: We all know how necessary digitisation is in rural areas as well. We all know how necessary it is to bring broadband to the regions. There you can only underline everything that happens in this sector. I am pleased that broadband development in the 2022 budget will have an appropriate place so that we are prepared not only for future crisis situations, but that we will further increase the importance of rural areas as a truly attractive habitat. A significant contribution has been made by broadband development. In this sense I advertise: Accept the 2022 budget! We are definitely doing so, and I am looking forward to the implementation of the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e42460	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e42482	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! It has been mentioned several times that it is very diverse areas of tasks that you have to manage in your ministry, but above all design – and that is the decisive thing. Only one sentence on civil service in addition to what Mr Brandweiner said: In the agricultural sector, civil service is in fact the prerequisite for a serious accident or death of the plant can be continued, perhaps for the next generation. – Thank you for being able to do so. The protection of the water industry from the point of view of the municipalities has already been addressed. I would also like to say a sentence on the subject of the cultivation of wildlife and avalanche: As a municipal representative, you can appreciate the valuable work of the employees. Without their support, many projects would not be feasible. The development of broadband is, as it were, a lifeline for the future in rural areas. In the past, we have talked about the routes of goods as a way of life, which is about infrastructure, transport infrastructure. Broadband is crucial for quality of life and technology. Direct payments for agriculture: Ladies and gentlemen here in this House! We should all be aware that there is no country in the Western world that does not ultimately support agriculture, the development of agriculture with direct payments. There are different models. Direct payments are nothing but support for the consumer price. If the farmers in the Western world were to receive fair prices, the food would have to be much more expensive. There are many facets in direct payments. The CAP – common agricultural policy – has already been mentioned a few times today. However, we also think of the charging of natural management difficulties, of the compensation allowance for mountain areas and disadvantaged areas or, for example, of environmental benefits. The fact is: The agricultural families bring enormous benefits to society and direct payments are, as it were, a certain fee in this respect. To the cultural landscape: The design of the cultural landscape by the rural families is actually also the best form. What this means for tourism is that we could be a philosopher for a long time. If families spend their holidays on farms, so make a holiday at the farm, then perhaps the children also have the advantage of getting to know agriculture, learning how to produce food, and as a connection arises. A sentence on forestry: I do not want to address the forest package now – this is valuable in terms of initiatives for the next years – but management is the best climate protection – that is true in the forest as well as in the meadow and in the field –, one should not simply take something out of production or out of use. A sentence was allowed on the subject of large prey grippers. Personally, I am glad that you are doing studies and that you are doing something in Austria: On what basis can one perhaps do something economically for herd protection, but where are the limits? – If we want the Wiener to go on holiday in the future to the western federal states and on a Alm can go or that the Linzer goes to the Mühlviertel, then we have to deal with the subject carefully. We must be aware: The rural families – even if they may have only 30, 50 or even only 20 sheep – have a right to get a little money for their work. Finally, simply ask all consumers: The best use for farming in Austria is to take advantage of regional and seasonal food. With our daily purchase, we decide where the trip is going. Agriculture needs support, but not only here in this House, but everywhere in Austria, and that is why I am looking for it. The budget is a good basis for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e42537	Mrs Weber is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e42560	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Agriculture needs a future. Agriculture also has a future, I am convinced of it – and why? We really have many, many young people in Austria who are very interested in agriculture and forestry in their very special and diverse expressions. This simply shows the encouraging development of the number of students in the agricultural specialist schools in Austria, and this is probably the only school system that can show rising numbers of students at the moment. With us alone in Carinthia – we have an agricultural and domestic education, also a gardening training in a total of seven locations – there was an increase from 2020 to 2021 from 1,225 students to 1,313 pupils. This is a rich plus of 88 students. Why is that so? – One reason will be certain that young people themselves believe in a future in agriculture and also in a future for agriculture. In that we must strengthen them, we are all called upon to support them as well. On the other hand, I am convinced that the teacher works very contemporary, modern, innovative, open to new, professional, but also very motivated. On this occasion I would like to thank all my colleagues in the agricultural schools from Vorarlberg to Burgenland for their work for our rural youth. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to mention: Our students stay in the region, even if they cannot enter the parental farm immediately, because the parents are still very much involved in courtwork, but go into a teaching, where they are also very popular and also very strongly asked. The economy needs our graduates. However, the teaching takes place directly in their home country, in front of their courts, and thus the young people are always present in the rural areas and are also creatively involved in this rural area – the rural area that we are all so proud of, which we all appreciate and love. What does it take for it to continue to be like that? – It needs a corresponding government, and we have it. It is known that it not only recognizes things but also supports them. With our Federal Minister Elisabeth Köstinger, we have a minister who on the one hand recognises and supports it accordingly. We heard it today: The agricultural budget can be seen, the broadband initiative, the eco-social tax reform – for all of this, we can only say and congratulate. - Thank you very much for that, Mrs. Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In conclusion: Let us continue to support our rural and rural youth! It is our future, it is our future security of supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e42616	As the last speaker, Mr Eßl.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e42637	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are talking about a budget for the entire department of 3.37 billion euros and 1.8 billion euros of it are reserved for agriculture. My great recognition, Mrs Bundesminister, dear Elisabeth Köstinger, applies to you and also to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, if I may say so, Sebastian Kurz, who has negotiated this lead in Brussels. In turn, EUR 316 million in federal funds has been channelled at EUR 1 480 000, so that a total of EUR 1.8 billion can be made available to farmers. I should like to say this very clearly and clearly to colleagues Schmiedlechner: 100 percent of this 1.8 billion euros come directly to the farmers, and not just a fraction, as you said. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Forgedlechner.]] We're not the SPÖ. In fact, the SPÖ intends to use 50 percent of these rural development funds for remote areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sir.]] [[Further call at the SPÖ: Don't vote!]] The SPÖ doesn't have so much with agriculture at all: This is where Mr Köchl comes out and claims that larger farms would not be controlled, only smaller ones. – This is absolutely wrong, because a real correction would have been necessary, but I would like to correct this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not just about figures, it is about security of supply, it is about shaping the habitat, it is about people in our country. The budget presented, based on the principles of the eco-social market economy – Joschi Riegler has actually launched it – allows one to serve the really essential needs of agriculture and forestry in Austria. It is possible that environmental services, climate change services, the provision of services by our farmers are provided accordingly. The 120 million euros in the animal welfare package, which I would like to mention as an animal welfare speaker, are also very, very positive. [[President Bures takes over the presidency.]] So thanks to the taxpayers that they make the money available, and thanks to the farmers, who by doing their work every day, provide around the clock for the preservation of the high quality of life in our country. Finally, I would like to mention one point, namely the forestry sector. There is an EU proposal that greater use should be made of land. – We know that the managed forest contributes more to climate protection, wood usage saves CO2 for decades. The forest fund, which has already been addressed, has been re-instructed with EUR 102.5 million and has not been reduced, as has been said. In total, these 350 million euros are available. Therefore, please: against EU plans and for a healthy, managed forest! – Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister, this is important for the people of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e42701	I am now no longer in the field of agriculture, regions and tourism. This is also the end of it. [[17:01:04]] UG 30: Education UG 31: Science and research
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e42734	We arrive at the UG 30: Education and the UG 31: Science and research, on which the debates take place under one. First of all, Mrs Petra Vorswinkler is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e42761	Madam President. The Minister is not yet present. Dear High House! Values Advisors! At the last meeting of the Committee on Education in October, all our requests were not accepted, on the grounds that we would still wonder what the budget is all about, which is already on the way which has failed. – I am really amazed! They present a budget as if it had never existed with Corona: too little, unambitionated, and sometimes reality far away. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It does not take into account the recommendations of experts or the needs of children, families or the thousands of educators. What's missing? – There is no additional support for missing people. Why were the funding hours not fixed until 2025 fixed? There is no money for acute help needed in the event of mental stress on children. There is no money for supervision for teachers. Only 100 of the schools with special challenges were selected. What about the rest of the 500 schools? They're swirling off in the meantime? An index of opportunities would be fairer and more targeted. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Where are the sufficient administrative and organisational resources for schools so that the educators can finally take care of their actual task again, namely the educational? And where is the money for day-to-day schools and all-day elementary education institutions? Where's the money? Where are the 1.2 billion euros used for the acquisition of power and manipulation? Many, many children and families now have better schooling and above all a better family income, as women would have had the opportunity to go to work all day long. Then there would probably no longer be more than 360 000 children at risk of poverty. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Krisper.]] I have made a new request, because this money is for them. Where is the implementation of the valid decision of the daily movement unit? There is no figure in the budget. When's that coming? Where does the School Event Outages Heart Fund remain for the school year 2021/2022? The schools were suddenly surprised at Stage 3 – parents stay at the expense. I would also like to make a request. And because I'm already at level 3, a look back to the one that just happened recently: Mr Minister, how can it be that on Sunday evening media announcements and only on Tuesday to lunch legal requirements come to schools? Two days of confusion with the teachers, at the schools: The schools were officially in stage 2 instead of level 3, where they should actually be, and an announcement by mail is an info, but no legal requirement. The schools were once again left alone. After two years of pandemic, this is a rather sad and responsible idea, ladies and gentlemen. Trust in the leadership of the Ministry of Education has really reached a low point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Members of the schools and elementary education institutions have kept the operation running by themselves, and I expect that this extremely stressful situation will be taken into account to a large extent in the salary negotiations that are currently taking place. Ladies and gentlemen deserved it. Before the schools are constantly getting new plans, ideas and specifications on school quality projects, instead of being supported in their educational work, I suggest: The Ministry of Education, please, undergo an extensive critical self-reflection in quality management. The conclusion of the education system: In Austria, a child receives 100 euros for 2022. In comparison, the Netherlands spends 700 euros to pick up failures. It must also be said that the Nordic countries are far ahead of us in the field of education, and they are still investing in order to pick up missing people. [[Abg. Hoefinger: But not all!]] This is the value of education in Austria. If you don't think I need a pick-up package that I've called for a long time, look at it. Please be international! In return, they bear responsibility for all long-term damage. All that you now refuse to help and support, the children will be accompanied for a lifetime and burdened by the budget in Austria in the next few years. Human capital loss means loss of income, and that on all sides. Education must be a priority, and that is all you need to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e42824	Mr Rudolf Tashner is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e42845	Madam President. High house! Mrs Vorswinkler, the last sentence I can stress: Education must be a priority. What you said before may be seen from a different perspective. They have drawn the situation very black – so black is not really. There are certain points that we must think about, but on the other hand, we must say that there is a lot of brightness. The budget itself, particularly in the field of education, has grown beyond the 10-billion euro limit. In the field of research we also have an increase, we have around 5.6 billion euros, I think, available in the budget as money. Getting Now Of course, you say – I have heard it from Mrs Doublebauer – of these 10 billion euros in the educational budget is a large part, over 8 billion, 8.5 billion euros, for the staff – as if it were bad, ladies and gentlemen! The opposite is the case: Staff is the most important thing. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I should now like to refer to the speech by Mr Brandstätter, whom he gave yesterday. He said that we in Austria have a terrible antiscientific nature. This has also been noted by the Eurobarometer. That's really a huge problem. Science hostility means that one really is completely disdainful to science. It's not a science creation. Science creation is something interesting, because it is not always the case that what comes in as a voice of science is really science. There are many charlatans that hang around the coat of science and walk around with it and are in fact only gauklers. There are, and the great difficulty is to be able to distinguish these from the others, and that is indeed also the task of school. I think it is one of the most crucial tasks of school that one really appreciates public science – that is a term that my great example Heinz Haber has shaped in bringing public science, science to the public – by also appreciating those who actually represent them authentically and correctly. And to recognize these, this is the task of school by bringing children closer to what it means to really think. Not only do we want to teach calculations, writing, reading, we want to teach thought in particular. It's often forgotten. This makes staff in schools, and it will do even better, I hope very much, especially now that we are thinking about the new curriculum. The new curriculum will really focus on this, and we will ensure that it sets priorities. The second point, and now I come to the field of science, is the training of future teachers, male or female. This training really needs to be recommenced. We need to find new and smart ways to ensure that the three pillars – on the one hand science, on the other hand the correct educational theoretical action and, on the other hand, the third of practical pedagogical action – are actually implemented well. There's really much to do. There is not only a need for money, but there is also a great deal of thought. So whether the budget is increased by 10 or only 1 percent is not so crucial at all, but it is crucial that this money is used properly and meaningfully – and our Federal Minister stands for the success of this.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e42897	Next speaker: Mr Hermann Brügl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e42918	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In international comparison, Austria has a considerable educational budget – we spend over 10 billion euros on education – but at the same time we are in the international comparison, in international studies. Now one can carry out cause research or, as far as the current situation is concerned, set different priorities. We will spend EUR 240 million next year for school tests, for children's tests, but we will spend far too little for support, for support, for funding hours; far too little to compensate for the loss of education that has arisen in the course of the crisis and as a result of the government measures. In this context, I should like to make a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] But that's not the only problem, Hohes Haus. In the past few days, the now proverbial school chaos has broken into completely new galaxies. No one knows what's going on, Mr Frührwinkler from the SPÖ has also mentioned this. I can give an example, Minister of State: Your communication team has completely self-employed, sent out a message last week – at least in schools and with directors as an instruction – even though there was no regulation. It was then spread that in the future one must wear a FFP2 mask again, namely from the 1. Class folk school up to the Matura classes. [[Abg. Salzmann: That's not true at all!]] You then took this back in the regulation, there is no more talk about it, that is right, but it was once planned. This, of course, causes confusion, and at the same time causes confusion that there are schools in which the FFP2 masquerade duty is valid in the upper levels, not in the lower levels, but in gymnastics, for example, is already masked. It is in the regulation, which applies only to interiors, but in winter the children will of course be in the gyms and not outdoors. So I think FFP2 masks in gymnastics are an absolute insanity. Another instruction was – and this is actually a very serious point, Mr. Federal Minister – that all children who are unvaccinated are sent to Distancelearning when a child is tested positively in a class. But that means in the final effect, the folk students, the under-level students are basically back at home, and thus de facto you also close our schools again, at least in the lower-level area. Teaching with students sitting in the class, and students sitting at home doesn't work, it just doesn't work. Mr Federal Minister, you, too, are part of this federal government, which, with its measures, drives a whole, very large throat into our society; it separates families, it separates parents and children, it separates brother and sister. Political adviser Thomas Hofer put it to the fore two days ago, he said: “Politics – Party headquarters, Ministries and Federal Chancellery – underestimate the gap in society.” Mr Federal Minister, please stop at least in your area this division of society, this division of people in good and evil in our country! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[17:14]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e43016	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mrs Sibylle Hamann is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e43042	Madam President! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. This was a really bad year in schools, characterized by interruptions, overloads, injuries by Corona, but I am firmly convinced that the schools can get out of this crisis stronger and more robust, and this budget of at least more than 10 billion euros will help them. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP]] I'm trying to wrap this into a few corner points. Firstly, this budget is a future budget. It takes us out of the digital hole in which we have been sitting in this country for many, many years. I am not only talking about the much quoted and often discussed devices – uniform, affordable and high-quality – that will be available to all pupils and teachers in the future. I am also talking about IT support and its planning points. I am talking about a huge digital training offensive for teachers and also about the new duty of digital basic education, which is set in this budget with 150 planned posts from next year onwards. That finally makes us fit for the digital age. Secondly, this budget is also a budget for sustainability. Corona has shown us how essential fresh air can be – a thing you usually don't think about at all – a good room climate, ventilation, good technical equipment and, of course, also Wi-Fi. We have also seen how important open spaces and intelligent planning can be in the school architecture, so school new buildings and renovations are planned in this budget for 611 million euros, with a focus on energy efficiency, on sustainability, because the young people who are working globally for the climate, of course also want to learn climate in the school. Thirdly, and this is particularly important to me: What we have here is a solidary budget. It has, as we all know, given great social outrages this year, and yes, many children have had it even more difficult than others; therefore, additional resources are planned to be used specifically where they are most effective. Mr. Vorswinkler said she didn't see a pick-up package. I would like to point out the additional funding hours of 250 million euros in the current year, of which we have only been able to consume a little more than half of them, because it is so much, and to the extent that it has not been used up, there is now an additional 65 million euros. These are flexibly applicable hours at any location. A special focus, of course, is on the disadvantaged locations, a special focus is also on the promotion of languages, especially – also new – after the transition to proper status, because communication and language have, of course, suffered most in this crisis. Also inside are the expansion and re-organisation of the psychosocial support staff or, for example, the increase in student support by 20 percent, because in this country we need every child and his talents and we cannot afford to leave one of them behind. Yes, finally, it is a budget that has also produced new things; I have already mentioned the basic digital education. A second child of Corona is the summer school, which has come to stay – and is significantly expanded – in return as an offer for all children and young people. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Not only can you learn playfully – for the little ones – but also – for the elderly – you can prepare for a change of school, for examinations, for competitions. For students, this will be an opportunity to test themselves in practice and to gain experience. I think we will not be able to imagine at some point that this institution once did not exist; I will I'm looking forward to telling you details and looking forward to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e43099	Next speaker: Mrs Martina Künsberg Sarre. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e43121	Madam President. Minister! High house! I always like it when I speak to colleagues Taschner, because I already knew what will come, and now Mrs Hamann has also said: For the first time, we have more than 10 billion euros available in the education budget. – Yes, that may be true, but of course it depends on what is inside. If you just say the amount is great and it doesn't matter what it is, you make it a little easy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tashner.]] The budget can be described as follows: Administration instead of figures. That remains the same. Positive – that is what I want to start – is certainly the adjustment of student aid. It's been necessary for a long time. It is also positive that there is more resources for school psychology. My colleague Yannick Shetty will also address this. What you have not mentioned at all, of course, is that a very, very large part of the increases, namely 238 million euros, are used for tests, masks and disinfectants, and I think we agree that this is necessary and important, but of course this is not a single educational policy measure that brings children something. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Salzmann.]] . I don't know what you think is educational policy. Of course, this had to be there, but there would have to be something else, or the Minister of Health should finally feel responsible and not stop at the gates of the school. These are, in fact, health policy and not education policy measures. There are still only 15 million euros for the Chance Index. This is the prestigious project of the Greens. There was no word for basic education at all now, because basic education expenditure remains the same. These two areas together – which must be broken down once on the tongue – receive less than you use for masks, disinfectants and tests. This is where we see the value, namely that expenditure in the field of kindergarten remains the same. Mrs Hamann, you said last year that there would be additional resources – nothing to see. Just a short while to the science budget: There's an increase, that's positive. After long, tough rings there is also a follow-up for the National Foundations, which is good. But what is still unclear with the TU Upper Austria is still unclear. For that, you said there would be money in the budget. Unfortunately, where that exists we have not found. Another important measure, which was started during the last period of the benefit agreement, namely the funding of a study place, has obviously also been launched and will not continue. You might say that's corona, but of course you can't always talk about it. Mr Taschner has already mentioned the scientific crepency, the anti-scientific nature. Yes, that's a huge theme, and you're also in demand as a government. I can only say: The Court of Auditors has criticised the fact that three competent ministries spent over 60 million euros on science communication between 2013 and 2017, but there was no common strategy at all. It just makes everyone something, unconventional. Then you may, of course do not wonder that the Austrians or the citizens living here are relatively large and we are really lagging behind in this respect compared to other countries. Maybe very briefly: Countries whose population is not very skeptical of science also have good vaccination rates. So maybe there would be some connection, Mr. Tashner.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e43190	Next speaker: Mrs Maria Theresia Niss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e43211	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot begin to talk about research without mentioning the huge success of research over the last two years, and that is, of course, the vaccination. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] In the last two years, the knowledge of a large number of people around the world and, of course, a great deal of financial resources has been invested to find the only and long-term really possible way out of the pandemic, namely those through vaccination. That's why I address you all with an in-depth request: Let yourself be vaccinated for the first time, for the second time or for the third time! I got my third trick in the morning. I can assure you: It's fast, it doesn't hurt and it helps you, your family and the country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Even if Corona demands us, this is not the only challenge, of course. We have the field of ecologicalisation, climate change, we have demographic challenges, we have digitalisation. It is clear that research is, of course, quite relevant to the solution of all these problems. Exactly with research, we will, of course, be able to make opportunities out of these challenges, in Austria and in Europe. Austria has always been a research country, and Austria is a research country. We have excellent universities, we have excellent research institutions, and we have excellent companies. Yeah, we can get better, I don't want to deny that. For example, in the field of knowledge transfer, in our excellent basic research, I think we can get even better when it comes to finding marketable products and solutions. Nevertheless, I am a little sorry to have to listen to me again and again by experts or self-proclaimed experts from the opposition that we are not there. Our researchers play a leading role in both quantum technology and cancer research. Think of Prof. Zeilinger, but also of Prof. Lechner in Innsbruck in the field of quantum technology! Think of the IMP, Boehringer Ingelheim in the field of cancer research! I don't want to talk about Green Energy or Green Technology, because I would insult anyone I don't mention. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] It is essential that we invest the corresponding funds. I am pleased that we can invest a total of EUR 3.7 billion with this budget. This is an increase of 9 percent, and I congratulate you, Minister, in your area you have a plus of 360 million euros. I would like to thank you very much, above all, for your commitment to the National Foundation. I think we have found a very, very good follow-up model for the next few years, This is essential for research in Austria and for the location Austria. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] At the end of the day, I would like to mention another area that is particularly important to me, and that is the area of female research, the area of women in research. There we can and we need to get even better. Currently, about a third of the researchers in Austria are women, with the professors the proportion of women is even lower. I believe that this is a very, very big step towards success, so that we as a research country will become even stronger in the future. To sum up, I would like to say: I'm proud of our science, I'm proud of our research institutions, I'm proud of our companies, but I'm especially proud of our women! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e43287	Next speaker: Mrs Andrea Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e43308	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can join the vaccine of my predecessor with my whole heart and with full conviction. The contribution of science to the fight against pandemic is not high enough. In this respect, it is also completely incomprehensible that scientists should now be made scapegoats for the current terrible situation in the current debate by some members of the government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] From this point of view, I would like to strongly reject this and, quite the contrary, to those we now expect so urgently important decisions, to appeal, to intervene, to stop this wave, to break this wave and to really listen to the expertise of the scientists and to resort to it. It's high time! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As far as the science budget is concerned, I would like to draw up two points, which we would expect to have much more warmer measures and also the provision of the necessary budget resources. One is the expansion of technical universities, and the other is the promotion of studies. The technical colleges have become a very, very important pillar in the tertiary field, but are treated in a thorough, budgetary manner. First of all, it would be important to offer more places to study there; and, in addition, in the context of the fact that a few years ago, when massive study places were introduced in the context of the programme's funding, you, Mr. Federal Minister, promised that this would be accompanied by a correspondingly massive, strong, committed expansion of the study places at vocational colleges. However, this has not happened in recent years and will not be possible on the basis of this budget either. We would expect and demand much more budget resources and greater expansion for our students. The second point is the promotion of studies: There are means for valorization, but to a very small extent. We are now faced with a massive wave of inflation, which is also true of the students, who have little resources, who are also particularly affected by the pandemic and are very affected by the job opportunities. Inflation is increasing very much, as it would be necessary to strengthen the support of students: On the one hand, there is a need for an inflation rate which has not been in place since 2017. At the time, we implemented this, and on the other hand, it would be important to extend the scope of student funding so that more students can receive support. This would be necessary, because the students have been hit very strongly by the pandemic and would have deserved it.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e43365	Next speaker is Mrs Eva Blimlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e43387	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! I do not understand my previous speaker at all, and I wonder if she really looked at the budget, in particular with regard to the vocational colleges. There is an increase since there is an increase in the number of places of study, which has also existed in recent years. There are 375 million euros for technical colleges, so there is an extension. I do not see that we are there – quite the contrary, this sector was strengthened last year and will be strengthened again with this budget, as well as the universities. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We have already mentioned the performance agreement budget, for the years 2022 to 2024 there are 12.3 billion euros available, and I think there are only three or four universities that are still negotiating. Most have already concluded their service agreements, and it is clear that: As a rector or rector, you are not always satisfied, of course I was never satisfied either, that is quite the right thing – but honestly, you have to say that the qualifications with increases between 7 and 10 percent are very good. They cover a lot and, above all, make new things possible again and again. It is often insinuated that it would only be continued and an inflation bill decided: No, no, there are many new projects at the universities! We only need to look at the current service agreement period, in which a lot has really been implemented in new fields of study, but also in scientific and research projects. The item on study aid will be increased by EUR 20 million: Yes, you can wish for more, but I think the valorization is covered with it, and with the last novel, there was a little bit of an extension of the relationship circle. Research – FWF, Akademie der Wissenschaften et cetera –: I am particularly interested in the now very good teaching of the FWF in order to promote basic research sufficiently. The budget for the years 2021 to 2023 is an increase of 27 percent, and for the FWF programmes 806 million euros are available, I think this is a very good way. With the new President, it will also be good to consolidate the various programmes in the FWF, I think, above all in the field of excellence programmes. However, I am particularly concerned about the programmes for the development and development of the arts with which artistic research is promoted. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I would also like to say something about Corona at this point: I would like to thank the rector of the University of Klagenfurt, Oliver Vitouch, for his dedicated approach, as well as for his 2G rule and his statement that people who reject scientific results and research should consider what they are doing at a university. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] [[Abg. Brügl: Anti-democratic!]] That is exactly the point that we should be more committed to making certain things possible. My thanks to him at this point for his courageous attitude – he is covered with murder threats, just so much for it. By the way, I am of course still of the opinion that the Windisch-Kaserne should be renamed Richard-Wadani-Kaserne.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e43447	The next speaker is Mr Martin Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e43469	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! I have to make a decision against what Mrs Blimlinger said. This is exactly what must not happen: What kind of access to education or training, if you have a fundamental right, namely the right to education, is simply so negated – as a rector or as a science spokesman for a government party? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is really incredible, and for this reason I also make a request here. Mr. Federal Minister, communication in this area is not really good, because each institution, which is perhaps the problem, has a different interpretation and perspective, right up to the exclusion of students from education. This goes a little too far, and you have to intervene as a minister of science. This concerns not only the University of Klagenfurt, but also the other institutions, and for this reason I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is an urgent request, Minister of State, that you act there. I would just like to say to Mr Taschner: I have heard a lot of criticism from you, you say that everything needs to be re-established – then I hope that the ÖVP will soon come to the government, then you can finally implement it! You represent it as if the ÖVP were in the opposition, you finally criticise more than we do. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] There's more money, yes, that's right and it's quite clear on a number of points – but we're not satisfied at all at all with the colleges. It shows far too little commitment, too little focus, too little future in the institutional -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e43535	You must now formulate your final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e43550	My final sentence: It is very sad that the FWF – who says every year at the annual press conference that it could equip more good projects, but the money is missing – will actually get nominal but also percentage less next year. [[Federal Minister Fässmann shakes his head.]] You have to look, I think, at exactly why this is so, because it must not be a good project on the track. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[17:38]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e43636	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Josef Smolle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e43660	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Austria is one of the countries with the highest research and development rate in Europe, and I say that with a slight bout of eyes: This is particularly beautiful for me as a steirer, because the Styria has one of the highest R&D ratios in all 283 European regions. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Lercher.]] At the same time, it says that we have a good input, but how does it look with the output? – There are also a lot of things going on, and that in the Times Higher Education Ranking, two Austrian universities – one in Vienna, one in Graz – have managed under the Top 200 – are a gratifying signal that it is heading in the right direction. Let's go to the research budget! In fact, there is much being done on the input side, the research budget increases from 5.3 billion to 5.6 billion euros, around 4.1 billion euros for universities, and there, as with university funding already started, performance-oriented and differentiated in teaching, research, infrastructure is negotiated. It is also important to focus on the German Federal Government's R&D strategy 2030 and the FDI Pact for the next years, and that this applies not only to universities with these three-year LV agreements, but also to the ten non-university research funding and research institutions in Austria. We can certainly expect that this clear strategic orientation will also increase output. There are really good signs of this when you look at it internationally. One of these is, of course, the IST Austria, a very young institution that has managed to send a clear signal on the international scientific map in a few years. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a budget of good input into research. I can assure you that the Austrian researchers know how to use this, and I am not worried about the output. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e43703	Next speaker: Mr Yannick Shetty. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e43725	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with the positive, and I would like to express my express thanks to you, Federal Minister, for the fact that there is more money for school psychology, with a real increase of 8 million euros, which can also finance significantly more school psychologists and school psychologists. That's really good, and I want to thank you for that. We welcome this measure, but of course it takes more than this EUR 8 million. For those who cannot be intercepted from school psychology already end up in the completely overlaid psychiatry stations, and there is the triage, which is currently very much spoken of, long-term reality. For this area there is no other cent, not here in the educational budget – admittedly, that would not be properly lifted here – but not in the health budget either. This federal government simply acts as if there was no crisis on the stationary child and youth psychiatric system. At the children's and youth psychiatry in Vienna, there is no single bed left. The children's and youth psychiatry in Hall in Tyrol has a longer waiting list than there are even places to give. Children with mental problems are sent home until these problems are so acute after months that the children have to be hospitalized. These are not the consequences of a corona disease, these are the direct consequences of a misguided corona policy of this federal government. The former chancellor, before the summer, has declared the pandemic to be media-active, a cool time comes to us, he has said, and today we are worse than ever before. Members like Mr Tashner then come out here, well-noticed scientific spokespersons of the ÖVP, and he tells all the serious that he is still proud to be a short part of this system. [[Abg. Hi, hello!]] Mr Taschner and other colleagues, perhaps visit [[Intrusion of the Abg. Taschner]] Once you have a child- and youth-psychiatry, look at the direct consequences of this turquoise show and announcement policy, and then tell the children and young people who have waited for a care room for months that they have come through the crisis super! Dear colleagues from the turquoise sector – and I now expressly mean the Turks and not the Blacks – if you continue to do so, then Minister of Integration Raab will probably have to draw up its own turquoise chapter in her report on parallel societies. Minister Fässmann, on your responsibility: I repeat that once again, I also know that children and students are really concerned about you – I would like to highlight these additional resources for school psychology – but with regard to the mental health of children and young people, the crucial question is how you will now act in the next few weeks. After a total failure in pandemic management – and I believe this is really just a few, Mr. Schallmeiner has also said at the round table that all this has gone well – now is the question of how we deal with it. I'm really saying this right now: We are at a point where further measures will probably need to be taken, whether 2G, 2G plus, booster vaccinations, baseline restrictions, lockdown, but that's not what I'm talking about now, but I'm saying it differently: It makes me angry that we need to talk about further measures, but they will probably be necessary if we want to prevent mass deaths in intensive care stations. However, I would like to tell you one thing to return to the point of mental health, Mr Federal Minister: Don't you dare clean yourself up again to the young people in this country! Do not dare to lock up children and young people again, to lock them up, to take them, which is a happy youth! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Don't dare to paint their sport and leisure again, to make contact with their friends! Don't dare to close the schools again! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Contact reduction is the factor for mental problems of young people, and we must not and cannot afford any further waves of depression and eating disorder. Don't dare to have the little ones pay again for the big ones' mistakes! I promise you, we won't let that happen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e43804	Next speaker: Mrs Martina Kaufmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e43826	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! But above all, dear spectators at home! We are experiencing an exciting debate on education here. My previous speaker is standing here, swinging big tones, how terrible how dramatic that is not how terrible it has a whole generation of children and young people right now. Yes, there are some children and young people who are in need of support, but this Federal Government has made 13 million euros available for the future so that we can intervene exactly there. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] So what you're saying, Mr. Shetty of the NEOS is a joke. This is a ugliness to the Minister, which is a naughtiness to the children and young people who, together with the educators, have come to an excellent end with the challenges in school. That should be very respectable. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The same applies to Col. Fürderwinkler from SPÖ. It is here and speaks of a non-responsible policy, a responsibility of this federal government. We have put in place additional resources for follow-up hours – the Green colleague has done it before – namely 250 million euros, which are now being invested, already in the current school year and before with the summer school, so that if one or the other has not come along, we can make up for this. But let us look at this education system and our school system in Austria as a whole: We have come through the pandemic excellently, with excellent educators and educators we have also immediately set ourselves on this new situation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] Don't tell a new generation that their future is lost! What is this perspective for today's young people? I last held an online discussion with a school class who told me: We read in the media all the time, and we're told we haven't learned anything, we can't do anything, we'll never get a job and so on. – Stop doing that! [[New call of the abg. Double farmer.]] Stop it! They say that in all these debates. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Künsberg Sarre von the NEOS, although you are told in every committee and in every debate here: The Federation is not responsible for elementary education. It's just not him. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have excellent facilities for our zero to six years old, we have excellent legislation for this. We have super educational institutions, and we have put great importance on them in all the federal states in recent years. Especially in Styria, where you come from, we have one of the best child rearing and childcare laws. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] You can't say the Federation is responsible, and ask where the budget is the money for it. No, that's not how it works. We have federalism in Austria. Fact is, dear spectators: We have a budget with which we will already exceed the 10 billion euro limit in the school sector next year. And Yes, this is used for good educational work, namely for excellent educators directly in schools, and they do not manage, but they design, which really do good teaching work. The fact is that: We have many projects and many measures, including digitalization. The 9 700 terminals in Graz alone are provided for additional facilities. That means we are also fit for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e43913	Next speaker: Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e43934	Madam President. Federal Minister! To the colleague of the ÖVP: The Federation is therefore not responsible for elementary education, because an ex- Chancellor – the colleague, Mr. Klubobmann Kurz, sits in the room – wanted to stir up a federal state and did not make the right to child care possible. [[Abg. Sieber: You know that's not true! There's no such thing as that! Learn history!]] He is, in fact, the worst political haxler. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Salzmann: This is an old story! That's not true! You know that's not true!]] [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: That's not true!]] That's why there's no such thing at federal level. That is true, Mrs Salzmann. [[Abg. Salzmann: No, it's not true!]] There is black on white in chat news, but you will explain it to us afterwards. On the mental health of children and young people, I can easily follow what Mr Shetty said: It's two years, Minister, we have really high-dramatic numbers. The childhood and youth psychiatrics are full, the triage is reality. The psychological support of children and adolescents is essential, must be one of our top priorities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] That's what the Federal Youth Office says with its motto: The crisis in mind under which it has established a 10-point charter. Many of the points in this report also concern the field of education. On the one hand, it is about the expansion of school psychology, but also about increased prevention on the subject of mumbing or also about information on psychoactive addictions at schools. For example, the Federal Students' Office also demands that every student, every student at least one conversation with a school psychologist, a school psychologist a year – this is a super-important requirement. The Federal Association for Psychotherapy has also presented a concept – Fit4School – so that continuous low-sleep accompaniment can be offered at the schools. This works quite well in Tyrol. Now, in fact, only the financial means are needed to really roll this out all over Austria. This would cost 15 000 euros per school. This is an accompaniment within 4 hours per week. So this is really just as good a proposal. Many proposals are therefore at the table, Minister. We really appeal to you to give out here a rich plus for the mental health of children and young people. We recognize that you've made an increase, but it just needs more. The good will would be there, now it really needs more millions for the mental health of our children and young people in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to take a short trip to the field of science – Mr Niss has already mentioned it – because the subject is really important: Women's promotion in the Austrian university landscape. The higher education sector is still too little permeable, we still face a glass ceiling. There are too few professors, too few women on tenuretracks. This also shows the effectiveness goals set by your ministry. I really ask you, Minister: You have a central coordination function – of course, Mr Blimlinger, taking into account university autonomy – that is quite clear, as the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, you really have to show more ambitions for women in Austria so that they also have the same career opportunities as their male colleagues in higher education. Mr Minister, put a sign, let's break the glass ceiling together!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e44032	Next speaker: Mr Nico Marchetti. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e44056	Madam President. Estimated Minister! I think we should take a little care of what words we choose, because I don't think you're fighting more, if you're particularly unkind, or if you're more right, if you're louder. If you come here and think that the Federal Government has some kind of pleasure in locking up children, then I really want to say: To pretend to be some sadists who enjoy harming young people is really tasteless. Dear colleague Shetty, dignity is more than a conjunctiv. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We've been talking a lot about numbers now, many numbers, but I think staring one-dimensional at amounts is a little too little. It's not just about what we're pouring into the top, but it's also about what comes out down for an output. I would like to mention two concrete projects, which I believe we are not only making enough money available, but also using them properly. One of these is the eight-point plan for digital education. We are now spending 56 million euros on this budget, and we have not only said to schools: Here you have money, and there you have the equipment!, but we have asked the schools to submit concepts and ask them: What are you doing in class with these devices? – Only when you did this did you get the money and the equipment, which I think is very useful. We have also accompanied this measure with the duty of digital basic education, because of course it is the basic requirement for using a device properly. We have provided 150 planning sites for this purpose. I think it's a round package with enough resources and a good idea behind it. I would like to highlight this positively. A second project is from the government programme, the project 100 schools. This is about the fact that we really support focal schools. We do not want to put money into the system with the casting pot, but it is a question of providing more resources on the basis of indicators of really targeted schools, which are particularly difficult to deal with the particular social problems. I think that's a good concept. As I said, it is not only a question of putting more money into a system, it is also a question of improving the system. I believe that these 10 billion euros for the educational budget are not only a batch of money, but it is also really a good system in which the euros that we are emptying are also paying off. That is why I think it is a good thing, and I believe that we can also be satisfied with the way in which the negotiations have taken place.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e44102	Next speaker: Mrs Gertraud Salzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e44123	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! But also appreciated spectators at home, who hopefully follow this very hot educational debate with interest! I could replicate a lot now. Mr Shetty, I think Nico Marchetti, my predecessor, has also said: I am really dissociating myself from this choice of words, which has been taken here at the speaker's desk. We don't lock children away. If you say, “Don’t you want it”!, I feel that this is a threat, and I find it completely inappropriate here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Colleagues Holzleitner – I don't see you now – to the 1.6 billion euros: Even if you repeatedly repeat this mantra again and again, it doesn't get any more correct, because this story is not true. [[Abg. Holzleitner:... something else!]] I'd love to explain it to you, maybe you'll take it from me. Ladies and gentlemen, it has always been a point of EUR 1.6 billion, but there has been a lot of money in the expansion of day care. On the one hand, it has not taken up the communities, on the other – and I would like to make it quite clear here as a representative of the People's Party – we stand for freedom of choice, we do not follow the model that the SPÖ has. You can have another one, I don't care. We stand for freedom of choice, we want day care, but not mandatory, that is clear. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: What does freedom of choice mean if there is nothing? That's an eye-catching! What do I have for a choice if the kindergarten in black communities is open to twelve?]] [[Mr Holzleitner and Mr Brandstötter.]] Mr Brückl, you have spoken about the funding hours. There are currently so many funding hours that they cannot be consumed in schools at all. Why? [[Abg. Martin Graf: This may be the system!]] – Please remember You also have a situation: There are many teachers who have performed their service in the classes, in schools in the last one and a half years with a high idealism up to the limit of their load capacity. I think it is clear that at some point they can no longer be able to give more and more additional funding hours. [[Abg. Martin Graf: This is going to be much better now, because now they are allowed to wear mask all the time!]] I would like to conclude by stressing – and perhaps let me say something to my colleagues here too – Mr Minister: A budget with a budget of more than 10 billion euros for a good education, which benefits every euro, ladies and gentlemen, our children and therefore our future, is a good educational budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am very pleased that we can now provide an extreme boost in digitisation with more than 250 million euros, ladies and gentlemen. No, it's not just the tablets, it's not just the computers we're putting in the hands of the students, it's a total package. To a large extent, we have already spent these tablets in schools. The children are happy about this. We have been teaching for years in training, in training – we will continue to promote it, which is an important point of this overall package. We will expand this digital basic education much more. We will, and there is a lot to do, also in the next few years set very important and clear educational policy accents that bear our Christian and national handwriting, as you can be sure. We will evaluate and develop teaching and further develop teaching; we will also be very strongly involved in the promotion of individual schools in our good, differentiated education system; and we will also focus on elementary education. Finally, I would like to express my sincere thanks to all the educators, whether they are in childcare facilities or in schools. They have accompanied the children with a high level of commitment best through this very difficult, enormously demanding time, they are well cared for and also often supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e44226	Next speaker: Mr Helmut Brandstätter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e44248	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Kurz leaves the hall once again, although I would have liked to have said something to him. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In fact, it is a very important sentence, which, if you are studying at a university, you certainly do not get involved, and if you do not study at the university, you do not get it. That's why I would have liked to tell him, but you could do it to him then: “Science and its teaching is free.” – They’re screaming again, and when you shout, you don’t hear. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr Loacker has already explained this today. That is why I say it again, and the Federal Minister can also explain it to you: “Science and its teaching are free.” [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That is in the state law, Article 17 is therefore in constitutional rank. This applies to all of us – except for a small group around Mr. Kurz. This sentence does not apply to them, for that is not the plague. So the laws apply to the mob. Mr. Schmid wrote this in his chats, and therefore he felt that science is not free at all, and has taken Mr. Badelt as a recognized scientist and said that with the funding from his institute, that is right now, please, that he publishes things that they do not like at all. Mr Badelt then told this in a “profile” interview. He said Schmid invited him to dinner. That was the most friendly thing. Then he “opened up very rough” to him that the Ministry of Finance must cut the Wifo basic subsidy by a quarter, and then he said he was dissatisfied, and everything doesn’t go that far. Then he said there are studies that are paid but not published. This, ladies and gentlemen, is already scandalous: that tax-money funding is used to finance studies, and if they do not fit into an official – not an official, but Mr. Schmid, who is somehow part of the short system – then they will not be published. That is why we have prepared a resolution today. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Why didn't he say anything back then?]] - Who? – You have to ask Professor Badelt, but if someone says a threat - if anyone is threatening, the evil one is the one who expresses the threat, and not the one who is threatened. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Professor Badelt!]] [[Further call of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Margreiter has already said this in the debate on the judicial debate. He said: The system is corrupt. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Martin Graf and Mr Eßl.]] . We must take care of this, we must end it, and that is why we have prepared a motion for a resolution. But before I bring it in, I'd like to tell you something. Look You today on profile.at, because you will see what has happened in this system further in corrupt actions! First of all, it was obviously the search of the house at Fleischmann, Frischmann and so on, and second, the phones were gone at once; but the boys don't even learn anything. Mr Fleischmann has still believed that when he deletes his cell phone, everything is gone. Thank God it's not like that. Although they have tried to undermine the system, the WKSTA works, it will also evaluate it, and that is very important. [[Abg. Hörl:... Even deleted cell phone?]] Now I would like to give Mr. Kurz the book “The Art of the Right Measure”. [[The speaker keeps this book up-to-date.]] Yes, this is the book “The Art of the Right Measure ” by Prof. John Huber. Mr Kollross smiles. [[Abg. Eßl: Read it yourself!]] I confess, because I like to say the truth: Unfortunately, I haven't read it yet, but will read it now. I'm just reading to you a little bit. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl]] This book gives indications of how we find the right measure, but also how we can keep it, for example by putting old habits and adopting new ones, which is not easy, but for which there are helpful techniques. - Quote. That is why it would be good if some people read it and end the old habits of corrupting a system. At Professor Huber I also like that he is not only a physician, but also a theologian, and I think that is a good mixture, so I will read this book with joy. However, I am going to put forward this motion for a resolution before. Mr Fässmann, you see in it a proof of trust on our part! You'll hear it soon. I just hope you won't be disabled, you never know. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The aim must also be – and I believe that you, as a scientist, Mr. Federal Minister, are really in favour of explaining certain people: “Science and its teaching are free.” Let people work in peace! Stop science hostility! We live by these research results. They are good for us, for example, by finding a vaccination. So let's immunize you! Thank you. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Kollross.]] [[18:06]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e44466	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mr Heinz Fässmann has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e44491	Madam President. High house! We talk about the same matter, speak of the same UGs, but obviously from very different perspectives. You will therefore understand that I praise both budgets, UG 30 and 31, and I fully understand that the opposition criticizes them. This is a legitimate and very part of our parliamentary discussion. Why I'm satisfied, Mrs. Vorswinkler: OECD – Education at a Glance tells me that we spend about $13,000 per student per year. We are thus in fourth place to Luxembourg, Norway and Iceland. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am entirely of the opinion of Mrs Deputies Salzmann: This is well-invested money, money invested in education is always invested in the future, and therefore I am very satisfied with the UG 30 – and also 31, as I will explain later. On school visits, and I make a lot of school visits, it is very constructive to see very nice how our schools are usually made. We invest 625 million euros a year in new school construction and school renovation. It is often magnificent schools, which are built, are built ecologically sustainable. This is something that impresses me very much, and I also see that students like to go to such schools because it is a pleasant atmosphere for learning. We also invest a lot in elementary pedagogy, I must stress this once again: It is around 143 million euros a year in the current 15a agreement. In addition, a 52 percent share of the co-financing of the countries will be added, and, as I have already said in the Committee, of course, the funds for the coming years are not yet in the way, because it would be a very naïve negotiation if I had already told the negotiator how much to achieve. No, first you have to talk about the services, the structures, the offers, and then you can talk about financing. Mr. Shetty, you threatened me very much, I can't dare. Somehow I thought: Don't you know what I'm for? Follow You're not media? Don't you follow any public statements from me either? Especially I am the one who says this triage decision in the psychiatry is part of a comprehensive health concept, and if we speak of triage in the ICUs, then of course you also have to take this triage into account. You know, I say on every occasion – sometimes you can be incredibly redundant when you always say the same thing, but I think that's part of the fate of a politician – that the time and meaning structure that school gives to students and gives them to get up in the early days – sometimes laborious because you prefer to sleep even longer – is important to go to school, learn something there. This creates meaning structure in life, and, of course, for me, presence school is the best prophylaxis to protect someone from depressive attire. I say that every time, but You're telling me impressively now, I can't dare: I didn't understand. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I also need to say something about the funding hours: We have said that 250 million euros are on the table for funding hours. My previous speakers have also suggested that it is not exhausted at all. Only one comparison number: Germany spends 2 billion euros for funding hours, we spend at least 250 million euros – this is more than tenfold. You also have to see – and I am very happy about that – that we have two new subjects of instruction. Ethics is the one thing, and the other is the duty of digital basic education. This is not just an election, not just a non-binding exercise, it has become a mandatory subject. I ask you to see only occasionally what is really positive in this budget. The universities have been well thought out, Mrs Kuntzl. The Rector of the University of Vienna Heinz Engl says on many occasions that in the last LV period, the University of Vienna was able to finance an expansion phase and afford that of the founding period of the 19th century. ==References== A total of 360 new professors were appointed during the last LV period. A large Austrian university like the University of Vienna has 400 professor positions. So if you want to do so, a large Austrian university has been newly added over the last three years. This expansion phase does not stop, even in the next LV period another 60 new professorships will be created. The universities, I think, will be able to look back on a six-year period of growth, and I think this is excellent. Mr Graf, you mentioned the FWF and said he had never had as little money as he is now. [[Abg. Martin Graf: No! Less than before!]] Didn't you say it? – He could have more. I have to tell you, the FWF has raised 27 percent compared to the last three years. The FWF has never had as much budget as it will now get. The FWF also has the opportunity to build completely new structures in Austria through the Cluster of Excellence, which did not exist before. We are, I believe, equally successful in the field of the Ludwig-Boltzmann-Gesellschaft, which will receive more money. The Academy of Sciences gets more money, the IST Austria gets more money. Overall, the research sector has really been a successful sector. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The Fund for the Future of Austria has been established, at least roughly 140 million euros per year. That's all worth showing. Ladies and gentlemen, education, science and research are among the areas of growth in this budget. Finally, I would like to thank the House – because you agree with the budget – that this has become possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e44547	Next speaker: Mrs Romana Deckenbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e44569	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Seers! Focus schools – this term is always to be heard in the school context, and I personally use it very, very hard, because you always have an association with it: Violence, divided society, religious fanaticism, a place where one may not like to go. And every day, thousands of people go there as schoolchildren, as teachers, as teachers, as school principals, and because of this situation or precisely because of that great work. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It is already pressing the question of what exactly these schools need to meet these challenges. The Federal Government has enshrined in the Government Convention to support schools with special needs as best as possible. In cooperation with the University of Vienna, a pilot project, 100 schools – 1,000 opportunities, was launched, and 15 million euros are estimated for this. It was started in this school year. Let us also give this project a chance! 100 schools across Austria have been selected taking into account a wide range of criteria. Mrs Vorswinkler, I would like to ask you: It can be more and more, that's no question. For example, schools with a high proportion of children with a language other than German are used. I remind you: In Vienna this applies to more than 50 percent of our students. We also know that the educational background and socio-economic factors of the parental home play a major role in successful schooling. These criteria were also taken into account in the research project, because of course every child has the right to education, regardless of religion, skin color, gender, or whether it is disabled, whether it has poor or rich parents. Our schools should of course also receive the appropriate support. With the best resources, a greater number of support staff, school psychologists and school psychologists, language funding hours, there are a thousand opportunities for our children and young people. The findings from this project are the basis for an effective, demand-oriented and solution-oriented policy. It is important at the same time – and I believe this is really extremely important – that an evaluation should be carried out on a continuous basis in order to ensure that the use and the The effectiveness of the measures put in place can also be really checked. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Our colleagues always work great at all schools, and those who need support because of their special challenges should also get them because education is the best investment in our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e44632	Next speaker: Mr Klaus Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e44656	Estimated President! Estimated Minister! “It costs what it wants,” said the pandemic. This is what the retired German chancellor Kurz said. "It costs what it wants", but unfortunately we don't have it with the apprentices, Minister. I know the lesson with Matura is in the budget. I have the subdivided 30, which has 160 pages. It is just such a leaf that concerns the apprentices. [[Keeping a sheet of paper in height]] That's all, and I think that's not how professional students can get out in the future. What's in the promotion package? – There is nothing for apprentices, and pupils like other students are. When I think about how the Matura has been debated, what everything has to happen so that the Maturants can make the Matura! The apprentices have been abandoned. Nothing has happened in this direction, and I therefore ask for a rethinking of the apprentices. There are over 100,000 apprentices in Austria, and they also have a right to general education. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have a right to be treated in the ministry the same as the other students. The wider they are, the easier they will do in the future. An apprentice wants to be powerful, and an apprentice simply wants to move forward. He starts working at the age of 15 and works up to 65 years. Some do not have the time to train apprentices wisely for three years to teach them general knowledge. But I think that's important. One must not forget the apprentices, and above all they must not simply be cheap auxiliary workers in the establishments. I think the trainers are responsible for the decent training of their apprentices. If I hear the boss of a hotel company say: I can lock my hotel because no apprentices are there!, then there is something wrong with that, and that should be discussed. As a boss, you have to train apprentices wisely to prepare them so that they can then be up to 65. The number of people working in the labour market is estimated to be higher than the number of working people employed in the labour market. I think it's better to support the apprentices. These are young people 15 years old, they need a critical approach to the Internet, languages, communication, digital knowledge. These are things you just have to teach them. At the end of my speech I ask you, Minister: Have you already included an apprentice in your cabinet to teach this perhaps a little bit of practice?
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e44709	Next speaker: Mr Johann Weber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e44730	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, Home in front of the screens! Education is the basic condition and ultimately the key to a fulfilled life. As already heard, we have set milestones with the 2022 budget. There are milestones in the area of school with a budget of over 10 billion euros, which is a plus of 400 million euros. I see a second milestone in the field of science, research and universities with 5.6 billion euros, which is a plus of 360 million euros. In total, we have estimated EUR 15.8 billion for education, which is an increase of EUR 760 million. It can be broken down quietly on the tongue. It is very great what the Minister has negotiated, and for that he deserves a great deal of thanks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to address two areas, because this is very important to me personally: The one, Mr Köchl, is the teaching with Matura, for which 12.4 million euros are planned. I'm a fan of teaching with Matura. Why? – Because the model works really well with us in the Wolfsberg district, there about 10 percent of apprentices do the teaching with Matura, and that has been for years. I can confirm this because very many graduates of the school I am allowed to teach take this path. They will ultimately make the mature, willing, highly sought after professionals with very good general education, i.e. those we need in the economy and will need even more in future. That's why: Congratulations and thank you for paying attention to it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second thing I would like to address is vocational education. Thank you for the 360 million euros in the budget! In Wolfsberg, about 20 years ago, we tried very hard to get a university location in the district. That was not possible at the time. In the meantime, however, a company – namely the company PMS in Sankt Stefan bei Wolfsberg, which employs about 400 people and specializes in electrical and automation technology – has managed to set up an outdoor office at the Villach University of Applied Sciences for interested persons who want to take a vocational education in the region. Next year, there will be the first graduates of this training rail. I think that's very good, and that's exactly what we need. It helps to combat the demigration from the regions to the agglomerations, because the people on the ground can make the appropriate training they need in the workplaces there in a short time. That's what I'm saying, thank you very much. Education and training in the region thus help the regions in all areas and in all their tasks. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e44790	Next speaker: Mrs Agnes Totter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e44812	There is only one thing that is more expensive in the long term than education, namely no education, said John F. Kennedy. Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! It has never been spent in Austria as much on education as it is estimated for the year 2022. The education budget will increase by over 400 million euros in next year. Of course, the significant plus is reflected in different priorities: These are support hours and support measures, the increase of the psychosocial support staff, the expansion of day care, investment in school construction and much more. However, I would particularly like to highlight the German Government's digitalization offensive. The implementation of the Eight Point Plan for Digital Education will amount to around 56 million euros in 2022. 46 million of these are intended for the provision of final equipment for pupils and teachers, including our secondary schools, which, particularly in rural regions, constitute an essential pillar of education. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Hamann.]] However, not only end-of-the-art devices are purchased and delivered – which alone is a real logistical master achievement – but Minister Heinz Faßmann also provides enough funds for the meaningful implementation of the project. There are additional hours for first-level support in schools as well as planning facilities for IT administrators, which are available to the schools in support. I particularly welcome the establishment of digital basic education, which is also the subject of financial resources. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! SPÖ ministers like Colleague Heinisch-Hosek, who unfortunately is no longer there, have always talked about digitization, but have not managed to implement this project. Now, finally, the implementation is coming. A great compliment and my warm thanks therefore go to Federal Minister Fässmann and his team. Thank you to all the colleagues who are committed to implementing this project in schools! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lercher.]] Ladies and gentlemen! School has, among other things, the task of imparting knowledge. We educators and educators are happy when we realize that children have been able to expand their knowledge and have matured. I am all the more pleased when learning succeeds at the political level. It has been shown that learning can also be successful in FPÖ travels. I would like to quote: I had to get around my life at the intensive care station. Normal things like walking or grabping must be learned again. I always thought it couldn't meet me at 28, and I'd be more easily done with it. Wrong thought. I now count as being healed, but will definitely go to vaccination in six months. - Quote. All of this comes from a Facebook posting of a FPÖ mandatar from my home district in the southeast Styria, which was severely affected by Corona. He too has learned something about it, unfortunately at a very high price. It shouldn't have been that way. I therefore urgently appeal to all those who give faith to the inaccurate statements of the FPÖ: Learn to wake up and get immunized! It's never too late, and it helps you and all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e44884	Next speaker: Mrs Katharina Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e44908	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! “It costs what it wants” is a sage that has been severely stressed and has still not yet arrived at children, students, apprentices and students, nor budgetaryly. The target groups of this sage are donors, top earners and corporations, which is also reflected in the budget. That's really sad. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let us look at the budget for education and science with regard to children, students and students: Yes, there are the above-mentioned increases. In the field of education, almost everything is spent on personnel costs and testing and eaten up by them. That's okay, but it needs more. In the field of science, more is needed for the performance agreements. After 20 months of Corona crisis, children, students and students still get nothing that directly supports or relieves them. Let's start with the little ones: For months, experts and educators have called for 1 billion euros for pedigrees and kindergartens. This billion is simply not to be found in the budget, even if we were looking for days, ladies and gentlemen. On the contrary, the Minister also admitted: For the coming year, hot 142.7 million euros are budgeted for pedigrees and kindergartens, but we already know them from the 15a agreement. I'm really asking you: How exactly is this huge lack of children's places to be met? Who? In addition, these must be payable to mothers, to parents. How do you react to the protest of the educators and caretakers who were also on the streets, Mr. Federal Minister, as well as to the shortage of skilled workers and as to the continuing underpayment? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] – Financially not at all, we find nothing in the budget! This is sad because the children are really the greatest losers of this crisis, and they can no longer wait. That's why it takes a first important step immediately: With the right to a full-day free children's education place, which was prevented by former Chancellors in short! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] – 1.2 billion euros were simply prevented out of vanity. This is an increase of children, parents and, above all, women. Let's get to the acute corona situation! The last days and weeks were, honestly, an absolute disaster in government communication, including in the field of education, unfortunately: a back and forth, from today on to tomorrow PCR testing instead of antigen testing! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Salzmann]] Does it need FFP2 masks or does the oral nose protection suffice? – It is a problem to argue and communicate in this way, because the insecurity and fear are a source of shock; it is above all also to ensure that you simply stop participating – and that is not the case, Minister of State. What to do Are you honest in order to prevent this chaos in the future? Indeed, there is chaos – and the address is, unfortunately, the address of government. Now to the universities and colleges: Yes, there is more money for universities, but for colleges there are hot 6.4 million euros – and those are peanuts in the budget. At the same time, we are asking the question – Mr Kuntzl has referred to it: When are you finally increasing the study aid? Students are at the limit, they suffer a lot from the inflation, and Studijobs have fallen away. What about student homes? Unfortunately, they do not invest anything in it – this is a conflict that we both have been carrying out for a long time. Unfortunately, students also suffer psychologically. What measures, Mr. Federal Minister, do you take to really protect students? It is your job to provide the best conditions for students. Unfortunately, we have not heard and read anything for 20 months. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] By the way, there is nothing to be found in the budget of Corona measures within the meaning of the students. Finally – my time is over – we ask you: [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] Take full care of your task and finally be a minister for children, students and students, raise your voice! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e44973	There is now no one to speak about this subject. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] This is also what I am going to conclude with this debate. As agreed, I will be interrupting this meeting by 9 a.m. tomorrow. We start tomorrow with the chapters women and equality, family and youth. – I wish you all a nice evening. The sitting was suspended. [[18:33:35]] [[The meeting was held on Wednesday, 17. On November 18, 2021, at 6:33 p.m. and on Thursday, 18th. November 2021, resumed at 9.05 a.m.]] [[09:05:20]] Continued the meeting: 9.05 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e45030	Ladies and gentlemen, I am entitled to the 129. The meeting, which was interrupted yesterday, will resume and welcome you again on the third day in old freshness. I should also like to welcome the ladies and gentlemen, if they are already here, and the ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the television screens. Welcome to the third day of the budget meeting! Today, as prevented, MEPs are reported Kira Grünberg, Dipl.-Ing. Georg Strasser, Elisabeth Feichtinger, BEd BEd, Dr. Christoph Matznetter, Rudolf Silvan, Herbert Kickl, Walter Rauch, Ing. May. Volker Reiferberger, Wolfgang Zanger, Michel Reimon, MBAund Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. [[09:06:03]] Address by the President on the occasion of current commemorative and action days
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e45096	As in recent years, the Austrian Parliament has supported the UN initiative Orange the World this year. On this occasion tomorrow, Friday, at the beginning of the meeting, a group photo will be taken with all the Members in the Chamber, and I can invite you to do so. Violence against women is also a topic in Austria. Every fifth woman will be victims of mental, sexual, or physical violence. Violence also increases in a special way in these times, it has many faces; it begins in the mental situation until it really turns to words and then finally into the physical form, the physical attack. In this year, there were 25 women's murders, the last case was to grieve in Villach last week, and our whole participation is mainly the family of these women. Orange the World, as I mentioned earlier, is a UN campaign. We shall take part in it and take part in it and light the Parliament's facade with orange light from 25.11. to 10.12. Hundreds of organizations worldwide are participating. This is a very special concern for us. On 10.12. is the Day of Human Rights, there is an end to this initiative. Even yesterday the facade was illuminated. In addition, I should like to point out that on the question of the inclusion of people with disabilities on 3.12. Purple Light-up day is. Parliament is also involved in this, and we are also making an event in the house. On December 1st, on the World AIDS Day, we will put the red loop back on the facade. Ladies and gentlemen! I know that all of this was pushed together at the end of November, at the beginning of December, of course, because the possibility of lighting in the evening is above all better given. We will also explain these lights to the audience with panels, so that someone doesn't think we only have a different color game at the Parliament facade every time, but we learn that this also has a reason for content. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] [[09:08:40]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e45136	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: Ms. Dr. Margarete Schramböck is Minister Mag. Klaudia Tanner, Minister Dr. Michael Linhart represented by Minister Elisabeth Köstinger. In addition, the representation of members of the Federal Government residing in another Member State of the European Union shall be announced as follows: Minister Mag. Karoline Edtstadler will be represented by Minister Karl Nehammer, MSc. As usual, the meeting will be transmitted by ORF 2 by 1 p.m., from ORF III to 7.15 p.m., then commented on in the TV library. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e45207	We have stated in the President that the day block time is 8 “Vienna hours”. There are therefore the following speaking times: 156 minutes for the ÖVP, 108 for the SPÖ, 88 for the FPÖ, 80 for the Greens and 64 minutes for the NEOS. The speaking time of Members who do not belong to a club is 32 minutes each, 5 minutes are envisaged for each debate. The division of today's discussions is known to you all. We are now continuing the budget consultation. [[09:10:01]] UG 10: Women and equality UG 25: Family and Youth
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e45251	We start with the UG 10: Women and equality, as well as with the UG 25: Family and youth. I would like to welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The debate is under one. Mrs Holzleitner has spoken. Please, Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e45278	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! Dear Seers! In principle, we recognise that the budget for women and equal treatment has been increased, but see – we have also announced this in the Committee on Budgets – huge gaps in the content of the paper, which I would like to briefly explain. Women were the crisis heroes – yesterday, today, and they are tomorrow too. They carry the lion's share of this crisis, whether in the job or at home, throughout the entire corona crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, the impact on women in the pandemic has hardly been eliminated by the Federal Government at all. They were simply ignored. This is not only what we see as SPÖ, but also our truly highly appreciated and high-quality budget service, which criticizes this in its analysis at several places. The objectives of the ministry have not been adapted in view of the pandemic de facto. Nothing has been added in the explanations, and the budget service confirms that “it is not enough taken into account” as no focus has been placed on equality. I believe that this is really a very revealing analysis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One issue is the gender paygap, so the fact that women still get less salary than their male colleagues despite high qualification and high skill. He climbs through Corona even more dramaticly apart. There are no measures in the women's budget to actually eliminate this gender paygap, i.e. this inequality treatment. We were and are allies in the topic of salary transparency. This is also addressed to the Greens: We were and are allies. – Let’s really do something in common, because the numbers are alarming: Women earn 500 000 euros in their lives – half a million euros! – Less than men! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This difference in income must not be taken into account. Finally take action, dear Federal Government and, above all, Mrs Minister! What we do not see in the budget is a right to a child training place. We will not be tired to stress that this legal claim could have been a reality in 2016 and still not found in the budget in 2022, stolen by Sebastian Kurz and still blocked by the turquoise head of government. That's really crazy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steinacker:... an insanity!]] [[Further call to the ÖVP.]] For women, for families and in particular for children in that country, it was necessary to have a right to a child training place. A little more technical: Gender budgeting, an approach that actually sets gender equality in objectives, and one that is really very important to me. Austria has actually been a pioneer in this field for a number of years, with gender budgeting in our constitutional ranks. However, the budget service has already found in a very comprehensive analysis in 2019 that we must not lose this pioneering role. We need to develop gender budgeting with a gender statement, an analysis, systematically summarising the gaps in the strategic objectives and individual measures, with a round-the-clock review, which is also monetaryly assessed and really stored with figures. That would be an extremely important development. Unfortunately, we have also received a rejection in the Committee on Budgets of the issue of gender budgeting. This would be very important in order to explain gender equality in the overall budget in a review and thus to be able to bring out really the best for women and for equality. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another trip to the field of violence: Before, at 8 p.m., the Austrian women's ring and the alliance were non-violent living at Josefsplatz held a rally. They call for EUR 228 million to be implemented by the Istanbul Convention, to which we all know. This demand for 228 million euros is not met, one tenth of it is fulfilled. The women's and girls' advisory services were completely left out. Even in the written budget requests, we could not even explain whether there is a campaign for the women's helpline because the detailed budget for 2022 has not yet been prepared in the women's ministry. Important campaigns are just floating, and that can't be. Violence prevention must be strengthened! Mr President, we have even reported 26 women's murders in this country, almost 50 were trying to kill women – murders simply because women are women. These femicides must belong to the past! This requires a sufficient budget increase. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] A very short view of the UG 25 you still have to allow me! ==References== November, Saturday, we celebrate the day of children's rights again. These children's rights have been greatly affected in the pandemic. However, child and youth organisations have contributed to all measures, have been solid, have engaged in neighbourhood initiatives and much more. Again, there is no indexing of federal youth funding in the budget, although the budget in this area has stagnated for 20 years. For 20 years, child and youth organisations have simply been put on the shelf track. We can't accept that in the sense of children's rights, in whose name we all agree on 20th. It will be released in November to celebrate it. A budget increase would be the minimum.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e45367	Mrs Pfurtscheller is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e45388	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the budget for women and equality has been increased by a legendary 81 percent since 2020. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Mrs Holzleitner, I now say to you that, for this very reason, you have not responded to this budget, but have talked about very different things that have nothing to do with this UG 10. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Yes!]] [[Abg. Greiner: Hello?! These are current...!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I could now replicate any of the issues that you have just put into the discussion. But I'm just trying to figure out one thing, because it's really bothering me most of the time, what you've been putting under us for weeks. [[Call at the SPÖ:... Numbers called!]] This is the legal claim for the childcare centre. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] They assume that 2016 has been prevented from having a legal right to a childcare centre. [[Abg. Bayr: That was the short!]] [[Abg. Einwallner: These are facts!]] [[Further call at the SPÖ:Kurz has prevented this!]] That's not true, and I'll explain it to you now. I also ask you to listen and stop repeating this untruth. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That was the short! That was the short!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] It was not about the legal claim for a childcare centre, but it was actually about expanding the afternoon care in schools first. Secondly, since that time our government has spent 1.6 billion euros on childcare in Austria, and more money will be spent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kucharovich]] [[Abg. Bayr: Without legal claim!]] The Minister will be negotiating with the federal states again next year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You don't have to worry: Childcare in Austria will be expanded in such a way that it is really useful for everyone. [[Abg. Bayr: Without legal claim!]] [[Further call at the SPÖ:... stolen!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... Childcare reason!]] [[Abg. Lord:... no legal claim!]] Now we are still on the women's budget, because we have made an increase of 81 percent. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Most of this budget will be used for the protection of violence. I would like to resist this because you always claim that – under quotation marks – “only” this money is used. That's not true either. There are very many ministries involved in the protection of violence. You know that very well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] The Minister, together with colleagues, has succeeded in increasing the total amount of money available for the protection of violence, for example in the Ministry of the Interior, in the Ministry of Justice or in the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Ministry of Family Affairs and the Ministry of Integration also make a greater contribution to the protection of violence. Finally, I would like to say that there is also a lot to be done in the ministries for the protection of violence, which is not included in the current package of violence. For example, police officers have been specially trained in the Interior Ministry for years. The aim is – you don't need to laugh, Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek, you know exactly – that at all police stations at least one trained person is present when a woman with violent experience comes to the police. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: I don’t laugh at you!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross]] There are recently support teams at the police in Vienna that accompany the women from the first minute, who accompany the cases and try to assist the police in such a way as to do the best possible for the women affected. I would like to add, because the SPÖ always keeps this off: Non-violence is not only a federal matter, it is also a matter of national and municipal law. A great deal is being done in the countries for the protection of violence. At present the women's houses are being expanded, for example in Tyrol, there will be a new women's house in my home country, in the Upper Country. In Vorarlberg, a really great forensic ambulance was opened at the Landeskrankenhaus, where the women are forensically examined in such a way that the correct data are available afterwards, in the case of evidence. Listen So you finally ask, finally, to say that nothing is done! Our women's minister has been interconnecting with all those who work in the field of violence, and has achieved a great deal in the last two years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e45629	Mrs Mühlberghuber is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e45656	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians at home in front of the screens! Yes, we are discussing the budget today, today we are discussing the area of women and family. In the family sector, EUR 7.7 billion is spent on family, children and youth support services, most of which are family allowances and childcare benefits, but also benefits such as family counsellors, school leavers and schoolbooks are financed from the Flaf. Family aid has been increased by exactly 12.30 euros over the last 27 years, since 1994, – 12 percent. The inflation rate was 57.4 percent during the same period. Yes, 57.4 percent in this period – this is a huge loss of value! Let's go to the child care allowance: It was introduced in 2002, and in this form it has never been increased at all. Instead, the reform of 2017 has partly even reduced. We are experiencing a constant inflation and currently a huge price increase, making the cost of daily life increasingly difficult for many families to vote. We imagine this as with other transfers, such as social assistance or the care allowance: This was adapted to the annual inflation rate in 2020, with automatic adjustment. In this way, we would also like to see this for family benefits – for family allowances, for childcare benefits. In this context, I put forward a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is another need for action, namely in the case of child support rights, in the maintenance advances. For this purpose 138 million euros are planned for 2022, which is 5 million euros less than 2021. It is expected that 90 million euros will return to the state by repayment, and then 48 million will remain. That means – and that is also fact – that the state remains at a loss of 48 million euros. I wonder, Minister of State, how long it takes for a reform to be made on this issue, on this important subject. In the committees – even last week in the negotiations – they always talk about justice, the Minister of Justice. In part, I even have to give you the right because the Minister of Justice is a green woman who hardly moves. You too, Mrs Bundesminister, should really get involved in this! There is a working group that has been meeting for four years now. We do not know an intermediate, nor do we know how far this working group has already negotiated or what is to come in this direction. I really ask you: Get in there, see that you will be involved in this working group! Help! Finally stop talking, act and help with the implementation! Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[9:26]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e45794	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Disoski is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e45819	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! While we have started our plenary debate here – Mr Holzleitner already has on it pointed out – outside the square women’s organisations, non-violent organisations, have pointed out that the protection of violence has been under-financed chronically for years that there has been no budget for the protection of violence. That was actually the case. When you look at the numbers: For ten years the demands of anti-violence organisations, women's organisations have not been heard, there has been no more money, there has been stagnation, last, under the turquoise-blue federal government, even cuts. But now, with the turquoise-green Federal Government, we have for the third time in a row increased the budget for the protection of violence across borders – for the third time in a row! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Mr Pfurtscheller has already pointed out: The women's budget, the budget in the Women's Ministry, has been raised by ten-comma-one-bitsl-what million euros to 18.4 million euros. That's an increase of 81 percent, and that can really be seen. This can be seen, above all, because it is not all. We have increased the budget for the protection of violence across the board. In the Ministry of Justice, there are almost 6 million euros in addition to the protection of violence, 17 million euros in the Ministry of the Interior for the Protection of Violence, there are important initiatives in the Ministry of Health, Social Affairs and Social Affairs, because in some cases cities, countries, federal states do not want to do so. In other words, it is very important to differentiate and clarify: Violence protection is, on the one hand, far-reaching, and on the other hand, as Mr Pfurtscheller has said, not the only task of the federal government. There are the countries, the cities, the communities in duty, and I would like to appeal to all those who are committed to more money, to invite them and to invite them: Also talk to your colleagues where you have government responsibility at other levels – there is still a lot to do. Col. Holzleitner, I've been listening to you very well. You have pointed out several gaps that you have named, whether it be child care offers, whether it be payment in jobs with a high proportion of women and a lot more, and indeed: You're quite right in the analysis of the gaps. Where I think we have a completely different opinion is if we are looking for an answer to the question when these gaps have come about. Because you spoke to the Genderpaygap: 20 percent earn women in Austria less than men, gross, measured at hourly wages. This has not been done in the last two years, and it has been the same before. What did you do about it? What? [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] You pointed out the risk of poverty of single parents. The last child cost study, on the basis of which support such as maintenance payments or family allowances will be measured, is the last child cost study from 1964! Why didn't you commission any new ones? – You didn't do that, we're doing it. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Childcare places: We know we still have air up there in Austria. We Greens confess to a legal right to childcare places, we will implement this together with the coalition partner. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] We have already taken first steps, for example, where you have been rejected, to close a gap: when it comes to the training of elementary pedagogists. They are the prerequisite that we can increase the number of childcare places, and that is what we do! Because you, Mr Holzleitner, said the consequences of the pandemic on women have been ignored by the government: The exact opposite is the case. Why, then, did we set up a 700 million euro work foundation, which has a dedicated women's policy focus – with training measures, with training measures in the field of care, technology and green jobs – to enable women to change? Why have we made sure that 50 percent of the AMS funds are used again for women? Why have we preferred different levels of tax reform, such as the social security bonus? Why did we initiate the payment of the extra child? – Just to minimize these effects on women. Finally – my speaking time is over – two or three things: Now, when we look at what has happened in the past two years, women and equality politics, we see that this is a lot. But there is still much to do, there are still many gaps. I chose a quote from Johanna Dohnal, which I would like to share with you at the end, because I think it fits very well with the situation we are in. From many sides, we have a rhetorical equality that does not fit very well with what is the case in reality. Johanna Dohnal once said – I can quote her –: “The jubilation of the end of the Patriarchate through the progress of women in many social areas is to be understood as what they are: Propaganda of Patriarchs and Postfeminists.” That's still true. We really have a lot to do. As long as we sit and stand here and talk about gender paygaps, gender pension Gaps, as long as we have the situation that press conferences and round tables are taking place, where men tell us what crisis measures are being taken, we all have to work together on a cross-party basis, and we will do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e45909	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e45930	Good morning, Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear citizens at home! I think it's a bit significant when the green government partner on the panel gives himself a mandate and the finding is that men communicate and also account for the crisis and that there is still much to do. I hope that this mission will also be followed by actions. You know the one or the other person in the government. [[I should like to congratulate Members of the NEOS and the SPÖ.]] We are starting the third and last day of this budget session with an important topic, namely women's and equality policy. As my previous speakers have pointed out, the increase in the female budget by around 3.8 million euros is very important. 3.8 million euros are really necessary for the protection of violence. A total of EUR 24.6 million will be budgeted for the protection of violence across borders. However, the detection of these funds was not particularly easy – thank you very much at this point to the budget service, which very much supported us in finding these funds at all. However, if one looks at what victim protection institutions have been calling for for for years, namely, 228 million euros more and about 3,000 more jobs in the field of victim protection, then these 24.6 million euros are already very quickly relativizing, and thus also the self-esteem of the government groups. Apart from the violence package, I would like to talk about many other issues in women's and equality policy, because women's policy is more than just violence protection. Women's policy is labour market policy, is health policy, is social policy, is education policy. It's going to be a problem. In addition to the increase in the protection of violence, the Women's budget no longer provides funding for women's policy matters. Unfortunately, the discussion in the Committee also makes it very clear that, as Minister of Women, you have only very little coordination in this very important field of policy. It is deeply annoying what you do not feel responsible for: not for the already flown funds in the field of violence, not for sacrifice-based perpetrators, not for campaign work for the breast cancer month – keyword women’s health – not for job projects for the age group 50 plus, not for the maintenance package. Even on the question of your own coalition partner, how you, as a woman's minister, want to examine the targets for gender equality, you can see the responsibility of the Vice-Chancellor and the experts of the gender mainstreaming and gender budgeting working group. – I do not know how you are, but I wish that the Minister for Women has some expertise in some areas and is also able to provide comprehensive information on essential issues of women’s and equality policy. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Salzmann.]] [[Abg. Sieber: Got it!]] . I do not know which committee you were in, Mr colleague, but in the committee I was in, that was not the case. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] It is also remarkable that the Greens do not address you with the questions of the implementation status of the gender budget, but directly to the budget service. Gender budgeting is still insufficiently implemented in the Austrian budget. The budget service is therefore proposing a so-called gender budget statement which would show how the budget is actually gender specific. Perhaps you will think again about this proposal. I think this is a very good proposal, even given the fact that the gender paygap in Austria is still 5% higher than the OECD average. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In summary, you can say: If the government were to spend only a fraction of its budget on advertising, saving propaganda and spending instead on women's and equality policies, then Austria would be quite different.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e46010	Mrs Plakolm is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e46031	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Youth policy is, of course, a cross-sectional matter, and I would therefore like to address a little more generally the budget we are discussing in these three days. Last year, due to the corona pandemic and its related expenditure, we unfortunately had to record a record deficit of 22.5 billion euros, and the debt ratio rose to almost 90 percent – exactly to 89.6 percent. These are just numbers, and you might think: Yeah, that's right, we can't change that!, but that must make us think very clearly, especially the taxpayers of tomorrow. However, I would also like to make it clear that: Every euro that has been invested in recent months to secure a job to boost the economy in order to ensure social benefits and assistance packages, every single euro to make us get out of this crisis faster, is absolutely properly invested and used absolutely properly in these months. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] But of course there are also two sides in this medal. In the long term, of course, we have to return to the goal that we have set ourselves since 2017, since the ÖVP and Sebastian Kurz have been at the forefront of responsibility for Upper Austria, which has been taking over responsibility for Upper Austria, namely to our goal of reducing debt – yes, in Upper Austria we do so as well – and to allow opportunities. [[Abg. Sieber:... Upper Austria...!]] Just as one cannot spend more at home than one is available, so we also have to deal responsibly with tax money. This upholstery, which we have created in recent years, in which the economy flourished well, when there was no mention of Corona, has enabled us to have a substantial scope for action, which is why most of the industries have now returned from the economic crisis and have recovered and high employment, especially among young people. This strong growth, which has now brought us out of this crisis more quickly, must be used to reduce the debt ratio for the next generations. At the same time, this is the best provision for the next crises. You don't know what can come. For us, however, debt reduction is also meant not to use the savings fund on a flat-rate basis, but to set real priorities, to address real future issues and to become more efficient. We owe a slender state, especially with a successful social system without the principle of foundry, to the next generations. A sustainable budget with an eco-social tax reform shows not only how we deal with natural resources, with our environment, but also how we deal with the financial resources – because they are also limited – and what opportunities we leave for the next generations. This is eco-social and this is mainly generation-friendly. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Rössler.]] In the last few weeks, the Parliamentary Directorate has provided us with a lot of data and information on the budget, one of which was in the happical form of the so-called budget tiles. As Members of Parliament, we have received this paper with all the figures and facts for the coming year. This budget tile weighs plenty of 12.7 kilograms – 12 kilograms of cast policy. We must do everything we can to ensure that the economic upturn continues and that we do not pack the full 12 kilograms into the debt backpack for the next generations, but reduce the burden on the shoulders of our children in the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e46083	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please, that's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e46104	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! And, above all, valued spectators! We are also discussing the family budget under this item on the agenda. I would like to address the situation of the families in Austria. 20 months of pandemic – 20 months of pandemic, which means major problems for many families, the reserves are exhausted. If one has received the one-time help from the family hard work, it has long been spent. Even the much praised family bonus is not a real bonus for all families. Especially the families with small incomes, the single parents and vulnerable families benefit relatively little or no from the family bonus. 180,000 children are still excluded, women and single parents are massively disadvantaged, with only about 30 percent of those involved. Performance must pay off. The performance providers would be rewarded with the family bonus, so it is said in the argumentation. However, it is forgotten that not every service is paid accordingly: Childcare, household care and care, for example. Many of these benefits are provided by women, of course, and without payment. It is also not taken into account that single parents often replace the second parent and work in poor paid jobs. But these are not benefits that must be rewarded in the eyes of the government. In order to combat poverty effectively, there is a need for urgent progress to be made in the field of the provision of services, particularly the rapid development of childcare and care. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This would bring more to all families and their children than the current model of the family bonus. While the government programme provides for a substantial increase in the funding for elementary education, it does not find itself in the budget. At least 33 percent of the Barcelona target should serve as a guideline but is still unambitioned by 31 percent. We could have gone much further if investments in childcare of around 1.2 billion euros had not been prevented by the interests of power. Dear Mrs Family Minister! 20 months of pandemic have left their tracks. The rate of infection is fast up. An end to the health crisis is not to be seen, not least due to the lack of crisis management of the Federal Government. It is your job to improve the situation of all families, and especially vulnerable families now need financial support quickly. Therefore, due to the particular challenges and the strained financial situation of many families, we make a request for an extension of the family hard work. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask for approval to give support to the poorest families in Austria too. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[9:43]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e46230	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly implemented, and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Grebien is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e46254	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear Colleagues! Dear guests here at the gallery and also at home! Last year, I already spoke on the issue of women with disabilities about UG 10, stressing the importance of participating in women with disabilities when it comes to anti-violence measures, for it is still true that women with disabilities, especially women with learning difficulties, are heavily affected by sexualised violence. At this point, I would like to point out that men with disabilities are also more often affected by violence than men without disabilities. As in the overall society, it is men who exercise physical violence over men. Last year, there was a funding call from the Ministry of Women under the co-financing of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The association Ninlil, of which I was allowed to tell you last year, dear colleagues, has submitted a great and important project; it says: Resources for women with disabilities affected by violence. The objective This project contains four parts: to create a brochure in light language that helps women affected by violence; to implement the brochure as a website in light language, also translated for deaf women in the Austrian sign language, because we know that it allows low-level access; also to design workshops on how to use this book, the website; and to show how to deal with relatives and relatives of people with disabilities. Today in June it was so far. The brochure and also the website are ready. [[keeping a copy entitled “Force backpack – For Women* with Violence Experience” in height]] I can show you the brochure, this book. It's called force backpack. The website is www.kraft-rucksack.at. This is, as has already been said, a book on the one hand, but also a website. You can download it free of charge from the homepage or also send it. Please distribute that! Take a look at the homepage! Give it to your networks! This is a particularly important instrument. This book has four parts. The first is “Knowledge on Trauma”. The second: “How am I doing?” these are exercises to feel and recognize. Part three is ‘Emergency exercises’. And in part four it is about “exercises for good times, ” that is, this chapter. That's how you can find new forces and pack them into your power backpack. I now quote in light language what is in the book, but also on the website: “This book” – this website – “is for women* who have experienced violence. It could be a few months ago. Or many years. Bad experiences can also have consequences after a long time. Suddenly, they feel bad. Even though nothing happened right now. This Internet page – this book – “will help women* to get better at such moments. For this we have written” – Ninlil – “on the internet page” and in the book “many exercises. Women* can [...] put together their strength backpack for the emergency. This power backpack can accompany them in difficult moments. [...] All information and all exercises are available in sign language.” “The Internet site is not a substitute for advice or therapy.” For example, you can get help with the women's helpline. This is an emergency number for women. “There you can call day and night. The employees* are known throughout Austria. You can tell you where you can get the right help.” “The women’s helpline can also be reached through the relay service”, so that deaf women can also take advantage of the offer. “There is an Internet page with information for deaf women to protect against violence.” It is called www.schreibgegenkraft.at. “You can go to a women’s conference post. There are people all over the world who are well aware of violence. Together, it is considered how women can get better*. [...] Women* with violence experience often have problems with the consequences a long time after. But all have strength in themselves. Force that they needed to survive violence. We hope that this book helps to feel the strength. And to find new and other forces. All women* have the right to a good life without violence!” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e46320	Mrs Rosa Ecker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e46342	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear Bureau! Ladies and gentlemen here in the hall and at home! The women's budget increases to 18.4 million euros. This is a real and important step. You, Mrs Minister, say that the budget is rich and that the women's organizations are satisfied with the fact that the places of violence have been financed. At the same time, however, this week the Austrian women's ring and the alliance live non-violently to a protest action before Parliament because the money is not enough. So what now? Enough money? Too little money? Ladies and gentlemen, it is not always just the money. It may also be because we need more targeted measures. We need more projects, more prevention measures. We must wake up society on this alarming issue of violence in the family in Austria and win people to watch and not to look away as well as to recognize the potential for violence of – unfortunately, it is so – mostly men who also very often have foreign roots. Mrs Minister, what actually happened to this three-digit emergency telephone number? It needs the possibility of a quick, uncomplicated cry for help, which immediately comes in response and support to which the police come before the murder happens, and not when it is too late. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] I've been talking about it before: There is an SOS app in Spain, Belgium and France, which offers real support in this respect. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, violence is important, quite clear, but women's policy must not be just violence. Mrs. Minister, you always emphasize that women's policy is cross-sectional matter – then we really urge you to work together with your ministers in this cross-sectional matter and to implement the issues that are open to women in Austria: the protection and support in domestic care, the Coronabonus in the care and health field, at all the conditions in the care, projects to close the income difference, the protection of women at risk of poverty in retirement. Many women do not receive an independent pension. They raised children, they cared for their parents, they never took care of child care at the expense of the general public. Where does more recognition for care work remain, where do your measures remain for the appreciation of typical women's occupations and where does the annual evaluation of family benefits remain? These family benefits must be laborious for families to get together on twenty individual pages of the homepages of ministries. It's easier, it's faster – we use digital progress! I should also like to make a request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Minister Raab, Austria needs a women's minister, a woman's politician who is committed to the concerns, interests and life realities of Austrian women and is even more committed to doing so because, despite alarming developments in the field of violence against women, women's policy is more than just violence protection. [[Abg. Sieber: That's what we have!]] [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] [[9:53]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e46545	Both motions for resolutions are properly tabled, sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The Vice-President is hereby informed of the matter. The word stands with him. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e46570	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Ecker has just said that we need a minister who works for families and women. – I am glad to be able to say that we have such a minister with our wife Minister Raab. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Mrs Minister, as a family speaker, I really want to congratulate you at the beginning. If you know that Austria has an extremely high family budget with more than 7 billion euros – 7,687 billion euros – in international comparison, you can simply congratulate yourself for achieving an increase again. Ladies and gentlemen! With these 52 million euros of increases in the family budget, much is possible. It is possible that the funding of family benefits, such as weekly allowances, childcare and family allowances, is ensured, and that the increased payments, such as weekly allowances, school leave and social security benefits, have also been provided with the same provision. But it is also important to mention – I think we should not overlook this as a family politician – that the budget service has also clearly predicted that in the positive economic development of the Flaf – the important instrument financing the family benefits in our country – from 2022 on again will write surpluses, and this should be a major concern for all of us. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Neßler.]] It is also important – it is also a long-standing and expressed wish – that more money is available for family counsellors and child protection centres from 2022 onwards, namely additional 3 million euros, and I think that is also a real, important signal. Although the family bonus is not an immediate family benefit, it is a tax benefit, I would like to point it out. With the increase of the family bonus from 1,500 euros to 2 000 euros per child per year, families in this country are supported significantly and sustainably. It is 75 million euros in estimate 2022 and 1.55 billion euros from 2022 to 2025, which are available for families, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is a wonderful, great step in my opinion. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Rössler.]] In the social field, for families with little income, we have increased the amount of children from 250 euros to 450 euros – also this is an important family policy performance that cannot be stressed enough. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] One has to say that this additional amount of children is even paid as a negative tax, so for those who do not pay taxes, it is also paid as a negative tax. What is not mentioned, but it should also be said here, is that for children over 18 years of age who are in education, the family bonus has also been raised to 650 euros per year and child. But since it is said again and again that the cold progression would eat all these measures and that the left pocket is, right pocket, I would simply like to say to you: Let us read together what the budget service says in the budget analysis! The budget service says very clearly – I would also like to thank Dr. Berger for always providing us with the best documents –: ‘The Cold Progression has been more than balanced since the last major tax reform in 2016 by the measures decided and planned since then [...]. In 2024, wage and income tax revenue will be increased by approx. 5 % lower [...]. In particular, households with children are better placed because they benefit from the family bonus.” – This can be read in the analysis of the budget service, and I would like to stress it twice and triple. Ladies and gentlemen! This government from ÖVP and Greens clearly acknowledges that we will continue in the future, that the service providers, those who work hard in this country, will also be relieved and that families will be supported by us. Finally, Mrs Minister, I would like to thank you once again for the result achieved and wish you every good for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e46655	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of The word stands with him. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e46676	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! If we look at the proposal of the family budget as NEOS, then for us the provision is that there are good solutions for all families in our country – whether the family is with a traditional understanding in which a person is in the main acquisition and a second in part-time or completely focused on child care, whether the family in which both parents are in employment, or whether the parent is alone. But when we look at this family budget, we see that it has not changed in fact compared to last year. In detail – that is, I believe, very important – it is so that this government has set itself the goal – both the ÖVP and the Greens – that it takes great action in the case of father participation, but also in the compatibility of family and profession. For example, the reduction of bureaucratic barriers to child care benefits and to the father's month, the reform of father's care and also of the father's month, the improvement of the compatibility of family and work and, most importantly, the expansion of the comprehensive needs-based childcare, quality and quantity, with more flexible opening hours, and the expansion of afternoon care. These are the goals of the Federal Government. Not too long ago, chats were published indicating that in the past half of the Federal Government, especially through the former Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, actively prevented the development of comprehensive and quality childcare. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Salzmann: That's not true!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – The louder the ÖVP shouts, the more true is the message that is being proclaimed here. [[New call of the abg. Salzmann.]] I don't want to go into the chats too long now, you have Their consequences have already been drawn, but fact is, Sebastian Kurzhat, in his political effort to take power, betray all parents, adolescents, parents of already older children, our babies, our kindergarten children, our folk school children, our children in the secondary school. He didn't do anything else. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Salzmann: It's not true...!]] No matter how loud you shout now, Mrs. Colleague – I would like to return to the objective of the government, namely this comprehensive extension of childcare. I asked the Minister – because there is nothing contained in the budget for this, it is not enough money to ensure that this important measure actually comes into existence – where and how the money is invested, so that we can get to this comprehensive childcare. What was the answer? – The answer was: The establishment and operation of public elementary educational institutions and the promotion of private services are the responsibility of the countries and municipalities. – That is, in fact, the Federal Government has once again set itself a goal which it itself does not want to achieve in any form, because if you want, there is also a way – and there ends any understanding of us NEOS. Very important: There are several elements that of course very busy families. One thing is – and you're very happy to talk about it – the question of income, which is the family bonus, child care allowance, various ways to earn in the karenz. This is all important, but the other thing that really affects a lot of families every day is time. It is the need for you to know that your child is well cared for from the first day of the day, for example, in a kindergarten or in a crib. The offer is too little throughout Austria, even in Vienna the offer is not enough. This is indeed a major issue for people who work, and you have done nothing about it in this 2022 budget. A second point, and that only shortly, because he is also related to child care a bit far and generally to the family budget: The Family Compensation Fund will write profits from next year, not because of the ability of this federal government, but because of the ability of entrepreneurs, because of the rise and rise in service providers' contributions. We believe that this is the right time to talk about further reducing service providers' contributions to the Flaf. I ask, Madam Minister, that you, in particular, work to ensure that in the future our children receive better, more quality, comprehensive care, that you do not talk about the federal states and that you do not continue to shrink the entrepreneurs in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e46761	Mr Sieber, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e46786	Mr President. High house! Mr Bernhard said in his speech that in 2016 it was prevented that 1.2 billion euros should have been provided for the development of quality childcare. - That's wrong. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is true, rather, that this EUR 1.2 billion should have been used to promote a red prestige project that the entire school in restricted education would have been aimed at excluding all the federal states, and this is not to be done with the ÖVP! [[Objection to the SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e46825	This too is not an actual correction, but a political note. Mrs Dziedzic is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e46849	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Values Watchful! I would like to point out something fundamental in this important debate, apart from the Party's political struggle: Equality is not a privilege. Equality is a question of how we want to live together as a whole, regardless of gender, orientation and identity. It is never about a policy for minorities, as often co-ported, but about equality policy, about social policy for all. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Especially through the pandemic became visible, also in Austria, how fragile these social achievements are. Women are the first to feel political decisions. They are nurses, doctors, mothers, bosses, they are – and this has been said more often here, and I can only confirm it – the true system owners. Women's policy, equality, LGTIQ rights are not, therefore, in vain a measure of how a state is written, in which constitution is our entire democracy. If young people are killed in Austria because they are not supported by their sexuality and orientation when a certain group is excluded from the blood donation without any need, if a same-sex couple does not receive an apartment or a hotel room, if every fifth woman in Austria becomes victims of violence, then this is not a problem for those concerned, but it is our responsibility to guarantee the responsibility of politics, anti-discrimination, protection from violence, access to equal rights. Why, of course, is this not a matter of course? How is it possible that in Europe, for example in Hungary, education in schools, diversity in films, other forms of family are prohibited by law? How is it possible that women in Poland die of pregnancies because authoritarian politics wants to determine their bodies? – The answer is always the same: It's possessive thinking. It is the subordination of women and minorities under violence. It's access to their rights, right up to the next femicide. It is the banishment of the labour market, the detachment of any charitative activity on them, the curtailment of educational opportunities for girls or also the sense of beauty that women have often landed on the operating table in young years. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, does not happen by chance, all that – one cannot repeat it often enough – is the development of a patriarchal way of thinking in the Europe of the 21st century. ==References====External links== The fact that we still have the same rights and self-determination to fight for more resources today is, honestly, an advantage. Gender equality, I repeat, is not a privilege, it is a written right, but unfortunately still no living practice. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] Why is that so? The question is always the same: Cui bono? Who benefits? Who benefits from the fact that only a few have these privileges? Who benefits from maintaining these patriarchal structures? – It’s always the same; I don’t think I have to add them up here. What it is about me is to say that we will not leave this privilege to these few in Austria, that equality is something worth us, and that is why every single increase that has been mentioned today is important to approach equality at least a few steps. In this sense, Mrs Minister, thank you for your further efforts. I hope you will take this seriously when you say that the elimination of the Patriarchate is still going on and on in the 21st century. The main challenge to equality policy is the 19th century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e46910	Mrs Lindner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e46931	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not possible to discuss the budget of women and equality without addressing the probably worst fact that our society is facing today: 26 Women's Murder – 26 women murdered by men – in 2021 alone! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is a crisis of men's violence, a crisis which is certainly not a women's issue, but is created by toxic masculinity and sexism, a crisis that must be faced above all by every man. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Mrs Federal Minister, there is also a need for decisive policy action and, in accordance with the Istanbul Convention, a coordinating role for you within the Federal Government. Even if you repeatedly emphasize what you are not responsible for, in the Committee on Budgets, in response to questions and in public opinion, this does not change. Both when it comes to the budget and to political pressure, the Minister of Women remains the central interface in the fight against violence against women. You must finally take this responsibility seriously, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and MEPs Meinl-Reisinger and Künsberg Sarre.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the large-scale package of anti-violence in this government is just a drop on the hot stone, and I am not even talking about long-term disbursement processes and high levels of claim. Above all, this package does not solve the structural problems within our society. This budget does not provide sufficient resources for preventive work with boys and young men or for the long-overdue basic funding for the man-advisor offices throughout Austria. Yes, sacrifice-oriented culprit work is important, but the structural problem of male violence will only be solved if we invest in comprehensive modern prevention – and you finally have to worry about it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This unwillingness to work on comprehensive and structural solutions for more equality in Austria is not only found in women's policy. When it comes to gays, lesbians, bisexuals, transients, intergender and queer persons, this budget does not offer any means and objectives at all. While LGBTIQ people have experienced an unprecedented wave of discrimination and violence in the public sphere in recent months, there is no budget for the anti-discrimination of this group. While you, Mrs Bundesminister, stress that individual initiatives, which deal with this issue, will receive part-funding from your area of activity, we do not need to talk at all about comprehensive offers of structural support for this community or even of inclusive child and youth work in this area. Your German sister party, the CDU, pretends how different it is: The CDU-led German Federal Government alone spent 7.8 million euros in 2020 only for explicit LGBTIQ work – for anti-discrimination work, youth work and, above all, active public work of the German Federal Government. 7.8 million euros – and by comparison Austria: 0 euros! Let me get to the point: Violence, discrimination and hatred are increasing, which is evidenced by the experience of LGTIQ organizations, but this shows even the Hate-Crime report of your government. In order to counter this development, not only does it require the executive, but it requires active and courageous prevention work by the Federal Government and, in particular, the Minister for Equality. As long as we experience almost weekly that people are attacked for their sexual orientation or gender identity, politics must not look away for so long. Her policy of looking out and not being competent, Mrs. Federal Minister, must finally have an end!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e47006	Mr Melchior is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e47028	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! For us in the People's Party, the family is a central element. [[==References====External links== Fireplaces.]] [[Abg. Brandtätter: “You’re a family!” “Get everything you want! ”]] [[Further calls to the NEOS and intermediate calls to the SPÖ.]] . You, Mr Brandstatters, certainly have a total right to call out here now, always find the right words here, and if you could do it from time to time, put your frustration against the ÖVP a little, I swear to you, it would be more pleasant for you to be here and enjoy life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'll tell you one thing: In the last few years, we have launched very important measures in family policy. I am very glad that with the family bonus we have put something on the way, which is a real relief for the families. However, we have now taken this step and will increase the family bonus once again, to 2 000 euros – 2 000 euros for each child. This measure benefits so many people, a total of 950 000 families in Austria. This means that, if you count all family benefits in Austria together, we are in third place in Europe in terms of family benefits. That's really a great success recipe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, and I am particularly pleased, family advice also increases by 23 percent to over 15 million euros to ensure that families are supported and accompanied in difficult phases. In addition, in the age of digitization, we are also concerned with setting new standards in the school book sector. There is also an increase of another 6 million euros, and I would also like to congratulate very much on it and wish it much success. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e47089	Mrs Shetty is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e47111	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to start with a shaking message that some of you may have heard: Last week was held in Vienna in the 13th century. District a young man who had been out of his mother's house beating and beating in the hospital. There was a police intervention and the policeman was also attacked because the mother, the parents were so out of place about what is actually so obvious, namely that this young man had told his parents that he was just gay. This is just the tip of the iceberg, because we know that in Austria we still have a massive problem with homophobic violence. This is also demonstrated by the study by the EU Fundamental Rights Agency, which shows that in Austria 10 percent of all LGBTQ persons have experienced physical violence over the past five years and 40 percent have experienced discrimination at work in the last year. Austria is not good at this, Austria is at the top of the EU average – but not in the positive sense if you understand what I mean. Mr Marchetti complained yesterday that the opposition always criticised everything and here separates every single budget. Apart from being part of the core task of the opposition in a democracy, the control function is: What else is left of us, especially in this area? If you look into the budget, you have to see how much this government is worth LGTIQ people, not a single cent. No specific project, no action plan is devoted to this area. In addition: If you, Mrs Federal Minister, are asked in the Committee for the implementation of the ban on conversion therapies – something that was unanimously decided in the National Council and for which you are referred to in the resolution as the competent minister – then you say that is not your responsibility. If you're asking for psychological support for LGBTIQ youths in the outing process, you're saying that's not your responsibility. And if you're on the The fact is that the suicide, i.e. the tendency to suicide, in this group of persons is narrowed to indiscriminate, then you say that is not in your responsibilities. I can join my colleague, Brandstötter, and ask you: What's in your responsibilities? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In the women's field too, you are very similar to many projects, which, as it were, go a little towards cross-sectional matter. In conclusion, and also in response to what Mr Marchetti said – the opposition criticises only – I would like to say: In this area, we are not just criticizing. In Vienna, where our Vice-Chairman is also responsible for this area, namely for equality issues, we will implement something very concrete, in this legislative period, namely the first queer youth centre in Austria. So we'll create a safe space for LGTIQ youths. The process will start next year, and this will be implemented in this legislative period. I would also like to take such initiatives from you all over the country, Mrs Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e47162	President. — The debate is closed. - I'm welcome to ask you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e47183	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! Today, I can talk about the priorities both in the women's and equality sectors and in the family budget for the coming budget year. I am really pleased that the women's budget is EUR 2022 18.4 million – almost EUR 4 million more than in the previous year, EUR 6 million more than in the previous year and around EUR 8 million more than in the year before my appointment. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Disoski and Mr Neßler on his work.]] For the third time in a row, we have managed to make more money available to women in Austria. Austria has never had such a high female budget: 81 percent more than at the beginning of our common legislative period. Much of this money flows into the protection of violence. This is so important to us because we want every woman and girl in Austria to be protected from violence also within their own four walls; that we create a place of refuge for every woman, girl and children in Austria and that every woman knows where she finds this place of refuge in Austria. Victim protection is not only financially secured with the increase in the budget – that is what the representatives of the Violence Centres have told me in this way – but also increased the offer for those concerned, it is substantially expanded, for example through additional advice on security police case conferences. This, ladies and gentlemen, is also more than necessary, for domestic violence can never be private. This is all our concern, and it is our overall social task to fight against it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] With the May 2021 package of violence, many other departments also draw on this strand, especially the interior resort, but also the judicial centre and the Social Ministry – and because it is always spoken of: Yes, of course, we in the Ministry of Women see our task in coordinating the measures to protect violence within the government, but it can never only be the It is up to us women and never only the women's minister to take action against violence in Austria. This is our overall social task, and that is why this approach and this effort are reflected in the budgets of the other departments – and that is also good and true. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The basis for a non-violent life is a self-determined life, a financially independent life for women. It is therefore important that we also invest in the strengthening and self-determination of women with the new budget. We need to break up the classic role models. We also need to inspire girls and women for the future industries, for natural sciences, for technical and mathematical professions – wherever the money is at home; wherever women and girls can earn more – in order to make a contribution to closing the miserable salary shears in Austria. And we also need to make a contribution that every girl in Austria can become what it wants. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We have therefore already launched this spring a call for funding on the subject of empowerment of girls and women with a focus on these technical industries. I have already made available 1.6 million euros from the women's budget last year, and we will continue to do so. The other projects from my department – such as the so-called Mint-Girls-Challenge or the national Girls' Day – are also intended to help raise awareness among women and girls: these sectors are simply attractive sectors, that these sectors are not only men's sectors, but also future sectors in which we need the smartest minds – and they are also girls and women in our country. The basis for the self-determination of women is that she is financially independent. Therefore, it is also a priority in the women's budget that we promote women in the labour market. Of course, this cannot only be the task of the Minister for Women. Therefore, in the Ministry of Labour, we have focused on the promotion of women by the labour market service: There is an disproportionate promotion of women in the AMS budget. Support increases to 4 percent, i.e. 4 percentage points more funding is available for unemployed women than it corresponds to their share of unemployed people. This is a positive discrimination against women, if you want to, because it is important that we focus so that women can gain financial independence through the job. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The coronajobsive will contribute a large part. A total of 700 million euros are available for this from 2020 to 2022. So far, 54 percent of women participating were women. I would like to thank Minister of Labour Martin Kocher very much for the fact that he too is concerned about equality. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, women in our society really do overhumane, even in the crisis, whether in the economic and labour market field, within the framework of social engagements, in the care of family members, as we have heard today, but also, of course, as mothers in the family. It is therefore important that we create framework conditions to relieve women, but of course families in general. And yes, I would like to expressly say at this point: We will also increase the number of childcare places in the coming years. We will create more places for the care of small children in kindergartens and groups of children. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This, of course, is not only the task of the Federal Government, but also the states are responsible for constitutional law. That is why it is our duty as the Federal Government to support the countries. Negotiations with the federal states on childcare have already begun, and I am pleased that we have made a clear commitment together with the government partner to the development of childcare. This will, of course, be illustrated in reality in the coming years. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] A second task that this budget fulfils is to relieve families in general. There are different family benefits that we implement in the family ministry, and a family benefit or a relief measure for the families is the family bonus. We have now increased the family bonus from 1,500 to 2 000 euros per child. This is far more than the increase in the government programme. This is also good and important, because especially in the Corona crisis, families need special relief, the families need special support. Because it was also mentioned: Also those families who cannot benefit from the family bonus because their income is not so high will be relieved. We will increase the amount of children from 250 to 450 euros, so that single and single women will feel a financial relief. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Disoski and Mr Neßler on his work.]] With the higher family bonus and the additional child amount, we create a discharge of a total of 600 million euros per year. 1.75 million children in the country will benefit from this. Another focus is that we not only support families in the family context, but also, of course, children, especially when it comes to education. We have therefore also foreseen in the budget that the resources for the school books should be increased again. In concrete terms, the budget for the next school year will be increased by 6 million euros, and in total, 130.6 million euros will be available. It is important to: We will also move schools step by step into the digital age, and the school books will make a contribution to this, because more money can be spent on digital school books, for the so-called e-books. Education – and, of course, that our children are being made in the field of education in the digital age – is a very central measure in the family policy field, so we invest very strongly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] A topic that was particularly important to me, because I myself grew up in the country, always had a very long school path, because I also now live in the country and see how much it can burden families if the school path of children is not safe, not enough infrastructure is available: We have also raised the budget for children's free travel by an additional 4.4 million euros on the occasion so that children can be given a safe way from home to school. This is a very important measure for families and children in the regions. Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that we are among the top three in the family sector across Europe, as far as family benefits are concerned, and I am pleased that despite the fact that we have already been well established in recent years in international comparison, we have succeeded in investing in the family sector and again in taking the money for the relief and support of families in our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We want every woman in Austria to be able to choose the life model she wants – compatibility between family and work, but of course also child care. Home. We want every family to be able to organize itself as it wants, and our task is to create a framework for it to succeed. I am pleased that this budget makes these conditions possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e47347	Mrs Neßler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, that's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e47368	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers and Seers! I would like to start with a little more encouraging, namely that the budget for promoting family advice has been increased by 23 percent. This is urgently necessary – I think it has never been so urgently necessary, because the families in the pandemic have suffered not only under the economic consequences, but also, of course, among the psychics. This begins, for example, with the overload of women, above all those who have worked in health professions – we know that 80 percent are women in the nursing sector – and above all, it is women who are constantly required at home. A lot has already been discussed: It is about the extension of childcare facilities – the Minister has already explained that we want to force their expansion. I would just like to say that this is so important for the following reason: If we want freedom of choice for women, we also need a possibility that this freedom of choice can be considered. Of course, it is true that we have not yet achieved the Barcelona goals after 19 years, which is sad reality, and I would also like to thank all ÖVP delegates who have expressed their right to justice. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, I would also like to take the time to address another issue on which the colleague of the SPÖ said yesterday that, in principle, too little talk about it – that is so – and that is child poverty. Statistics Austria recently published a study, which is alarmingly showing that 36 percent of children do not receive maintenance payments or replacement benefits from single parents. A total of 372 0000 children are in a permanent crisis because they are affected by poverty, and I think we agree that this is already 372,000 children. The government has committed itself to halving child poverty, and of course this cannot happen in a ministry, that must happen across all resorts – with all effort, for these are those children who cannot go on school trips, these are those children who are in a permanent lockdown because they can't invite friends to their home, and these are those children who can't celebrate birthdays either. We have often discussed what the pandemic for children, for young people in terms of psychosocial health, and I think we can all imagine that children who are affected by poverty are even more affected. To be financially poor, ladies and gentlemen, not only does it mean that you have less money, that is, often also to be socially excluded, and to be socially excluded is not only an unpleasant feeling, it also affects the health of our children. That is why it is our job to ensure that children can be children – without fears of the future, with no financial pressure and no reduced opportunities. This is what we are working on – child cost study, which was commissioned last in 1964 – and we are working on the gaps in maintenance. close – this has been provided for in the Government Agreement since 2008 and since then nothing has happened – and we are working with full force to get closer to our ambitious goal of halving child poverty. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To stay a short while with the children in the pandemic: I've already said it looks like this at the moment: From January to August 152 babies were hospitalized due to Corona; yesterday we heard in the media of a 15-month-old baby, whose life is fought in the Vöcklabruck hospital. If you've seen the pictures, you can imagine, as I believe, what this means for your parents and the baby. I appeal once again to all the women who are pregnant who have a child's desire to be vaccinated. Thanks to science, we have an effective tool in the fight against this pandemic, a means that could save us so much suffering. Ladies and gentlemen! I am now also consciously saying this in the direction of the FPÖ: We should listen more often to science, trust in science, than to the so often tried house mind, behind which in the final effect only science creation is hidden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e47428	Mrs Schatter has now come to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e47450	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The women's budget will also rise in 2022, which is good and right. We have heard this many times, and you seem to be satisfied with this budget, but: But can you be satisfied with a female budget of 18.4 million euros? – I say: No, no, no, As a member of the board of directors of a women's advisory office, as a politician who really is a major concern for the protection of violence, as a women's politician, as a feminist, I simply cannot be satisfied with a women's budget of 18.4 million euros. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Yes, the funds for the protection of violence have been increased – we recognise this and we see that a corresponding increase in the budget has also been made in the other ministries. This is also urgently necessary in the face of 26 femicides this year, given 224 femicides since 2014 – 224 women who have been murdered by their partner, ex-partners! We can't just do that because we can't rest on the one we've reached now, Mrs. Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Deputies Krisper and Seidl]] We have to keep working on it every day. But what happens away from the protection of violence in the women's resort? – We are currently experiencing that women are particularly affected in this corona crisis. Many studies confirm that women have been burdened several times and the pressure on women has increased enormously. But where do we actually find the means to counter this? Still women work free of charge compared to men 68 days a year, the salary shears have still not closed. Where do we find the means that are concrete to counter this? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Where are the funds for increasing basic funding for women's and girls' advisory services, which would have been so particularly required and so urgently needed in this crisis? Where are the additional 3 000 places in the anti-violence facilities, which also live by the Austrian women's ring and alliance, so urgently demanded? And even if the ÖVP doesn't like it: Where are the additional resources for the extension of childcare facilities? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Where is the child care billion that Sebastian Kurz2016 prevented in order to stimulate and promote his own personal career? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fürlinger.]] Mrs. Minister, if you, as you have said, take the compatibility of job and family seriously, if you really want to take active action there, then you have to claim this right to childcare, then you must also demand these childcare billions in the budget and ensure that the compatibility of work and family is actually possible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Yes, every euro and cent invested in the protection of violence is correct, important and necessary. But, Mrs Minister, as a woman minister, the struggle for a self-determined life must be the struggle for economic independence of women, the struggle for real equality must always be your priority goal, and this must also be reflected in the budget accordingly. In the end, it is also a means of violence and a measure to prevent violence. In this sense, I cannot be satisfied with this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e47543	Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e47564	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Sabine Dear, we come from the same district, the district of Perg. Unfortunately, in one point I must contradict you when we speak of child care, of more than 1 billion euros and of the year 2016: This was not a right to child care, for example for two, three or four years old, but it was no more and no less than a mandatory afternoon care. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Oh yes!]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] [[Call the SPÖ:No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] This makes sense on a voluntary basis. However, if we are talking about compulsory afternoon care, restricted total school, then we are no longer talking about football training or music hours in the music school at 2 p.m. or 4 p.m., but then the children are only more in school. [[ongoing calls to the SPÖ]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign again]] And that's not our access. That may be right for Vienna, but not for all of Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call at the SPÖ:... are you of the ÖVP that you can say the untruth here?]] At some point, the time is when you give the truth the honor and say what it really was about and what it wasn't about. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, the budget of almost EUR 7.7 billion, which you manage, allows us to maintain our position towards monetary family benefits in terms of cash benefits in line with the fact that many projects can be further developed, for example, on the compatibility of family and profession, i.e. important things. I think that in some cases, however, it is important to take into account what region you are at home in. A mandatory claim to certain things is certainly much easier to make in a city or in an agglomeration room than in rural, peripheral areas that are sparsely populated. In these things, I think, one simply has to refer to the realities and see how one can achieve solutions towards the future, so that the families have the options in the future, but more opportunities to reconcile family and profession have been given. That's an important point. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The family is the germ cell. I believe that the children in the family – even though the family image may have changed a little; we have many patchwork families – learn a lot, for example, that there are rights and obligations, that it is also about borders and that one takes care of each other. I have heard in school, among other things, that my freedom ceases where I limit the freedom of others. When I think about the phase of the fourth wave of the corona pandemic, I have to say it might be time to think about it: What is my personal freedom and how do I limit the freedom of others? Dear ladies and gentlemen – and here I am especially addressing those who are watching us now – it is also about not believing everything that can be found on the Internet, but actually relying on experts. And if the vast majority of scientists and physicians say that vaccination is reasonable, then it will probably not be wrong. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] It is not quite in keeping with the fact that a political group in this House is behind this House saying: More than half of us have been vaccinated anyway, but outside says: That's terrible! Such a fool, we don't need that, we don't do it! – Let’s just look at reality! Let us take note of things, but let us also see that in society we do what is important in the family: consider each other, think about what contribution we can make, then perhaps we will do better together! [[Abg. Kollross: Say to the Haslauer!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e47698	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek has referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e47722	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Prinz has just claimed that the 2016 agreement would have included a commitment to the afternoon care of children. - That's wrong. [[Abg. Sieber: No, that's right!]] I am actually correcting that a right to afternoon care has been agreed in a 1.2 billion euro package. And it was eroded by: Sebastian Kurz.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e47779	That too was not an actual correction, but a political assessment. The honourable Member, Maximilian Köllner, is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e47846	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not understand the praises that some of the ÖVP colleagues have put in here – especially on your own – because not when it comes to families, as we have just heard from colleague Gabi Heinisch-Hosek, or when it comes to youth, something has really happened. I'll tell you why. The youth budget – perhaps starting with youth – stagnates at a low level. Youth promotion has not been valorised since 2001, not adapted to inflation. That means nothing but a standstill for 20 years – and the figures do not lie. No matter if this is the case with the young Members here in the House or perhaps the young people here in the House: Since I was here in the House, it has always been said that the youth strategy is being implemented, that we are talking about promoting youth work, supporting youth organisations – but ultimately we are talking about hot brie if not even the homework is done, namely that you are adapting youth promotion to inflation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Young people: 300,000 children and young people in Austria are affected or threatened by poverty, which has already been mentioned. You yourself have written in your government program, you want to fight poverty in the families. Only: I alone lack faith, for for example, if you look at the budget in terms of poverty risk ratio, you find nothing that shows that you want to reduce it. The family bonus does not help, even if you highlight and praise it here, because it may come to the turquoise family, but not to those who would really need it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] On the contrary! 70 percent of the people involved are men, and he benefits above all those who deserve well anyway – and that is the joke. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: And they don't belong to the family or how?]] [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: Do not men belong to the family?]] [[Call to the ÖVP: The 1,500 euros earned!]] The bonus does not come to those who would really need it, namely, women and children. That's the point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Women would benefit significantly more, as has already been said, if, for example, there were investments in the development of childcare. By the way, I would like to repeat this: We have not forgotten that Sebastian Kurz for his own advantage – for his own advantage! – the Austrian families and children stole these childcare places, Mr. Collegue! [[Abg. Beak: That's still not true, even if you say it 20 times!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Beak:... 20 times say it is not true!]] He stole the babysitting places for the families! [[Abg. Eßl: This is a lie!]] You now have the chance to make up for this: So here with the babysitting billion, here with the right to afternoon care!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e47993	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the position of Mr Jeitler-Cincelli. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e48014	A nice morning! Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! What is the picture of women when you follow today's debate and followed yesterday's debate? – We have the single, caring mother in her exaggeration with the current measures. We have stressed entrepreneurs. We have women with migration backgrounds. We have a wide range of women outside: We have the quota woman or supposed quota woman in the Supervisory Board, we have the victim of violence in a toxic relationship. There are all these women – and there are still a lot more. Do you know what the interesting thing is? – That our phases of life are often so interconnected that we can develop permanently that we have the opportunity to stand up so that we can become the best version of ourselves. That's life, that's development, and often it needs a new invention. It is a heart concern to me that we do not judge a woman in any form, but that we support her in her situation, where she stands. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] This requires small instruments. The magic word is empowerment for me. I usually prefer German terms, but self-authorization sounds somewhat bulky. I think empowerment is what we need. These are programmes from a very small point of view, such as: My body belongs to me. At this point I say thank you to the Lions Clubs, which have accompanied about 250 000 children for a decade, for the fact that there is this program where children learn to perceive the body, to separate themselves, and to teach little girls to say no to sexual assaults. I would like to address Mr Schnedlitz, who is unfortunately not in the hall right now, and his inconceivable speech, which he streams there about Facebook, which is being shared thousands of times. He uses or abuses this claim several times: My body belongs to me. No, the body is something - - Yes, the body belongs to us women. Originally, this claim comes from the Feminism movement, which is about abortion rights, about abortion rights – this is exciting again. Mr Schnedlitz, I would like to tell you one thing – perhaps look at it later on: You don't have the right to abuse this claim for discouraging people from vaccination, for saying: We live in a dictatorship. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] I believe that 15 000 new infections speak for themselves. I think we have different steps to take here. It takes initiatives to bring girls into Mint subjects. My colleague, for example, will create a foundation for this so that the girls will also have this pleasure in the Mint subjects. Our Mrs. Minister and Ms. Schramböck recently founded a joint award. It needs financial education for girls. Of course, it also needs child care issues. Mr President, just because you say something 20 times, it doesn't get any more right. [[towards Abg. Köllner]] It is done very, very much here. Evi, to what you said earlier: [[towards Abg. Holzleitner]] We know now that it's a Motherhoodpaygap. The real Genderpaygap is only a few percent that you can explain. We need women to think about them doing more hours earlier, so that they don't get into this poverty trap. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Who?]] Our task is to support women in all stages of life. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] – Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, I don't understand you. I think every woman's success should be an inspiration for other women. I think if we fire each other, accompany each other, then we are the strongest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e48076	Mr Bernhard is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e48097	I would like to refer to a speech by Mr Sieber, whom I am not seeing right now. In my previous speech, I referred to the chats of the former chancellor Kurz, whom we all know, – I see colleagues in the meantime – and I have said that he has betrayed our children because he has prevented the afternoon care, the right to childcare from the first year of life. [[on abg. Sieber, who takes his place, significant]] There was then an actual correction, which was very bizarre, because the colleague of the ÖVP claimed that the ÖVP had prevented, in particular by Sebastian Kurz, a social-democratic “prestig project”. I looked at the chats again. You have to understand. What's been said? In short, a message was received from a Mr. Schmid, in which he writes: “We need to look after banks. They want to discuss this on Monday and decide”. Chancellors – Christian Kern – and Vice Chancellors – at the time Reinhold Mitterlehner and Mahrer and Co. “Objective 1.2 billion for afternoon care with legal claim and agreements federal communities without countries! Mega explosive!" So, and what does the former chancellor answer? – He says: [[Abg. Sieber: Without countries!]] “Oh, don’t be so good!!- Oh, my God! How can you stop that?” – Say: How can you stop the legal claim and the agreement between the federal government and the local authorities regarding afternoon care? [[Mr Pfurtscheller and Mr Sieber: Without countries!]] He says: “I am terrorizing Mahrer,” bli, bla, blubb, who is known. So: In short, Mahrer is terrorizing. And then Schmid says: “I don’t sit in there”, “Leider”. Then he says: Can we heat up any land? [[Abg. Sieber: Because they all...! Without countries, that's what it's all about!]] The ÖVP therefore urges that countries are not involved in the development of childcare and the legal claim that has not worked for years. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Pfurtscheller and Mr Sieber.]] I would just like to say one thing, Mr Sieber: Both Christian Kern and Reinhold Mitterlehner had much more format at the base of their political career than the people who wrote this chat. You have to say that before. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Sieber: That's what it's all about! Without countries!]] What we are talking about in the budget is that we can ensure afternoon care for children everywhere and that we finally implement this legal claim – a legal claim that has not been there for five years only because a gentleman has prevented him from doing so. Last but not least, the Chamber of Commerce, Karlheinz Kopf, asked him to say: We support this. I wouldn't have read this again now, but the fact is that this happened five years ago. Things we've needed urgently for five years have been postponed for five years.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e48189	For business treatment: Member of the Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e48216	Mr President. High house! I am now speaking on business treatment because of what is going on in this debate, even on actual corrections, which are not first and which, on the second hand, always misrepresent a situation. [[Abg. Bernhard: (an expression of the chats he quoted) No!]] You can preach as long as you want, it wasn't! [[towards SPÖ and NEOS]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is simply the untruth that is always claimed here because one wants to do something bad to a person. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Köllner.]] I was a Member of Parliament at the time, and I can well remember this debate between Kern and Mitterlehner and the rest of the ÖVP. We are also responsible for federal states and municipalities. It was a legal claim for children from the first year of life and a compulsory all-day school for all children. [[Deputies Greener and Heinisch-Hosek: No!]] This will not happen with the People's Party – not at the time and now. [[Abg. Lightness's got that hand.]] I'm asking you not to do so. You've got these constant precepts.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e48292	This was, of course, not a contribution to business treatment. First of all, I should like to say that we are delaying the interruption we have been considering for a standing presidial for 10.55 a.m. to 12 p.m. Mr Leichtfried is speaking on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e48322	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We have now experienced that several ÖVP delegates have spoken here and have demonstrated the untruth with respect to certain transactions – and this with great inner conviction. It is legitimate to say here that other Members speak and clarify this untruth. If you can't live with the fact that Short has prevented this afternoon service, this legal claim, then I can't help you either, ladies and gentlemen. [[towards ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e48352	That too was not a word for business treatment. I think we can have it used now. [[Abg. Scherak's got that hand.]] – Please, a word on business treatment, which will be either none or one already.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e48383	Of course, I will talk about business treatment, and I would like to make it clear, because Klubobmann Wöginger said that in several actual corrections something was said here, which was not actual corrections, that only makes it clear that Mr Bernhard spoke and did not make any actual corrections – that is, something which is of course permitted under the Rules of Procedure, namely that Members speak and express their views.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e48412	Mr President, I have already corrected myself; I have meant this in the past; of course, this was a word for business treatment. Does anyone else want to contribute to the debate on the Rules of Procedure? - No, I don't. Then we continue in the order: I call Mrs Deckenbach. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e48441	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Seers! I am not going to address it now, because I am still convinced that falsehoods have been said here. I would rather focus on the fact that I would point out that the budget for women and equality has already increased for the third time in the term of office of the Federal Minister Raab. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, I can understand very well if you perhaps have to take note of this as a former woman's minister. I cannot quite understand, however, that it is always criticized that the Federal Government is doing too little or nothing, especially in the field of violence and violence prevention. I would like to use these minutes to explain to our audiences, in particular, what has already happened, what will be and what has been and will be made available to budgets. In 2021 it was 14.6 million euros. There were already extensive measures to strengthen the protection of violence at the time. I would remind you at this point that in May 2021, the Federal Minister Raab and other members of the Federal Government have provided 24.6 million euros for the largest violence and violence campaign in recent decades. This includes, for example, EUR 5 million for organisations offering advice and assistance to victims of violence and EUR 3 million for child protection centres. In addition, family counsellors are supported throughout Austria. In order to ensure legal and psychosocial process support for women and children, 3 million euros are provided. 1.5 million euros are available for family jurisdiction, and 0.5 million euros are invested in crime work and anti-violence training. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Budgetary policy is also the major priority for 2022, with 18.4 million euros, the package of measures against violence against women and the strengthening of violence prevention. In this context, special projects for women with migrant backgrounds will be supported, inter alia, in the area of violence centres, victimised crime prevention and the development of family advisory services. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our responsibility to continue giving violence no place in our society and to give support to all concerned. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Financial resources are important. In my opinion, however, it is no less important to pay attention to what we can do as part of society, and to pay attention to how we deal with each other, both in private, professional, and also in political life, for we are all concerned with the protection of violence.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e48491	Mrs Gertraud Salzmann is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e48514	Madam President. Mrs Raab! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The spokesperson of the SPÖ, Mrs Holzleitner, is now, I believe, not inside. She criticized a lot, but I'd like to say to you: Everything is not a way for us either. We in the ÖVP, together with the Greens in our government, are looking where the problems of women's equality lie, and we are also addressing these problems, I can assure you. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Together with the Federal Government, we are committed to equal opportunities for girls and women at all levels, and you, Mrs Minister, are one of us, with which we are very much committed to women and women's affairs. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Within a few years, they have managed to increase the women's budget from 10 million euros to 18.4 million euros – within a few years! – and I think that clearly demonstrates the concern that we have with the Federal Government, namely, that in this area for women, we are moving much further. We want to set very clear and strong signs with you. This 10 million euro increase to 18.4 million euros is not everything you know. Women's issues and women's affairs are a cross-sectional matter. This is also contained in many other departments, such as education, the internal, social, judicial, scientific, and, of course, the military. This budget is a clear sign to support women as best as possible. As far as the protection of women from violence is concerned, you, Mrs Minister, have already given very important signs in recent years that very important measures have been taken. As President of the ÖAAB Federal Women's Party, I am very happy and grateful for the fact that women affected by violence have a dense network of advice centres across Austria, to which they can contact at any time and where they also get help very quickly. We want to promote equality in many areas. We have enshrined equality in the law. This is clear to me as a lawyer. However, we must make equality happen in society, we must create equality in our minds. When I hear that representatives of the public do not give their hands to a woman on public occasions, but then give hands to the men who are present in representation of their functions, when I hear from schools that fathers refuse to talk to teachers because teachers are women, then I emphasize: That's just not going on anymore in 2021! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We know that girls are still affected by forced marriage in Austria. We estimate that the 5,000 girls are threatened with forced marriage. In view of this, we need to take very clear measures and steps in this regard, and I am convinced, Mrs Minister, that in joint cooperation we continue to take a great deal of protection for our women. It's clear to me, too: Education and training are key to equal opportunities and equal opportunities. We need to address this area much more closely. We will ensure that women and girls enter the technology and the Mint areas much more strongly. We will hopefully work together to overcome the old stereotypes and role images. We need more pay transparency in the companies. In addition, we must certainly do much more about the poverty of women. I just call it part-time, because it will need our joint effort. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In 2021, the disadvantage of girls and women no longer has any place; this must not be tolerated. I would ask everyone in here, whether men or women, whether from our group or other political groups: If we help together, we stand for it every day: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e48589	Mrs Tanda, I now give the floor to you, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e48611	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen at home and in plenary! The issue of women and equality is a cross-sectional issue, which we have heard several times today. But what does it really mean when something is a cross-sectional topic? – This means that gender equality concerns all areas of life, and that is why this equality objective is also included in all budgets or in many budgets. The gender equality target map has 35 subgroups, and 29 of them explicitly mention the gender equality target. This concerns the health budget – I spoke yesterday about gender medicine – the budget for family and youth, the budget for the employment department, the budgets for science and research, for internal affairs, for military matters, for the Federal Chancellery and so on. In all these budgets, measures are being taken to achieve the objective of gender equality. We have gender differences. Now only! For me, however, it is very important to note that these differences can be enriching for our society and should not be used to discriminate against women or to exercise power and to exercise power. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Measures to protect women from violence and discrimination are essential. It is equally important, however, that measures be taken to improve the compatibility of work and family life. You have to say: Economic independence contributes indirectly and substantially to the protection of violence, because – quite simply – if you are financially independent, you can leave this vicious circle that can go. However, if you hang on the money exchange of the perpetrator, you are simply much more emotionally arrested and you are no longer out of this vicious circle. I therefore also welcome the measures to reduce or resolve the gender paygap – this term is much preferable to me. I am pleased, Mrs Federal Minister, that you too have used this word in your speech, because it is not just about reducing it, it is really about abolishing this gender paygap. In the association and company I run, 150 employees work, and we don't have a gender paygap. With me, men and women are paid for the same performance and the same working time. That's why it's a very big concern to say: It is up to us women that when we push through the glass ceiling and get into leadership positions, we will be chiefs, please also implement that we not only anchor it in the law, but also pay the same wage for the same performance. It is not only about economic improvement and equality, but also about a comprehensive gender equality. This includes improving the opportunities of women in the labour market, as well as facilitating access for fathers by working fathers, for, as my colleague has already said, a family has, please nice, also a man, gel, and not just a woman. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Einwallner and Mr Lindner.]] There are really many fathers, I want to say that here, and I also found them in the company that goes in Karenz and is supported by me, so that they can go to Karenz and, when they get back, find the same job they have left before. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Similarly, the unimpeded access of disabled people to the labour market is part of this. Finally, I would like to take this out: In the field of science and research, the equality goal is so beautiful: ‘A balanced gender relationship in management positions and bodies [...]’. – This fair division of management tasks I wish not only in science, but also in the board of directors of large companies. Of course, equal qualifications are required, but then please also necessarily equal pay. This also requires a clear goal that we, I think, have across all ideological boundaries: Equality, namely the equality of all people in this country. Unfortunately, since Rome was not built in one day, I would like to end by quoting Lothar de Maizière. I would rather have this transformation towards a more just reality at the pace instead of at the pace, but as Lothar de Maizière says: “Politics are [...] the art of the feasible and not the absolutely desirable.” – But it comes Christmas, you can wish for it anyway. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e48686	Next speaker: Mr Joachim Schnabel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e48710	Madam President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen in front of the monitors! The 2020 budget and the resulting eco-social tax reform, which is a budget of discharge. It is a budget for the economic location, for climate protection and, in particular, a budget for the families in Austria. With 7.7 billion euros, Austria, as already called by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and by the previous speakers, is financing a variety of family benefits: Childcare, family allowances, family hard work, schoolbooks, digital schoolbooks, student and apprentice-free travel and a lot more. To sum up, this means that with our financial family benefits in Europe, we are among the top three of all states. Austria is a country of family kindness, but Austria is also a country of family friendly communities. In the Ministry, the Family & Profession Management GmbH is located, which is certified in this area of municipalities, and 560 municipalities have declared themselves as family-friendly communities. Through a process of citizens and citizens, measures are being developed to help our young and young parents and children on the ground – locally tailored – to achieve the best possible compatibility between family and work. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Rössler.]] I myself am chairman of a family-friendly region, the only one in the Styria, and can generally recommend to all communities to address this process, because we can really do great things in the communities, on the spot, together with the families. A word on the legal claim, dear SPÖ: They act as if with a right to child care, all the challenges that exist in Austria in this area would have been solved, but that is not the case. It's not true either, when you say Sebastian Kurz has prevented this 1.2 billion euros. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner.]] This has been rejected several times and has already been discussed. In total, EUR 1.6 billion has been spent in the last few years for the extension of childcare. The federal government, for example, is financing the establishment of the children's cribs. That's good and right. We are expanding the shells, but the shells alone are not enough to provide an adequate childcare offer on site. Mrs Disoski has already said it today: We also invest in the training of educators, because they too are important. They are actually the needlehole so that we can offer appropriate childcare on site. Not even in Vienna you can offer complete, continuous childcare. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Every year, you need about 500 special permits to exceed the group size so that you can make a sufficient childcare offer. I'm also a municipality federal chairman of our district, and I have to say that SPÖ mayors come to me as well, saying: Please do not put this claim into effect, it falls into legal proceedings that cause us enormous costs, in claims for damages! Let us look at Germany where the municipalities have to pay 20 000 euros or 30 000 euros. This money can really better invest the municipalities in the families and in childcare. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, outside this EUR 7.7 billion we have in Austria the family bonus, which we increase with the tax reform to EUR 2 000. This is another step towards tax justice, to justice between parents and families who care, and those taxpayers who do not care, and also a tax justice for those who go to work. That is why it is so important for us to relieve the workers, the performance providers and ensure that all of them at the end of the day remain more net of gross. It is important to us, and this is the great credo that pays off work, that work is worth it and that families are supported accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e48789	Mr Mario Lindner spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e48816	Madam President. Mrs Tanda has claimed that a man belongs to a family. That's wrong. I'm actually correcting: A family can also consist of two women.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e48843	Mrs Corinna Scharzenberger has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e48865	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear taxpayers! You can't repeat it often enough, and I think you may also be proud of it, Mrs Federal Minister: The women's budget has now been increased by 81 percent for the third time in a row since your term of office. Of course, the women's budget can be always higher, but a good budget is the one to use it goalfully is the other. This is very different from social democracy: that we use the money where it is urgently needed that we set specific priorities instead of distributing the money of taxpayers with the casting can. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] After a debilitating debate and actual corrections, I will be the main focus of the women's budget 2022: It is the protection of women from violence. In order to prevent violence against women, we will spend a total of EUR 24.6 million in the various ministries in accordance with the next federal financial framework, especially for anti-violence centres, the development of women's and girls' advisory services. In November the Orange the World initiative will again take place. With this initiative, we draw attention to the sad reality of violence against women and girls. Every fifth woman will be at least once in the Victims of psychological, physical or sexual violence. There is a wide range of advice centres, for each woman there is a shelter and a way out of the spiral of violence. The police are also available day and night. The fight against domestic violence, even though it often happens in its own four walls, is a social task. It is all the more important that violence is the budgetary focus in the women's budget 2022. But what must not happen in Austria is that affected women do not seek help due to dependence. Unfortunately, there is still a large wage difference between men and women – and I am therefore coming to the next priority, equality. Women still earn 14.3 percent less in full-time jobs than men. So there is a need for targeted measures to strengthen women. We need the same wage for the same work, and we need a rethinking in the choice of profession by stopping tracking stereotyping. Let's break up old thinking patterns! There are no taboo areas for women, we can be anything we want. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] But we all know what challenges and obstacles we face in everyday life. We are all daughters, ladies, friends, granddaughters, that unites us, in which we are the same, therefore women's policy is a matter of all of us. We can all make our contribution, each of us. If we trust each other more, we increase our courage and give our young girls more confidence in the way! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e48922	I am no longer in favour of the subject area which has now been debated. I'm going to end the discussions on this. I thank Mrs. Susanne Raab. [[11:22:29]] UG 20: Work
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e48946	We get to the UG 20: work. I welcome Mr Martin Kocher. We are going into the debate in a moment. First speaker: Mr Josef Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e48983	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to the labour market chapter. In the area of long-term unemployment, we still need great action. I quote from the October 2021 AMS report and the budgetary analysis of the budget service. According to these reports, almost 270 000 people were reported unemployed. 114 600 of them are long-term unemployed, representing 43 percent of all unemployed persons. In comparison, in October 2019, before the crisis, it was 94 000 people. In other words, despite the high level of economic activity in October, 21,000 people are still affected more by long-term unemployment than before the crisis. In particular, it concerns people with low qualifications who have health limitations, and especially older workers. Although the employees of the AMS, whom I would like to thank very much from this point of view, do excellent mediation work and although you, Mr. Federal Minister, have budgeted 250 million euros in the budget for 2022 and 50 million euros for 2023 on the chapter on active labour market policy for the Springboard, the question arises whether we can achieve our common goal – because it was always our goal to support you – to reach below 100 000 long-term unemployed in the coming months to 2023 – your declared goal is 95 000. We all want us to succeed together, but on the part of SPÖ we are convinced that there is a need for more incentives for older people who are in long-term unemployment to get into public service jobs – in the federal government, in countries, in communities – and especially in the aid organisations. Our proposal, action 40 000, Mr Federal Minister, is known to you. If we had implemented this earlier, if we had already started it, it would certainly have helped us, especially in the fight against the pandemic, when it really needed a springboard in various health and care areas, but this too was sleeping by this Federal Government. [[Abg. Obernoster: Well, well, well!]] In theory, Mr. Federal Minister, the project springboard is beautifully depicted. Unfortunately, in practice and in reality it looks different. I would like to give you an e-mail from a affected 60-year-old from Lower Austria, whom I have promised I will do – I quote – this: Dear Mr. Muchch! I trust in you that you will keep speaking to Mr Kocher in your conscience so that those responsible in the ÖVP will finally have a realistic view of the current labour market situation. It is no good to say that the unemployed want to get back into employment quickly if they stop taking businesses because of their age. The AMS is also without any chance. My supervisor does very good work, but he's on lost job when companies always say no because of age. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] I myself am 60 and just get nothing more, despite very good training. You can't deal with my unemployment benefit. After more than 35 years of work each month, I have to resort to my decades of savings that would have been intended for the pension. Unemployment benefit is urgently increased significantly, gradually depending on the length of the insurance period and adjusted the emergency aid to the level of unemployment benefit. You are being muttered by the constant cancellations, you already need a solid nervous costume in order not to suffer from it psychologically. - Quote. That's exactly what it is about, Minister of State, that's the reality. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In conclusion: Mr Federal Minister, if you want to help, you also have to take action. I think the time is there, the pandemic will catch us up more than ever before. These people have no chance to come to jobs, so an adjustment of emergency aid to the level of unemployment benefit is more than socially justified. I would like to ask you to support us in this request with your colleagues in your ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[11:28]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e49097	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Ernst Gödl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e49122	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! What you did not say in your speech, dear, dear colleague Muchich – you are also from Styria – is that in recent months we have received all-round and only positive news from the labour market, only last week's statistics. It is currently around 22,000 people less unemployed than two years ago, that is, before the Corona crisis. I said yesterday in my speech on social policy: The best social policy is an offensive labour market policy, because work is, of course, important to generate an income to be able to live in order to preserve his family, but work is also a very crucial part of sensory fulfillment in life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why we need to work together – I am fully involved in Beppo Muchich – so that those 271,000 people who are currently unemployed have a realistic chance to find a job. It is certainly also due to the corona pandemic that in recent months such a strong focus has been placed on labour market policy. Of course, it was in times of Lockdowns – we hope that we will survive the next time in spite of all the signs – because it was very important to secure jobs. The first tool for this was the extension of short-time work in order to ensure income as well. When you look at the numbers, which is very exemplary: In 2019, we spent EUR 2.2 million in Austria for short work on the part of the Federal Budget, in 2020 – i.e. in Last year, in times of the pandemic – 5 500 million euros, this year we expect about 3,000 million euros, and next year we have foreseen 200 million euros in the budget, which is much less. So we hope that this phase of short work will no longer be necessary to the extent that it was in the high-phase of the pandemic. But active labour market policy: This one has a very special meaning, Beppo Muchich has referred to it. Yes, it is a very important task to combat long-term unemployment. Beppo also mentioned the current number: At present, about 114 000 people are long-term unemployed. But what you did not say, Mr Muchitsch, is that in April of this year 148 000 people were unemployed for a long time. So the previous programmes have managed to reduce the number of people from 148 000 to 114 000 within seven months. So a large number have already found a job again. So this was active labour market policy, which has also been fully implemented by the government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For the coming year, we will have the Springboard action, and we will certainly be able to reach the 100 000. I'm sure that's what I trust to say today. With this 250 million euros, which we will also use for the Springboard action next year, we will put in place further important measures. There has never – certainly also due to the pandemic – been such a great qualification offensive in the Second Republic as in the current year and as it will be in the coming year. Up to 700 million euros are planned for three years in order to qualify the unemployed, thus clearly combating the large shortage of skilled workers in various areas. 100 000 unemployed people are expected to benefit in this area of the coronajobsives. So that all of this can be done well, of course we need a functioning AMS. There is also a great deal of thanks to all those who are trying to do so. However, for staff to be increased there, an additional amount of 33.5 million euros will also be made available for staff and property expenditure in the future budget. Finally, Mr Federal Minister, thank you also for the initiative to review and rethink unemployment and unemployment insurance. You started a reform process: In two weeks there is a common unemployment insurance summit, a survey here in Parliament, to discuss together what we need to do to better reconcile this mismatch – on the one hand, many job openings – on the other hand, a significant number of unemployed people. We are going to push forward these reforms together. The budgetary requirements for this are, in any case, very well created with the 2022 budget. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e49192	Next speaker: Mrs Dagmar Belakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e49213	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the devices! Federal Minister! We are now talking about the budget for the labour market, for employment, which is really essential for everyone. As Mr Gödl said, work is meaningful – also! – but it is, of course, the basis of existence. To that extent, it must be the common goal – one of the very few goals, in which, of course, everyone in the house agrees – to keep unemployment as low as possible and to bring as many people as possible into jobs that are actually adequately paid. That's the common goal. Of course, the entrances are always a little different. However, if you look at this labour market budget, you have to say honestly, Federal Minister, it's like a normal budget, it's like a continuation. It is not taken into account that there may be a lockdown again. So on the one hand you pushed this away, on the other hand you have the passus inside that you can increase the budget for any short work by decree. Now, of course, we know: This could be a duck, but we may already know in a few hours what actually comes to the Austrians. However, this also means again – if there is a lockdown – that the tremendously prized full employment which is not noticeable for nearly 300,000 people in the country will not be achieved, that we will again have a very high level of unemployment and that many people will actually get out of the labour market. That's something we don't actually use - - how am I supposed to say? Of course, no one wants that, but the government has no other recipes in its corona policy than permanent lockdowns. Everything else pushes her away, so that's obviously the only mode she finds. This is already leading to major problems, Mr. Federal Minister! In your budget, it is actually not shown at all that you expect unemployment to rise again. My previous speaker already praised the action springboard that way. I've got to say a little bit about this, too: Yes, there have now been some long-term unemployed – but it is not the very large number – fortunately in employment. [[Abg. Gödl: 34,000!]] Each individual should be congratulated. Yes, it is beautiful, it is over 30,000, but it is still 115 000 who are in long-term unemployment, and when the next lockdown comes, it will become more. That's just the way it is. Although you have made 250 million euros available for this action for the year 2022, 2023 will look thin again, it will only be 50 million euros. [[Abg. Gödl: There's still to come...!]] That means, obviously, when planning, you assumed that you will do all of this in 2022. That's what we're very excited about. I think it's a little ambitious what you're doing. You should already see this as a program that you are running for at least that long until you have actually pushed down this quota, that is, far down, that is best actually in a four-digit area. You didn't do that. Or also the Coronajobsive: It is estimated that 170 million euros will be spent next year. That's all right, but 2023 is already a zero budget in this respect. That means with all the things you're doing here, you're planning for the short term, and then everything has to be good again. They do not respond with this budget to the challenges that we are actually facing. They are constantly drawing only on these very optimistic economic forecasts. We'll see: I'm so sure it won't last. That's what I have to blame you, Minister of State! You must have this in mind, remembering that this pandemic is not over, that there can always be problems in individual areas, throughout the labour market, even if You keep in mind how you and this entire federal government react every time and actually do not bring anything religious together. One point – that is really a matter of concern to me, and that is something new – for which you, as Minister of Labour, are also responsible: the care in this country. They are responsible for the 24-hour care, these are all employees. You know, Federal Minister, if I see in the social media how caregivers who are in front of their own hospital against a vaccination obligation are being accused of how a national councillor of your party stands and insults unvaccinated caretakers as a death angel, then I would also expect clear words, because every single person here in the hall should consider whether he might need this unvaccinated nurse any day. We don't want anyone, but no one knows if he doesn't even have to go to a hospital – for whatever reason – and then it's exactly these unvaccinated caregivers who will take care of you, ladies and gentlemen. They didn't deserve to be insulted as a death angel, not even by any Austrian radio journalists, who don't have to like it. There I would sometimes expect clear words of politics, but there I probably waited in vain. Keep in mind all the measures you take, what you can do with it when you put on the thumb screws even closer to these people, because then we are really at the collapse of the health system! [[Abg. Hörl: You are the angel of evil, Mrs. Doctor!]] I warn you that we will then also prove with a vaccination the 24-hour forces that come from the eastern neighbouring countries that are either unvaccinated or vaccinated with vaccines that we do not recognise in Austria. [[Abg. Hörl: The liked angel!]] When we put them all in the head, because we're telling them: You must now follow this vaccination obligation, you are practically active in the health field!, then we will have a very big problem in the field of 24-hour care, Mr. Federal Minister. – I would also like to share this with you as Minister of Labour, because you, of course, also have a responsibility for workers in this area. And because you, as a member of this government, are also buying it, that maybe even caregivers who do not bow to this pressure because they refuse vaccination in this way will cancel, let themselves be cancelled, and because you are planning lockdowns, there will also be an increased unemployment. I think we have a great responsibility towards those people who are now deliberately sending you back to unemployment, and I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think you also have responsibility for people who willfully drive you into unemployment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[11:42]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e49377	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mr Markus Koza, you are speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e49401	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate on the 2022 labour market budget is marked by a gratifying decline in unemployment and economic recovery. Unfortunately, however, this recovery is still on undulating legs. First of all, everything needs to be done in order to be science-based, evidence-based and in all consequence to cope with this fourth wave of the pandemic, so that we can actually keep these gratifying figures. Today's media reports, which have just been received, at least indicate that there is a certain degree of seriousness in the fight against pandemics, which, I think, has become long overdue and necessary. Overall, the current recovery on the labour market is also very visible in this budget. We can best see this on the one hand on the expenditure for short-time work, on the other hand also on expenditure on unemployment and emergency aid. When we consider that in the years 2020 and 2021 we spent a total of 9 billion euros on short-time work and about 1.3 million workers were reported for short-time work at the peak of the short-term work in April 2020, and today it is just over 70 000, we see clearly a recovery effect, which is logically reflected in this budget. For short-term work, 200 million euros will be planned in the next year, with the possibility of extending short-time work even in 2022, in the case of a new intensification of the pandemic. At the same time, we are also looking at the expenditure on unemployment benefit, which has started to relax on the labour market. While in 2021 more than EUR 4 billion was spent on unemployment and emergency aid, another 3.5 billion were estimated for 2022, with, of course, emergency aid in 2022 overtaking the amount of unemployment benefit in expenditure, which we all know is that, unfortunately, long-term unemployment has not yet fallen to the extent that we would have liked it to be. That is why it is also all the more important that measures such as the Coronajobsive with 170 million euros for training, for qualification, for vocational reorientation, that measures such as springboard with 250 million euros in 2022 and 50 million euros in 2023 for the support of long-term unemployed in the integration into the labour market are continued in the resumption of good jobs. Of course, what is also very important to us is that, for the first time in this budget, 20 million euros are also committed for work foundations in the environmental and transport sectors, working foundations in those areas that bring forward future jobs create the perspective. However, these jobs will also need to be done because there is some shortage of workers, some of them in this area. I am thinking of the investments planned in the next few years: 18 billion euros alone in the field of public transport, the ÖBB, investment in photovoltaics, investments in renewable energy, boiler exchange, building renovation. All these are measures that will trigger over the next few years, not to say decades, investments that we create jobs with. As pleased as the outlook for the labour market is, we will have to focus the instruments in labour market policy even more closely on the challenges of future working worlds, future companies and the necessary socio-ecological change in economic policy. The challenges are clear: This is the climate crisis, which is the digital transformation, but this is also the care emergency. We will still have to release funds in later years. Even if we have achieved a very good budget for 2022, we will see whether we should not continue to provide funds to a similar extent in 2023. The fight against long-term unemployment is certainly one of the biggest struggles that we must wage in the near future. This is a struggle for perspectives, it is a fight against poverty, against poverty threat, and it is above all a fight against hopelessness. – In this sense: thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e49449	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e49471	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Koza sees good prospects for the labour market. When I look at today's news, I don't see such gratifying prospects. That's where I read from Lockdowns in different federal states. I don't want to know where else Lockdowns come from. There will be some farms that won't survive the next lockdown. So that's not so pleasing. Many will probably have come to the conclusion in this pandemic that the government does not even look forward to a week in the fight against pandemics, because what is going to happen is not really a cow's skin. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] But one thing has to be left to the Minister of Labour: He has seen the Fiasco come and has made sure that all restrictions are removed in the short work. The government has been empowered to issue unlimited appropriations for short-time work to the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Finance by means of a regulation. The Minister of Labour has seen the pandemic fight landing in the Fiasco and that we are likely to target a cruel 2022. I think that says a lot about the way this federal government works, which is bad – and the taxpayer has to pay it. In general, short work has become a self-service shop for companies. In the beginning it was important, in 2020 the short work was super important and saved many jobs. But what we have seen in recent months, in August, September, October, was a job retention program for companies. We have helped BMW in Steyr, the Opel plant in Aspern, Vienna Airport to keep employees who would have been needed in other companies urgently. These companies have conveniently outsourced their supply chain problems, their own logistics problems to taxpayers, who are now funding them the employment programme. The corona short work was never thought of for that. Therefore, if there is to be short-time work again in 2022, the conditions should be so sharp that only short-time work money will flow there on the favourable conditions, where government measures that have restricted business will be compensated for, and not for anyone who has any operational problems, the possibility of going to the favourable corona short-term working conditions in short-time work. The reform of unemployment benefit has also been mentioned. I'm afraid a raisin pick will take place. So you will go here and say: Oh, in many other EU countries unemployment benefit is higher at the beginning of unemployment than in Austria. Let's do that now. And it will not be seen that unemployment benefit in many other countries in the EU is the first to fall below the Austrian level in the course of time, second, especially in all other EU countries, and that these people then come to social assistance after a certain period of time. This is also something that the Court of Auditors has been demanding for many years, because the co-existence between emergency aid and social assistance or minimum protection in the long-term unemployed leads to inefficiencies in the bureaucracy and makes the one who needs social benefits a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of social security because he has to go to two authorities in order to be socially secure. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] A real reform can't be a rosin pick. We cannot look the most beautiful from all the other EU countries, but we must look the best out of all EU countries. There is also a discussion on the merit of confidence in addition to unemployment. If a person has a working relationship and deserves little, he must pay social security for this minor merit afterwards and tax it. If he's unemployed, he won't have to. This means an obstacle to the later take-up of work, because it is more favourable in terms of unemployment. And black work next to unemployment is very difficult to control if a minor activity is allowed, because, of course, when the control comes, it always works in its minor hours and so does not catch the black work. This is why we are in favour of limiting this and allowing small employment in addition to unemployment only for a limited period of time. the blackwork can be brought to life. I'm still holding it: For black work, it always takes two, one employer and one employee, and both belong to the fingers knocked.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e49543	Next speaker: Mr Laurenz Pöttinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e49567	Madam President. Estimated Minister! I would like to start with a thank you: Thank you for taking over the responsibility to take over this difficult place in such a difficult time. You're doing a great job! It's incredible what you've been doing in recent months. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I too am under the impression of today's news. I too feel that the health situation is very difficult, and the necessary steps to take are more than difficult. Mrs Belakovich, if you are speaking here two or three times of responsibility, please go inside and think about your responsibility! [[Abg. Hear: That's right!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Yeah, we're talking about good numbers. Until about a week ago, I was totally motivated and positively voted. The figures were incredibly good: 50 000 more people in employment than before the crisis. [[Abg. Belakovich: Please! You really go through the world with your eyes closed!]] As the Economic Association has calculated, we have almost as many open jobs as job-seekers, if you calculate all platforms – and the action springboard works. Member of the Muchitsch! If you think about the 20 000 action, you know it didn't work. The action springboard, however, is sustainable. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Action 40 000 would be about double what did not work before. I think we can be satisfied with the number, with 34 000 people less in long-term unemployment than at the peak in April. [[Abg. Worm: Be content!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Well, be happy!]] The goal of returning to less than 95 000 by 2023 is ambitious, but it can be reached. . I believe that with your actions, Mr Minister, and the measures that are still being followed, we will also have a good future in the labour market. Now another appeal from me: Please go immune! I understand that many people in our country are thinking about a general vaccination obligation. I understand! Ask the population how it thinks at the moment! Nobody believed that these numbers would explode like this once again. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I think we have to think very carefully about what steps we are taking and what statements we are making – that is what I am specifically saying in the direction of FPÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e49672	Next speaker: Mr Rainer Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e49696	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Yes, the labour market has developed very positively over the last few months, but we have to say honestly, ladies and gentlemen, above all you, Federal Minister: There's nothing you can do for it. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It was the economy that did this. We have a high growth, we have full order books, people work day and night. [[Abg. Hörl: So you're coming like the Danninger!]] These are the factors that have led to this good circumstance. We don't know how this will develop in the next few days and weeks. It has already been mentioned that the situation with Corona is not simple and very serious. I ask you, Minister of State: What has actually become of the measures you have so strongly announced? One press conference is hunting the other. Corona Foundation: What happened to the Corona Labor Foundation? We didn't hear anything. Markus, colleague Koza, you've addressed the environmental foundation. Yeah, it's very, very important, but please don't just talk about it. Once reality has to be created. Start with it and don't wait forever, ladies and gentlemen, otherwise we really only have headlines and everything is sound and smoke – and you don't want to do that yourself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the Greens.]] Long-term unemployment has already been mentioned. Mr Pöttinger, you said that the 20 000 action has not been successful. There were ÖVP communities, ladies and gentlemen, who were grateful that there was this action, and which they also used. [[Abg. Hörl: That's a fool!]] Make Don't mediocre this action! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With the abolition of this action, you have actually taken the hope of older workers. [[Abg. Hörl: The union...!]] It was very dramatic what happened. The older generation was you at the time, and you are in fact still wreaked for it today, and you leave it to their fate. Mr. Federal Minister, I have read your APA issue with astonishment – before yesterday, I think. “The standard” has also reported a little bit about it today. They meant at the age part-time that the block variant was not in the sense of the inventor. They want to think about it. – Ladies and gentlemen, so far it has always been like this: If the Federal Minister begins to think, the workers have something bad to expect. Since the block variant has already become so massively worse, the question arises: Does that mean that you want to abolish the block variant completely, Mr. Federal Minister? If you do this in the shield, I can say from this point on: You will have to expect a very strong resistance from us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In conclusion: A few days, workers who have hacked for 45 years and were diligent have the chance to retire without any deductions. They have caused that to happen from 1.1. These reductions will be reintroduced next year. 5 000 euros per year Get the people out of here. We will not give up, ladies and gentlemen, to fight to ensure that the people who have worked for 45 years do not have to buy deposits. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at SPÖ.]] We will make proposals tomorrow, and we will see how, above all, the EIA will behave. – In this sense a warm thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e49795	As President Sobotka has already announced, I am going to interrupt the session briefly. I would ask the members of the Presidential Conference to meet briefly for a special presidial in the room behind me, and to interrupt until 12.10 a.m., for just over 10 minutes, the meeting. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e49839	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the interrupted sitting and apologise for the delay. The discussions at the Presidential Conference took a little longer. We are now continuing in the debate. Mrs Tanja Graf is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e49875	Madam President. Estimated Minister Kocher! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear viewer! I am allowed to continue with the topic of work and the UG 20 and I can insist that this is one of the few sub-divisions in which a reduction in expenditure is a very positive one. The work budget 2020 provides for around a third of less expenditure than in 2021 – but not because we want to invest less, but because, fortunately, we have brought many people into employment and, fortunately, there is also less short-time work. [[Abg. Worm: 2022!]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have raised the subject: How do we proceed with the short work? – Minister Kocher has mentioned this several times: If necessary, something will also be done in this area, and I am convinced that our Minister will act there. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] On the other hand, the revenue is: Because more people have just found a job, which is very pleasing, the income from unemployment insurance contributions will also be about 6 percent higher. The result is a budgeting of 7.7 billion euros, and I can really thank all the workers and all the employers, for they are the ones who generate these sums. – Thank you for that! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] My previous speakers have already mentioned some area in which we spend and invest money. I should like to stress two points in particular: One is the program springboard, the other the coronajobsive. In the job offensive, 100 000 people will benefit from helping them find a job. The Spring Board has already registered 12,000 people – this number has already been mentioned today – who are people who are long-term unemployed. This is a beautiful, high number, and we will bring these people into employment in the future. It is also very important that we set a priority for over 50 year olds who are long-term unemployed. In this area, 150 million euros will be invested, because our goal is to help all those people who can work to find a job. The AMS is therefore also equipped with more resources and more resources. Personally, the young people are also at my heart. We have also provided a very nice sum for the support of apprentices: 230 million euros will be well invested, because the apprentices of today are our professionals of tomorrow, and there it also needs support, The 2022 budget for the field of work covers the entire career career with different priorities. I can thank our Minister for his far-sightedness and for his sense of responsibility, because I am convinced and I am very confident that this budget will provide the basis for mastering tomorrow's labour market challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e49924	Next speaker: Mr Peter Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e49948	Madam President. Minister! High house! I cannot entirely agree with all these reports by the EIA and the Greens as regards the labour market, because there are currently about 350 000 people in unemployment or training, there are 50 000 in short work, emergency aid, minimum security and so on. In international comparison, or in Europe, I would like to mention it again, we have been in fact always on a stockerl square, either first or among the first three. In the meantime, we are in place 14, in Europe, that is, there is nothing in which I could recognize any famous leaf. The 2022 budget could now be discussed in detail, but it does not really make sense, even because of the current development, because the figures are really thrown. Even now – you feel it in the hall – there is unrest, there are some developments that will naturally affect the labour market quite massively. They will also be very massive in terms of entrepreneurs, and this is not a good thing that comes here, you can honestly say. Mr Kocher, we obviously do not come around the issue of Corona either, and I would ask you now to clarify a few basic things even off the lines of the figures. While you always say that would be the fault of Minister Mückstein, you could have nothing to do with it – but you are responsible for the labour market. I believe that as an ÖVP, one has also taken over this place because the Greens have not been able to make a point for the labour market. The idea of origin was to resolve this misunderstanding between the unemployed on the one hand and companies looking for skilled workers on the other. In reality, however, something has not really happened now, Mr Minister, except that something has gone away from me. We still have the problem that entrepreneurs are looking for skilled workers, and that, although there are so many unemployed people. That doesn't fit in. We will have to solve this problem as quickly as possible. Mr Minister, I also asked you on the 3G rule in committee: How can such a system be adopted for the workplace – it now applies to three or four weeks, I believe – and not to think about how it can work for entrepreneurs, but especially for workers in practice? At this point also my clear criticism towards union, social democracy and the Chamber of Labour: You've got all of them. Workers are left in the rain! They are still running around this weekend to get a test for Monday morning. These are all things that don't work in practice, and there's a lot of craftsmanship mistakes happening, Minister Kocher. You can't always shift responsibility for this, you're the Minister of Labour. You should have found a practical solution in the 3G scheme. The solution that is currently available does not help corona, nor does it help entrepreneurs. It does not, however, help workers, and everyone is left in the rain. That's a terrible story. The next issue is vaccination duty, Mr Minister, because there you are very silent. You have, I think, a general obligation to introduce vaccination, for all workers or at least for the care professions. I said it yesterday, I say it again: That's suicide on the run! There is already an emergency in the care sector, both in hospitals and nursing homes as well as in the 24-hour care, and everything you do now is counterproductive. For the training of the future descendants, this is not an incentive if you know how to deal with the people. There will be very, very many employees break away, thousands, even in the 24-hour care – they will no longer come! You leave old people dependent on this care in the rain. I beg you: Create a solution that is practical so that this emergency does not grow even greater! It's crazy what you're up to. I can only ask you: Please remain reasonable and find a solution that does not make the problem in the care even bigger than it is anyway! That would be my call, Mr Minister, and I ask you to speak once again a word of power, because this is a development that will affect us very, very massively. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What's still unclear: Should the vaccination be implemented by the ÖVP and the Greens – unfortunately God with the help of Social Democracy and the NEOS – it is also labour law questions, Mr Minister: How do you arrange this when someone is quit because he's not being vaccinated? What do the claims look like? Is this a discharge, is it a termination? How to be insured under labour law? All these questions, Mr Minister, have to be answered by someone here in plenary, because people outside are really worried. I don't hear anything, I don't see anything. It is likely that sometime on Sunday evening a decree will be issued, which will apply from Monday, which will be technically bad in detail and with which people will be left out in the rain. I can only call once again, especially the former workers and employees party SPÖ: Helps to find a settlement so that these tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people will not be left in the rain! The Chamber of Labour and the Trade Union must once defend themselves and ask what this means for the people: I don't know, rent worker, do they have to re-train from nurses, or how are they supposed to do this? This also applies to self-employed people in the health and care sector, who are no longer able to exercise their self-employed profession. These are all questions on the subject, Mr Minister – let us leave the figures away, because what happens next year we will see – and I would ask you to answer these technical questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e50030	Mr Martin Kocher has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e50052	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Indeed, the labour market situation has improved dramatically over the course of the year – fortunately, I say. I took office at the beginning of the year, where 535 000 people were unemployed in Austria or in training courses. At present, it is 344,000 people, almost 200 000 people, and it is also less than in mid-November 2019, with 361,000. In unemployment we have a record depth since 2012, we have a record level of employees and a record level of open jobs. Despite the intensification of the pandemic situation, I would like to stress that there are no negative developments in the labour market in terms of unemployment, nor any significant increase in short-term work. But we must not be too sure – that is, I think, decisive – that we must not be deceived. The recent years have shown that there is a strong link between the number of infections and the development of the labour market; because of the vaccination, it may be somewhat weakened, but how strong it will be, of course, also depends on how the situation develops. The Minister of Labour has limited competences in the fight against pandemics. With 3G in the workplace, which I think is an important measure, we create even safer working conditions. It was already the case that the probability of infecting at work was low, now it has become a lot smaller, and that is something, I think, that we are also guilty of employees in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Otherwise, the Minister of Labour can prepare for everything and constantly adapt all measures to the changing reality. We are definitely prepared for everything that can happen. The aim is to minimise and eliminate all damage to the labour market as much as possible. And the short work was and is the means of choice to prevent major damage to the labour market. Although the current situation determines political and media attention, it is natural to take into account and not forget the structural aspects of the labour market. The labour market budget 2022 does exactly the following: We have set priorities in areas where there is a need for these priorities. Some have already been mentioned. A problem area, a challenge continues to be long-term unemployment. Fortunately, we have seen a sharp decline in recent months, from 148 000 in April to 114 000 people who are now unemployed for a long time in October. However, we need a further decline, long-term unemployment is of course still too high, and therefore 500 million euros will be used in 2022 to combat long-term unemployment. 300 million euros flow to the Springboard programme, 165 million euros from the regular budget to combat long-term unemployment in people over 50 years of age and another 105 million euros from the regular budget to combat long-term unemployment among people under 50 years of age. The aim is to bring long-term unemployment very clearly below the 2019 level. The first figures show us that there is a very strong use of the programme, that there is also great interest in businesses that many companies want to give workers who were longer unemployed a chance. I am very happy about this, and I hope that we will continue to experience it in this way. A second priority is the field of qualification. We have spent more than 400 million euros this year in the framework of the Corona work programme for an instrument aimed at: (ii) to finance training measures. 60,000 people have benefited, about 30,000 have found a job within three months. This is not a matter of course for such a programme at this time. Next year, a further 214 million euros, including educational bonuses, will be available for the Coronajobsive, in order to reduce – by some already mentioned – this dismatch between labour supply and labour demand, in order to also train skilled workers who are particularly sought. A third priority, which is very important to me, is the support of young people in the labour market. We have planned 57 million euros for training up to the age of 18 years, we have a large budget, the largest for very, very long time for the promotion of apprenticeships. This is also a very important area in view of the shortage of skilled workers. Another very important area is the promotion of women on the labour market. We have the highest budget, which has ever been available for women's promotion, and have increased the funding target once again, also overall for all support programmes under the AMS. So far, the funding target has been 3.5 percentage points above the proportion of women's unemployment, now we have raised it to 4 percent, i.e. women will be supported positively, especially if they have lost their job. There are a number of very specific programmes, particularly in the craft sector and in the technical field. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the special performance of the AMS. Due to the short-term accounts, due to the completion of the Coronajobsive, due to the mediation barriers, due to the difficulties of organising training during the Corona period, the AMS was absolutely required in 2020 and 2021 and, with the great use of many employees, made sure that this difficult situation was handled. Fortunately, the labour market is well placed, it is about continuing to defend it. This is certainly also a merit of employees who have contributed to the rapid and rapid payment of short-term work aid – most of the aid that went to companies – as quickly as possible. That was particularly important in the way we were in, especially in the first wave of the pandemic, but also in the last winter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e50122	This is what Mr Andreas Minnich has to say. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e50146	Madam President. Estimated Minister of Labour! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear spectator at home! This year, because of the pandemic, the work budget was much higher than planned. That was also very good. On the labour market, we see how important this step was, and the consequences of the pandemic are particularly strong there. That makes it so challenging politically. As a regional entrepreneur in fashion trading, you can believe me: I know the challenges of recent months. A few months ago, our business was still empty, the lights turned off and all the employees at home. Today the situation looks different. Nearly every industry is looking for workers. We have not only a shortage of skilled workers, we have a shortage of employees. This high dynamic is immensely challenging, and I can tell you that this applies to all sides – to our employees and businesses, but also to politics. Active labour market policy is therefore particularly important because we are putting the problems at the root of the problem. It is possible to The action springboard – it works and works – with 250 million euros for 2022 as well as the Coronajobsive with a total of 700 million euros are two striking examples. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] From record unemployment to record employment – figures better than before Corona – and to a shortage of skilled workers in just a few months, this shows the enormous challenges in the field of work and business. With our Minister of Labour, Martin Kocher, we have an expert on the levers. This budget shows that he understands his craft. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] At this point, I would like to make an important point. They all appeal: In this dynamic phase in which we are located, it is absolutely helpful if workers and entrepreneurs are not played against each other. Our location Austria can only go strongly into the future if we all pull together on one strand. [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and to Mr Jakob Schwarz and Mr Zorba.]] One more thing: The most important thing is to help workers and businesses, and thus our whole country and people, if we can leave the pandemic behind. We have the solution: The vaccination works and works. – Please go immune! [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and to Mr Jakob Schwarz and Mr Zorba.]] Values FPÖ, your attitude splits our country. Let us help each other to get out of this difficult time together! We're all going to immunize together! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e50216	Next speaker: Mr Michael Seemayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e50240	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! It has already been mentioned a few times: The short work has not only been since the announcements of partial lockdowns or lockdowns in some federal states, which have been published in the last few hours in the media. Mr Graf has already mentioned it: If it is necessary, then something will be done in the field of short work. I think it's necessary. We are currently experiencing that due to the 2G rule as well as due to the currently increasing numbers in gastronomy and hotel industry, many cancellations and cancellations are taking place. We currently have two variants of short work: That variant, which Mr Loacker referred to, is also intended to help businesses that have difficulties in ensuring utilization and work due to supply problems. There is also the traditional, classical short work. These are two completely different variants. The conventional, classical corona short work, where more is supported or more resources are available, is limited until the end of the year. It needs a solution now, because it happens the following: The farms see if there is security over the course of the year. They need this security because they now have to decide whether to keep their staff. Otherwise, what we have experienced could happen again: that workers are notified for termination, because there is an advance period in connection with the early warning system. If there is no certainty that short work is beyond the turn of the year, the fears are that this could happen again and that the colleagues are already being notified for termination. You have to stop that. Another issue I would like to address is the fact that a lot of work is done in Austria outside of regular working conditions. That's what I'm talking I am not from undeclared work, but from the countless hours that are done voluntarily. Voluntary work has also become a very important pillar in our society. Not only the work in clubs has become indispensable, the care of caregivers would no longer work without the work of countless caring relatives. There needs to be improvements, there needs to be a security in the working life of these people, for example through a fixed job. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, improvements also need to be made for the countless volunteers who, as part of their commitment to the rescue service, to disaster operations or to the voluntary fire brigades, provide an indispensable service to society. Only a few days ago was given on the Rax Brand. In this forest fire too, countless voluntary helpers were in use. It is precisely for these people that we need a security to ensure that they can continue their commitment in the future. In 2019, improvements were made to our initiative to ensure that exemptions from service paid in consultation with the employer could be agreed. However, this sometimes proves to be very difficult, especially when bets begin in the middle of the night and last beyond the usual start of work. The legal claim is clearly missing. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[12:45]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e50365	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Rebecca Kirchbaumer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e50393	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! Yes, the measures have taken, especially in the pandemic period, the short work, and we have, despite all this, thanks to God, a high economy, the economy is running again. We can look back positively on the fact that unemployment in Austria has declined as well as ever before. Despite all this, companies are looking for persistent employees. We will also have to focus on bringing the long-term unemployed back into employment – I agree with colleagues Muchitsch of course. However, I cannot agree with the claim that the project springboard does not work, on the contrary: 19 percent of the long-term unemployed were returned to the labour market in 2021. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Musical.]] I think this is a success that can be seen. Our Federal Minister has launched a Pflock with this project. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The SPÖ has repeatedly launched the 20 000 action. I'm sure it didn't do anything. Long-term unemployed people have come into employment, but then they have become unemployed again. I don't think it can be the goal that these employees, these people, find no work anymore. I am especially proud that we focus on teaching. I personally have learned and completed two teaching occupations. You helped me a lot for my professional career. I have thus learned independence, determination and punctuality as well as the realization that one can work in the working world. This is dual training. I think that's unique all over the world. We now receive a funding of 230 million euros only for teaching. Thank you for that! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The teaching needs a better image. I think we must work together to ensure that the teaching professions get back to the importance they once had. We need to upgrade the image. Of course, it was so in my case that my parents had no pleasure in knowing that instead of doing the Matura, I decided to learn two teaching occupations. But today they say: That was the right way! Teaching doesn't mean you don't make a career. I owe my career to teaching. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e50453	Next speaker: Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e50477	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs Kirchbaumer, on the topic of long-term unemployment: The 20 000 action at that time was used by very many ÖVP communities. The then Minister of Social Affairs Hartinger-Klein stopped her without evaluation. That is why we cannot say today how much more successful it could have been. Many people have thus found employment again. Unfortunately, our new proposal, the 40 000 action, has not even been discussed by you. I think it was Mr Pöttinger who said in his speech today: No one knew how all this would develop! I want to break a lance for science. The scientists have very well calculated what will come, and I feel it is very late – but fortunately it has happened – that Salzburg and Upper Austria have now decided to take strict measures. Who knows what else we need. In this connection, Mr Federal Minister, a professional group – now coming to the subject of work and the budget – which is really close to burning out, these are all people who work in the health field: the doctors, the health and and nurses, as well as all other people working in the medical field who cancel daily. So we lose people. Those who are still there are at the limit or above. It is precisely here that a large announced care offensive has been discussed, and I do not feel very well or know how it can now be budgeted. We believe that it would be necessary not only to double the funds for the grant of skilled workers, but also to provide these funds for tertiary training. Perhaps you can give us more information on where the efforts of this re-training offensive are. Two groups are especially close to my heart: The exemption of unvaccinated pregnant women is now limited until the end of the year, but the many vaccinated pregnant women – and I think the time is so dramatic that we can no longer distinguish because there are many vaccination breakthroughs – must be involved. Mr Federal Minister, where does the regulation remain? It would also be necessary to extend this measure not only until 31 December, but also until next year. The second group – people who bring an attestation – belongs to a risk group: this is at all at 30. It ran out of June. You may have talked to the Minister for Social Affairs for a long time. Maybe you did, too. Mr Nussbaum asked the Minister for Health, but he did not know anything about it. You could agree together that you will also be giving this group an extension, which would also be very time-consuming. Maybe it's still going on. Perhaps we all do it together – so often conspired.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e50523	Mr Josef Muchichzzu spoke on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e50550	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs Kirchbaumer – she is not in the hall now – has claimed that the SPÖ is constantly discussing the 20 000 action in the current situation. I'm correcting: The SPÖ is discussing action 40 000, an action aimed at bringing people into employment, even in aid organisations, in health and care professions, under new criteria, with new additional beneficiaries. The second actual correction, Madam President: Mrs Kirchbaumer has claimed that 19 000 people could already be communicated this year over the Springboard action – 10,000? – 19 percent, thank you! ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[Call the ÖVP: Percentage!]] [[Call the ÖVP 19 percent!]] I'm correcting: There are, in fact, mediations which, as in previous years, are about the AMS mediation procedure. The AMS has brought almost 50,000 long-term unemployed back into jobs in the previous year alone – so do not put another headlight on it, since this is the mediating activity of the AMS at all times and so on!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e50605	Mrs Bettina Zopf, you are speaking now. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e50630	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! The labour market is recovering, our actions are taking place – thank you, Minister! Our motto is: Help for self-help. I wish for Austria fairness, justice and prosperity. It is only fair and fair if all those who are able to work and are willing to work make their social contribution and go to work – that means prosperity. In our budget, we are forcing the reintegration of people seeking work, with which we invest around 700 million euros, with 300 million euros in the Springboard project. As bad as the opposition is talking about our actions here in Parliament: The figures clearly speak another language. It is a pity that the opposition does not lose a good word about government work. I think that's a party-defined hacking order. In my opinion, constructive criticism looks different. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Over the last few months, the government has been concerned about bringing many people back to employment. At almost every meeting of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, as well as today, Mr Belakovich here in plenary, FPÖ and SPÖ are making a request for an increase in unemployment benefit – probably in order to win voters. This is unsavory and populist politics. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's exactly why, dear SPÖ and dear FPÖ, my proposal for your political motto fits, and I remind you again: Land of the mountains, land of fields, who works, has a pitch! – It cannot be for Austria and the working people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is neither fair nor just, nor does it bring prosperity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... the unemployed people... inconceivable...!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Now for short work: This is our joint project from the SPÖ-ÖVP government time. I refer to the short-time work as our joint child from our government point of view. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Even if we are no longer married now, we continue to take good care of it, which is our responsibility for Austria – always in dialogue with the social partners, because as a Christian-social trade unionist it is very important to me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Should it be necessary, 200 million euros in the short-term budget for next year will again be estimated. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now to reduce income tax: In 2021 we started with the lowest tax rate and lowered the taxes from 25 to 20 percent. In 2022, the two middle levels are now in the line – therefore, a reduction from 35 to 30 and from 42 to 40 percent. The high incomes are not relieved. It is no longer a burden for the entrepreneur because he no longer has to pay for the employee. Under the rule, the state receives less tax revenue on income. However, it strengthens the purchasing power of workers who already have more than 350 euros available each year. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that's what we call re-route profitability, because, I hope, most of the money will then also be spent in Austria – for example for holidays in Austria or for high-quality Austrian food from our farmers – and thus the state receives taxes again. This is living solidarity in Austria. To conclude: This budget is figures of labour-friendly and eco-social policies. We decide on this budget today, and I am proud of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e50721	Mr Peter Weidinger has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e50746	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters! Love See you! We are debating today a budget estimate which provides for a discharge of 18 billion euros for the people of our Republic. Today, we will take a decision that will provide even more support for work, so that people will have more money from the fact that they are going to work by reducing the income tax rate and also the wage tax. That's good, because that creates hope, it creates perspectives, and that creates an income for the outcome of life. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Federal Minister Martin Kocher is a guarantee that there will be evidence-based proposals and initiatives that will be decided here in this House to pursue an active labour market policy. I would point out that at the highest level of the pandemic, 1.3 million people were able to stay in employment through short-time work and found income, which was necessary and right to support people in order to get through this difficult phase. We are now also taking the next step: The Coronajob is a perspective that goes far into the future and prepares the workers for the jobs that we need today and which will become more: in the field of Green Tech, in the field of skilled workers, in the field of increased use of digitalization and in the case of the settlement of businesses in the ecological field that we create in Austria, because economic aid is in line with an active labour market policy. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to make an essential point, which the Federal Minister has also stressed in his contribution here: It is essential that the vaccination rate increases. This means that we are also reducing the numbers of the unemployed. That's why, ladies and gentlemen: Make use of it, put the third stitch and also convince your friends to put the first stitch at the tribal tables! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In this sense: for sustainability, for stability, for responsibility for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e50806	There are no more words available to me. The discussions on this subject have thus ended. [[13:02:17]] UG 34: Innovation and Technology (Research) UG 41: Mobility UG 43: Climate, Environment and Energy
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e50848	We now reach subdivisions 34: Innovation and Technology (Research), 41: Mobility, and 43: Climate, Environment and Energy. A joint debate is taking place on this matter. I now give Mag.a. Dr.in Petra Oberrauner the floor. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e50876	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate spectators at home! Fortunately, the budget in this area has been a little better taught, because there is now – and this is very commendable – the Fund for the Future of Austria, which is high-educated with 140 million euros for research. There are additional funds from the recovery fund and EU funds via Ipcei, and in this respect We are then very well placed for this time. At this point I would also like to thank the AWS, the FFG and also the SAL for all the others for the good handling of these promotions. [[Complementary of the Abg. Niss.]] But when it comes to research and innovation, we also need to look at what input and output is in this area, and I come to the economic output. We still have a deficit to implement the findings of research, including applied research, in business cases, in economics and economic measures, thus creating jobs and return on investment. In this respect, there is now a new funding project at the universities for basic research, called Sparkling, in which the researchers are shown and they are accompanied by how they can also make a business case from what they have researched, which then creates jobs. The corona vaccination is an important example of this, because Sars research is 30 years old, we have now needed a vaccination, and that has gone very quickly because we already knew what the results from these areas are. I would also like this for applied research, especially for SMEs which do not have the potential of industry. Order research then brings an input into these institutions again. What about the value added in Austria from these results? – Value added can only be created if, so to speak, what has been researched in the economy is rolled out. We have here an example of Johannes Kepler University, with Sepp Hochreiter and his team, who is a well-known researcher and has reinforced artificial intelligence in mechanical learning through tools that now use Siri and Amazon's Alexa. In 2014, Amazon representatives flew to California only to meet these researchers, shake his hand and organize a feast because they implemented 1 billion euros with these tools, but the researcher himself received only one hand pressure and got a Mojito donation. I would like the government to provide so much risk capital for applied research in the future that it is possible to do these things in Austria and also to sell them from Austria, and to think about the state's participation in future-rich companies, from which you can get out again, but through which we would have a return on investment. For the benefit of the people, I would also like to say: We should invest more rapidly in Mint subjects from kindergarten in time, take women's quotas seriously – 20 percent in research and development have still not reached – and at the end of the day, above all, there must be a digital sovereignty that we have not yet achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e50927	The next speaker is Hermann Weratschnig. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e50948	Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for the representation of the Federal Minister Leonore Geessler, who is a corona-related contact person and cannot participate today accordingly! The topic of mobility: Looking back into the past, we see that traffic has grown unabated since the 1990s in Austria. So far, the recipe has been: Traffic is life, and everything has to be subordinated to it. If there's room It is necessary to create space, to build, to promote. Ladies and gentlemen, we are working together on a trend change, on a turnaround towards mobility change for sustainable mobility, which can be controlled by everyone. Man has become sedentary, and today eleven people are sitting in ten cars – a capacity utilisation of 1.2. Mobility has therefore developed very strongly, very rapidly, and there is a disproportionate, exaggerating consumption without regeneration as far as mobility is concerned. This consumption threatens our planet, ultimately endangers social peace. This expression of behaviour, that of volunteering in hours of congestion, destroys opportunities, honourable Members, inhibits mobility and consumes resources without great value added. We want to show a mobility turnaround in the 2022 budget with very important and significant points. Above all, we want to point out freedoms, we want to set new standards for more time, for deceleration, but also for climate protection, and there is a principle of avoiding, shifting and improving the principle. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Jewel beater.]] Corona has shown us, I believe, and shows us how important home office is, and also what opportunities can give us home office. Perhaps in the future, even without Corona, there is a day a week – I know, not in all sectors that is possible, but it has great potential in many industries. Avoid traffic: Studies say 5 to 10 percent of the traffic routes. Time-sharing is very important. To make the changeover more attractive, of course, it also needs other hinges. The climate ticket is in the budget at all corners and ends and is on track. 130 000 sold climate tickets, ladies and gentlemen – this is a success story, so we want it. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Jeitler-Cincelli.]] Avoiding, of course, also means expanding bus and train, testing potentials, even if these are sideways. As an example of Lower Austria and Styria, I believe we should look more closely at what has happened in the past and what potential there is for the future when it comes to re-evaluating important railway routes, perhaps also re-locking some of the decommissioned tracks and offering mobility. Avoiding needs opportunities, needs supply, needs incentive and consciousness. The second is a very important area, namely the publishing sector. This is in the budget with the promotion of private railways, connection railways, terminals, rail toll promotion, all about cost-truth. Cost truth is at all the key to the issue of mobility. Cost-truth also promotes rural areas, promotes our regional economic cycles. Publishers, of course, also means climate ticket. The last point: Improve. Improvement is, I think, very strongly reflected in the issue of decarbonisation, changeover to electromobility. Where electro is not possible, there is the development and research in other alternative areas. The future of the road is definitely electric. Technology openness, yes, means to us, where it is efficient to use the right technology where it is sustainable. That's quite different. This will be different in air transport than in shipping, but we know that electric mobility in road transport will be very strong. In the budget, we have an approach of 167 million euros, of which 50 percent for buses and commercial vehicles. This is a very important area. Summary: Avoid, shift and improve – this budget stands for it, it implements points of the Government Convention. Very important: The trend change for climate protection is and remains the mobility turnaround. Let's work on it together! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e51027	Next speaker is Dipl.-Ing. Gerhard Deimek. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e51051	Mr President. Mr State Secretary, you are once again the address of my speech, but you will certainly be sending this to the Federal Minister. In principle, it is all about the entire federal government, because the Federal Government – and in concrete terms the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs – has promised not to lose sight of the goal of making Austria a leading innovation nation. Don't lose sight of it is good. Unfortunately, the problem is that we are not going to open up to the innovation leaders, to the fronts in this area, but to the innovation followers we are still falling back further. This is not only a question of money, it is also a question of the use of resources. That's where we have our problems. Austria is now in a tense situation. There is a major health problem with all the impact on the economy, education, science and so on. What's going on? What could one expect from a research nation? – That she doesn’t continue in trial-and-error mode, but that you’re together with the scientists and, for example, is doing accompanying research to know what really helps and what doesn’t help. This is precisely why I tabled the following motion for a resolution today, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] That this is not a speech, but that it is concrete and fact-based, we have often brought – and with “we” the research spokespersons of the opposition parties – closer to the government parties. Apparently, however, advertising and PR measures are still more important than anything else, and Austria continues to suffer. Next chapter in the field of research and technology: space. The Austrian space industry is already really involved in some ESA projects. In the future, this sector will become increasingly commercialized and therefore develop new business models and, of course, generate new revenues and larger sales. This is described in the space strategy. But what we still need and where it happens is start-up funding, not a permanent financing for green image projects, but a start-up funding, so that companies can work on the subject. - Let's not do it! Mr State Secretary, please return to the following address: I really call on you to ensure the financing of the New Space area, which is important for the Austrian economy, within the framework of the ESA election programmes, of the Boost! programme, that funds amount to EUR 15 million. The Austrian space economy needs that! We are successful, but we also want to stay successful! Since we are already so half in traffic, Traffic: Yesterday, various subdivisions made it possible to hear statements about the success of the climate ticket. – Well, is a success, is also a success of the allies participating in it. It was heard yesterday by Mr Neßler that she hoped that as many families as possible would go to the Austrian tourist resorts on weekends or holidays and use the climate ticket for this purpose. Theoretically, you can always hope for that. How does it look in practice? – The Austrian card for the families, the Austrian card family, cost 3 200 euros for the first class and about 2 100 euros for the second class. Every child used to have a ticket, now they have to buy individual tickets. You're limited. The family climate ticket for the first class costs 5 400 euros per year and that for the second class is a lot more expensive than the Austrian card. So get more expensive and want to sell it as a success for the families, that's not possible! Several thousand euros won't just bubble out a family like that. This has only been an image project and unfortunately not anymore. We remain on the transport issue, as a result of all the green transport policy: NoVA and fuel charges. It is always said that all of this is disbanded socially and, moreover, you have the climate ticket anyway. What about the counterparts who cannot use public transport, who are already using the so-called large amount of disposal? – We leave them in the rain, it is quite clear anyway! These are those who do not live on a bus route that does not live near a tram. These are those who, unfortunately, do not live on the subway or on the train. They are punished twice by having to buy more expensive vehicles and by having to pay even more expensive fuel. This is obviously the commuting and family policy of the current Federal Government. I do not want to speculate which party is behind it, but this is unbearable for the Austrians. We are already in the middle of the environmental breakdown. I start with a quote from the “Frankfurter Allgemeine”: “Saudi Arabia announces more than a billion dollars” of investment in initiatives for clean fuel technologies. - Perfect. Kronprinz Mohammed bin Salman announced this shortly before the Glasgow conference. What are the Saudis doing? – To generate a number of high amounts, they will invest in photovoltaics and other energy sources to generate e-fuels. The Saudi Aramco has long announced this. They said in the direction of Europe: The European countries will hopefully not be so naive to believe that the oil-promoting countries will be able to take this business out of hand! To this end, there are e-fuels, they are going to explore them, they will produce them in large quantities and export them to Europe – with us: import them. That's it. And what does Europe do? What exactly does Austria do? – The Federal Minister is the leader in prohibiting the combustion engine by 2030 or perhaps even earlier. Now I'm wondering, Why should a CO2-neutral combustion engine be banned with e-fuels? Why? The Minister does not know this, and all other climate fetishists do not know that either. Technology neutrality promotes the competition of research in all areas. I therefore end my speech with the words of Prof. Cocca of the JKU in Linz: ‘Climate policy is geopolitical.’ Without the USA, China and the oil exporting countries, there will be no solution. ‘This path will by no means be facilitated by attempts to act as a [...] model student, or by any ‘verbal randal’. Let's be honest with the Fridays-for-Future children: It will be about finding realistic and feasible goals, which will be much less ambitious than radical planetary rescuers. But rather a shared climate-realism than an unimplemented eco-romantics.” – This is environmental protection with home understanding, as Collaborative smoke usually protegrates him from here. Mrs Bundesminister, Secretary of State, will return to the path of common realism with your policy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[13:20]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e51182	Our colleague, John, is now speaking. Please, honourable Member. Mr Deimek, you did not make the request. I assume that the next speaker will make the request. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e51215	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I am sorry to have to correct you, Mr President: The next speaker will not make the request, but perhaps the next speaker of the group. [[general hustle and bustle]] [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I am very pleased, however, when a representative of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party here presents a plea for innovation, research and science, because this nourishes the hope that not all the theses of the Herbert-Kickl-Pferdeakademie are lost. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Environment, transport and energy are, I believe, very well removed in the large climate, so that we have combined these cross-sectionalities. The major objective of reducing CO2, in order to reduce climate warming, is to join us in all areas of society. Today we have an economic system that is strongly built on working with fossil energy sources. Europe's prosperity has also been built on these fossil energy sources for decades. The future and the present show us, however, that we need to reform this system. But that requires a lot of all of us. With Fit for 55, the European Union has set a target. We also have a very ambitious goal, namely to be completely climate-neutral at 2040 in Austria. But we must achieve these goals in order to become, as it was mentioned earlier, “radial planetary rescuers. ” I think we should all have that as an ambition, because we only have this one planet. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Shetty.]] But that means that we have to move a great deal of people's economy and society. Today climate policy is local policy, is social policy, is security policy. As far as security policy is concerned, we are currently seeing this very strongly. We have an energy crisis, a price which is due to the fact that certain countries want to justify political ambitions in Europe with the raw material of energy. We have to keep in mind: If Putin turns out to be in Russia, it will be dark in Europe, and this is also a political dependence that we must face with climate policy. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The Federal Government is doing this with the eco-social tax reform. We look at social compensation, for example with the climate bonus. We are trying to reassess the issues of mobility and transport. The space heat is a huge theme. The exchange of boilers in the domestic environment is again higher, so that there is also the possibility to participate. Above all, mobility raises the question: How can we keep technology openness? We have an extensive package in the Renewable Development Act. We need, please, to get the regulations in place. That is, I think, the mission for the Ministry, and I am grateful that there is competent support with the State Secretary at the Ministry. The field of energy and the environment is so extensive that the full scope of the government groups is being worked on so that we can take these steps quite soon, so that the turn in our country, in Europe, the entire planet succeeds.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e51291	Before reporting to Mr Bernhard, I should like to inform Mr Deimek that the legal conditions for bringing in an application has been made to the effect that this application has been properly filed and is also under negotiation. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e51320	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! The environmental budget in the UG 43 – and I might want to surprise you now – has light and shadow. It is indeed true that looking at the development of the environmental budget in recent years shows that it has developed in the right direction in many sub-budgets over the last two years. I would also like to highlight positively that, when it comes to thermal renovation, we are dealing with the out-of-the-oil-bonus, with energy-autarchic farms and many other concrete measures that, so to speak, are going into a climate-neutral future, we are very likely to see efforts in the area and at least one government group – which government group, everyone can now think about. [[Call the ÖVP:But hello!]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[State Secretary Brunner: With us it is clear, yes!]] [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] [[Call the Greens.]] But there are also shadows, and that is why we cannot agree to the budget. I would also like to justify this in terms of content. As the colleagues are aware, we have presented our own model for the ecologicalisation of the Austrian tax landscape. There's a fine fight about that. However, we believe that a principle of principle has not been complied with by the government, namely that in principle we choose the way for us to take less taxes, less taxes and not as government, as politics to return people by means of bonus. It's got something to do with us. [[Call the Greens.]] Our central concern is to get rid of taxation at work in general and to tax resources to work on pollution. That's the central element. For this reason, the climate bonus distorts the environmental budget massively, because it suggests that the budget increases by a large amount. In reality, however, it is only a redistribution of taxes that have previously been bullied by people. It is indeed the same – a second point, and that is very important – that there are various elements that have simply been missed in this ecologisation of the tax system. We can now discuss whether the CO2 price is too high or too low, and I think that the speaker will certainly find good words. As NEOS, we believe that it is significantly too low. But essentially, we say: It's been missed a chance. In 2018, we presented a tax model in which we said that if we really increase the CO2 price gradually to 350 euros and, at the same time, abolish other environmental taxes and taxes, we have a steering effect. If you look at today's price – fossil energy has simply become more expensive – then you can see that the price we proposed at that time is real today, but only the fiscal measures that we had on the other hand, namely the reduction in VAT, the reduction in labour income, i.e. income tax, the additional wage costs, have not happened. That means: If we were to be listened to and given meaning to the saying, then today people would simply have more money in the stock exchange. I would also like to make a very specific request to the CO2 price: [[Quoted print version removed]] Very important – if now from the green side comes the argument, what NEOS demand almost everything else –: Here is a request for what climate research calls for, and not for what NEOS demand. As a result, I would like to ask for the appropriate support. In this context, I should also like to make a second request: Motion for a resolution by Mr Michael Bernhard, colleagues on the abolition of diesel privilege The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Government is invited to abolish the tax advantage of diesel over petrol in the course of the present tax reform.’ This too is a very important point that has been lost in the negotiations between EIA and Greens. There are tools that could significantly reduce our emissions within a very short time, so that we can go back to climate neutrality in 2040. These tools were not used enough last year, and that is not only the NEOS, but that says a much wider alliance. Today you have a great opportunity to go in correction, to abolish diesel privilege and to increase the CO2 price. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[13:29]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e51503	Both applications have been properly submitted and are therefore also under negotiation. Mr Lukas Hammer has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e51531	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, traffic is our absolute child of concern in climate policy. Since 1990, CO2 emissions have increased by 75 percent instead of falling. That is, we have had a completely wrong development here in recent years. What, then, is our approach? The approach is that we – and I believe that we all agree – have to create durable alternatives to the car. What does that mean? – expand the public, make public cheaper and promote foot and bike traffic. That's exactly what we're doing: We have record budgets for public transport, we have the climate ticket with which we make public transport cheaper, we have a record budget for the expansion of foot and bike routes. We create quiet, comfortable and environmentally friendly alternatives to the car. If cars are already on the streets when cars are purchased, then as far as possible CO2-armed or CO2-free cars. How do we do that? – Mr Weratschnig has already mentioned it: On the one hand, there is a very large budget for the purchase of electric cars and on the other hand the socio-ecological tax reform, and it has not only begun now, but it has already begun to ecologize the NOVA last year. What did we do? – We have, as it were, introduced a CO2 differentiation, that there is already a very great incentive when buying CO2-saving cars, and the biggest instincts are getting really expensive. For an Audi Q7 – this is one of the cars with the highest CO2 emissions – you will have to pay 40 000 Euro NoVA in 2024. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] . I know that only my group will have applause. On the other hand, and this is what we're doing this year, we're introducing a CO2 prize that's getting higher and higher over time, and I'm very proud that we've done this. After all, ÖVP, SPÖ and, of course, FPÖ have said before the last election that they are against a national introduction of a CO2 price. We still agreed. I think we have found a socially very acceptable way. The NEOS are the only group that has always said: Yes, we want to introduce a CO2 price! You have also criticised us relatively strongly that the CO2 price we are introducing now has little steering effect and that the CO2 price is too low. I give quite open to: I would, of course, have preferred a higher CO2 price with a greater steering effect. [[Call: still higher]] You always like to point to your model of an energy policy tax package – as you have done now, colleague Bernhard. Let's take a look at this! You already mentioned it: According to your presentation, the CO2 price should rise to 350 euros per tonne. He climbs slowly, but let's assume that 2024 he'd already be at 350 euros. In return, however, you want to abolish almost all environmental taxes and environmental taxes: the NoVA, the motor insurance tax and the MÖst. - Good. If we look at that, if we then compare the real CO2 prices and convert it to the diesel price, then with your model the diesel price 2024 would be 38 cents per litre higher – i.e. more incentive, more steering than with our measures. The problem with the whole story is: Your higher CO2 price would never feel a car driver because he saves so much money when he buys it because of the loss of the NOVA and then later because of the loss of the motor insurance tax; he has, even if he drives the car three times to scrap, at the end still more money because he has saved himself so much when he buys it. I looked at a specific example because I wanted to know it more precisely. You can also calculate that, I like to give you the numbers afterwards. For a VW Tiguan, one of the most bought cars in Austria, you pay 3 322 euros in 2024, and then you have to pay just over 1 000 euros each year. It has a consumption of 6 litres per 100 kilometres, i.e. you pay 2.3 euros per 100 kilometres for your model. Due to the absence of the NoVA, you save yourself so much in your model that you can drive the Tiguan 145,000 kilometers. These are 11 years at an average driving capacity. That means you drive 11 years for nothing. In these eleven years, however, motor-related insurance tax amounts to EUR 11 500. If you calculate this, you can reach 652,000 kilometers that you can drive with your model without the price having any steering effect. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You create a massive incentive with your model – we can also discuss it – to buy the biggest instincts of all, because it doesn't matter how high the CO2 price is. [[Abg. Bernhard: Please go, Luke!]] The absurdity is because we have reformed the NoVA and when buying the biggest instincts of all, we will have to pay a very high NOVA, which is not according to your model: Your system produces an incentive to buy as large, CO2-emitting cars as possible. You suggest you have a climate-political tax model, but you actually give people a life-long fuel card. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is what we keep forgetting in the discussion when we talk about the CO2 price. A CO2 price is important, even in the area of mobility, because it has a steering effect – yes, I admit, I would also like more steering effect – but it is not everything. We have chosen another way, we say: Yes, this steering effect must already be given when buying, that is also with the NoVA. We have ecologistized the NOVA, we have introduced a CO2 price, which is also included in this budget. Everything else may help to maximize the profit of car companies, but certainly not the climate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e51597	Mr Alois Stöger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e51619	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Now I almost have to turn my speech around. Lukas Hammer has explained this so complicated that no one ever understood it, but in reality it is quite easy. [[Call to the ÖVP:It wasn't that difficult either!]] [[Abg. Luke Hammer: You have never understood! That's the problem!]] This situation cannot be changed by fiscal policy, but it can be changed with an offer, and I am actually not so far away from the Greens. If you manage to have appropriate public transport available to the country, then people will voluntarily change because it is much more pleasant to drive by public transport than to drive around with the car scratches. Secondly, If people don't have a chance, you can't change this with such a neoliberal policy, but you have to do something to allow people to change to public transport. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What could you have done? – For example, in the budget you could have ensured that you can buy suitable vehicles at Postbus, with which you can make a more attractive offer, from me from electric vehicles, from me also vehicles with hydrogen drive. That would be useful, and that is my criticism of this budget in connection with Postbus. There's something you could've done. [[Abg. Weratschnig: That's all in the budget!]] However, I would like to say that the overall chapter on transport, mobility is still the best thing that this Federal Government has done. I say it again: Congratulations and respect for it! You have thus set a signal for the expansion of the rail, and we want to do so. We want to have more traffic on the rail – not only as regards passenger transport, it is also important to have more freight on the rail. That's why I keep saying: It must be ensured when a product is transported 500 kilometres that this happens on the rail. We criticise this budget for financing the climate ticket by reducing the expansion of the railway; we are afraid that this danger exists. However, I think it is right that the climate ticket has been introduced. There is no way by, dear Greens, dear Austrians, we must massively expand public transport, massively also in the regions, and then people will voluntarily change. For this, you have a partner in social democracy, because it is important for us as a whole. The changeover to the rails and the appropriate assessment are crucial, we see this in this budget, we think it is positive, and therefore we can quite agree with this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e51690	Mr Andreas Ottenschlager has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e51714	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Mr Deimek von der FPÖ has just presented a request here. This was when I understood it correctly, about the subject of a scientific follow-up to the Corona crisis. I think that research and science in this area have proved the way out of this crisis, namely vaccination. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Let's go. Let's go.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we are already on the subject of technology, research, science, we should also say at this point: We also advocate, on climate issues, open access to technology, also for a certain amount of confidence in research and development – keyword: the further development of climate-friendly drive technologies – I believe, without this development, we will not create the management of the climate crisis. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] However, what we can do now and what this budget clearly represents is to set the following priorities that will contribute to this: We invest a lot of money in the development of rail passenger transport, also in infrastructure – the ÖBB Framework Plan provides for more than 17 billion euros for the coming years, which are record investments in the expansion of this area. As Mr Stöger has already said, it is also important that we massively expand rail freight transport, and this is also reflected in very high amounts in the budget. In addition, we invest in the interconnectors, in the urban regional railways, in order to establish the connection beyond the city's borders for the future. The climate ticket – it has already been mentioned – is certainly a very positive contribution not only to climate protection, but also to Austrian transport policy as it will, of course, strongly support the changeover to public transport. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is also a great concern for us to continue to promote active mobility – with funds of EUR 68 million per year for foot and bicycle transport – and, also mentioned at this point, we also want to create a pedestrian-friendly and bicycle-friendly package, better framework conditions for pedestrians and cyclists in the road transport system. We are already in very good discussions, and I am confident that we can improve the framework conditions together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e51764	Mr Peter Schmiedlechner came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e51788	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear Seers! To respond briefly to the previous speaker's words: How the vaccination works, we notice that right now. The numbers shoot up, and that, although the unvaccinated people have been locked in. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Ottenschlager: So this is really embarrassing!]] [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz:... your worms, right? People are now in the hospital with poisonings!]] So something doesn't fit into your logic at all. [[Abg. Ottenschlager: You only do uncertainty in this area!]] Perhaps you should consider other measures. [[Abg. Ottenschlager: Why do you then have to have yourselves vaccinated?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Now to the environmental budget: We are all sure that environmental protection is important. But what we see in this budget is: Taxation will be increased, and people will continue to be burdened. People are faced with rising costs – where you look, it becomes more expensive: Electricity, gas, fuel. Diesel has become almost 50 cents more expensive in recent months. – These are things that people are interested in because they are burdening people. Now you will also introduce the CO2 tax, which will create a further burden, and that in the worst and most difficult crisis – but that fits you! This fits the black-green comrades like the fist on the eye. Especially in the country where the public connections are not comprehensively extended, people depend on the car to drive into work to drive our children to kindergarten to buy the most necessary to drive to the doctor and to get medications when necessary, and, yes, to visit friends. Of course, that's the green townman. [[Abg. Kühberger: No, I'm not from the city! ...!]] This budget brings loads to families, and – there the ÖVP is back in the drawing – this budget brings loads to families in the countryside. As a farmer, I don't really come by on the subject of agriculture: Environmental protection only works together with agriculture. Small-structured agriculture contributes decisively to environmental protection and biodiversity – and you are destroying it. I have repeatedly pointed out the importance of agriculture for CO2 reduction. Only agriculture manages to store CO2. Mr State Secretary, your colleague Mrs Köstinger is in the process of dying of small-structured agriculture in Austria. I'm sure you know. Sure you also know that only agriculture manages to bind CO2. They allow small-structured agriculture to disappear gradually. The production of oxygen, the binding of CO2 occurs in soil or plants and also in the managed forest. Our farmers are responsible for this. Only they can reduce the CO2. At the same time, the farmers maintain our landscape. If many farms close and no longer take on this important task, industrial agriculture in Austria will be returning. Soil erosion, walls, avalanches, the disappearance of animal and plant diversity are the result. Our small-structured agriculture favours small-structured habitats and thus biodiversity. Finally, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[13:47]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e51967	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. The word now comes from Ing. Martin Litschauer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e51994	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! Dear Seers and Seers! The same as the previous speaker: Maybe I'm a rare person, but I'm a green man coming from the forest district, from the country and not from the city, and we can show you how. A few years ago, I even helped to make farms energy self-sufficient – so don't think we don't know how this goes! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As a Waldviertler I am very much on the way with the Franz-Josefs train, and I have found that many of those who travel from the Waldviertler district, for example to Vienna, are already using the climate ticket, and I am glad that this is so good. This also has a certain reason: For example, if you drive from Gmünd to Vienna and you have now bought the climate ticket, you can save 1,528 euros compared to the annual map. This is a very, very remarkable saving that our counterparts can achieve with this climate ticket, and I believe that this is also a good incentive for us to give the counterparts the opportunity to switch to the public. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This shows that the air-conditioning ticket works, and of course we follow: The ÖBB Framework Plan was increased by 700 million euros. We are expanding there, investing in infrastructure, modernising and accelerating the railway – and that is exactly what we need so that more people can change to the train and use it. I am pleased to note that 12 million euros have been added to the timetable. We also notice this in the Waldviertel: We have been able to extend the last train from Schwarzenau to Gmünd, and we get for the first time a spätzug that will drive to the Waldviertel on the weekend – at 10:28 p.m. you can still drive to the Waldviertel in the future. This offer is also supplemented, and so we are gradually implementing better and better offers. That is why Mr Stöger also said: Public transport will also do a lot for the country. It is of course true that we still have to do a lot in the field of freight transport, but that is also the budget. Rail freight transport has been increased by 21.7 million euros to 161 million euros and connecting rail transport has also been increased by 2 million euros to 9 million euros. So the federal government wants to help relocate freight traffic from the road to the rail, and this is very important for us in the forest district. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We are currently fighting with the transport of wood: The trucks are going through our narrow towns, and that's a really big problem. We want, of course, to provide help so that these transports can get away from the road and remain so cost-effective that the sawmills can continue to process the wood in the future, because that will ensure the jobs at the end of the day. We also have problems to work on. The district capitals of Waidhofen and Zwettl are currently cut off from the train, there are no more stations that could be reached. There used to be sideways. Many years ago, for example, the state of Lower Austria with the Növog took over a number of secondary railways, many of which are currently not in operation. But this will need to be done, because we will also need direct links between the capitals of the district and the railways; I am thinking, for example, of the Donauerbahn, which is a very important link between Lower Austria and Upper Austria. I invite the representatives of the federal states to think together about how we can reactivate these secondary stations and the railway bodies that are already in place, and thus drive the development of the public sector. We take advantage of the infrastructure of the railway as a backbone on which we build the rest of the public service offer! There is a lot to do in the area of transport, and we all need to do that: all transport associations, all municipalities, all federal states. That is why I would like to say once again: Let us help to achieve this in the future – for passenger transport and also for freight transport – so that we can relieve the roads and in the final effect also the climate and do something good for our environment! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e52060	I call Mr Yannick Shetty. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e52082	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear spectators! My colleague Michael Bernhard has already explained that we believe that in the UG 43, that is, in the climate part of this sub-division, there are quite a few praiseworthy points, but that will not be enough – and I believe many Green MEPs will see that – to achieve the climate targets that have been broken down in Austria. Funding is good, rail development is good, but we will not be able to promote this climate crisis. It will require ambitious structural reforms in mobility, in the tax system, but above all also in the support system, with a clear, liberal order policy, but always with market-economy instruments. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The special tragedy in promoting is not that we promote the good too little – in the thermal renovation every cent makes more natural sense – but that we still spend billions on environmentally harmful fossil promotions. This is nothing but fossil socialism – say, we spend billions of tax money to damage the environment and climate, and on the other hand, we have to listen to the government’s self-carriage that we take millions of tax money. That's completely absurd! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sir.]] It is precisely the organized CO2 taxation – an additional tax without any steering effect, i.e. the worst of both worlds – that is to say, it is puffed compared to the fossil promotions. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I would like to show you here again. [[Keeping a table with a column diagram in height]] According to estimates by the Economic Research Institute, we spend 4.7 billion euros a year on fossil funding and next year we will take 0.5 billion euros by a new tax, which has no steering effect at all. – That wasn't the deal, greens! These figures on fossil funding, i.e. environmentally harmful subsidies, are based on estimates by economic research institutes. There is still no official study, although this has been promised by the Minister for Foreign Affairs for so long. A recent answer to a parliamentary question by Mrs Julia Herr has shown that this study has not even been commissioned. We do not want to continue to accept this, so I put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] What is still tragic in this budget is how greedy we are once again in international climate aid. I believe that Mr Hammer and Mr Hammer, who were also at the Climate Change Conference, can confirm how pitiful this is in international comparison, especially in European comparison. It is good that we were able to make an increase in the Green Climate Fund for the next year, but this is still modest in international comparison. When it comes to helping the poorest countries adapt to climate change – dear ÖVP, that is this help on the spot you are always talking about – we are extremely greedy. I have a comparison here for you, which shows which countries have paid how much in the UN Adjustment Fund over the last ten years. [[The speaker holds a panel with the title “Climate – Help on the ground – UN-Adaptive Fund” and a column diagram.]] You can see Austria in comparison to Switzerland, Finland and the capital region of Brussels. The capital region of Brussels has paid more than 5 million euros over the last ten years, Austria a nearly million euros. The aim of this UN adaptation fund is to prevent climate migration by means of local help. – That alone should motivate you to ensure that the Republic of Austria finally makes a worthy contribution to economic strength. That is why I am tabling a second motion for a resolution: Resolution of Deputies Mag. Yannick Shetty, colleagues on ‘Increasing low national contribution to the UNFCCC adaptation fund’ The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Climate Change, Environment, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology, is invited to budget 2022 to provide a support payment to the UNFCCC Adjustment Fund, which is clearly beyond the payment made once in 2013.’ Greta Thunberg said in Glasgow: less Blablabla, more action now! – That was addressed to you too. I just want to leave it that way. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[13:57]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e52294	Both motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are therefore under negotiation. Eva-Maria Himmelbauer is now speaking. Please, Madame Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e52318	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Rising, stability and sustainability are the objectives and guidelines of this budget. This is achieved by looking forward and investing in the future. All three chapters that we are now discussing are topics of the future. In my speech, however, I would like to limit myself to innovation and technology. In the field of innovation and technology, we have already recorded an increase in budget appropriations by EUR 100 million last year, which was mainly used for economic recovery. This increase will be continued in 2022, with a further 20 million euros being spent – that is, a total of 582 million euros, with which important projects will be financed. In particular, Ipcei projects in the fields of hydrogen and microelectronics are supported with this additional EUR 20 million. But most importantly, what matters to me is: We thus support applied research in institutions and companies. SMEs in particular benefit disproportionately. The backbone of our domestic economy benefits from this budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] SMEs have done incredible things in recent months, and it is in our interest that they continue to succeed. 12.14 billion euros were spent on research and experimental development in 2020, with local companies accounting for 41.4 percent. As confirmed by the latest research and technology report, 28 percent of Austrian economic growth is due to the impact of the innovation system. The Ministry of Climate Change is mainly supported by various programmes, such as the FFG or the AWS. Of course, the mobility transition, the energy transition and the circular economy have taken on a special role, and I am also convinced that together with our innovative companies, with our non-university and university institutions, we will also be mastering these major challenges ahead of us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e52361	Mrs Julia Elisabeth has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e52385	Mr President. Dear High House! Climate protection and social justice go hand in hand for us and are two sides of a medal, because ultimately we both need it. And with this glasses of social justice, we also consider the so-called eco-social tax reform, which is the largest chunks in the climate protection budget and new. Let's just start with the word part eco: How many CO2 emissions do we save on this tax reform? – Some experts, experts say: 1 percent, some are more positive and say: 2 per cent – just to put the whole thing into a context where we are actually real with the numbers when it is always spoken of “historically”. The second point is social, and I would like to say the following: The CO2 tax is supposed to make the climate-damaging behaviour a little more expensive to move people to change, and to compensate for this cost, there is a climate bonus. – We think that’s also good, but our proposal was that the climate bonus for everyone is equal and depends on the social need for those who really need it, of course, higher, i.e. through additional funds for people suffering from energy poverty who sit in the unheated apartments in winter because they lack the money for heating. That was our proposal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] But what did you do? – You said: No, the climate bonus depends on the postal code! – The social security of this model has once been shown. This is very adventurous! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] However, I would like to add another point: What does this reform bring? How does the steering effect look? I've already explained it's supposed to be, to move people to change. But what if you can't even change when it comes, for example, to tenants and tenants? They have no choice at all. They will now pay for heating, for example, with gas or oil, but have no chance of changing it, because the type of heat is the landlord, the landlord. The owner decides which heating is installed, and there you also have to put on if you want there to be a steering effect if you want something to change. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weratschig.]] But you don't. You simply ask the tenants who can't change anything to the cash desk. That is not social, nor is it eko, Mr State Secretary, because there is no steering effect either. That's not in our sense. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] Finally, I am now coming to the climate conference I was in and about which one really has to say, there has been far too little progress – that is clearly to be said. A huge injustice is also that those countries that contribute to the climate crisis most often are hit hardest: They feel the heat, which see that drinking water is getting tighter and tighter, they feel the rise of the sea level and are hit the hardest. This leads to distribution struggles, which also leads to violence, which also leads to people having to flee. We don't care about that, too. [[We welcome the SPÖ and the Brandtätter and Shetty Members.]] This is particularly true when we look at the fact that, historically, Europe and the United States have so far caused more than 50 percent of the total CO2 emissions, and therefore - – – – – [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] I don't know why you're yelling in there. Yes, we find social justice does not stop at national borders, which must apply globally, and that is why I also make a request. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] At the Paris climate conference, we promised the countries most hard hit by it that 100 billion euros would be spent on aid. They're still waiting, they're waiting until today, and that can't be. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] Germany spends about 20 times as much in this area as Austria. Let's finally do what's necessary! That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's in the sense of all of us. The climate crisis knows no national borders, and in this sense I hope you will agree. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ as well as by Mr Bernhard and Mr Shetty.]] [[14:05]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e52597	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Süleyman Zorba. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e52625	Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! The budget of the UG 34 can certainly be referred to as a transformation budget, which is essential especially in terms of combating the climate crisis. I am therefore pleased that up to EUR 581 million is available for this breakdown. We again take on a lot of money for research, innovation and digital progress. Of course, not only the how much, but also what is crucial. From 2022 onwards, 100 million euros per year continue to flow from the resources of the climate economic package in research and technology projects particularly relevant to climate and the environment. The promotion of key technologies or artificial intelligence plays a particularly important role here: Only if we succeed in the digital transformation will we succeed in the green transformation. Therefore, this budget is also used especially for the financing of central research and research funding institutions such as AIT, FFG or AWS. All these research and development areas are important for promoting and expanding green-tech solutions and other climate-related technologies and measures. These measures and funding can be used, for example, for the digitisation of production or research in the field of electromobility in climate-neutral smartness. As a speaker for digitization, I am very happy about this budget. Throughout the various subgroups and resorts, more than 400 million euros are available for digitisation in 2022, whether in justice, public administration, education, the fight against cybercrime or infrastructure development. A major component is, for example, the digitalization offensive in the school sector. We see digital education and training as an essential prerequisite and an important investment for the future. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] This is important not only so that technical solutions can be understood and used in this area, but also for the related issues such as dealing with social media or raising awareness of data protection. For a successful economic location in Austria, we also see a digitally formed society as a central pillar. The equipment of schools and pupils with the necessary technical infrastructure and equipment is a prerequisite. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] In this way, all students of the 5th century will become students of the 5th century. School level digital terminals are obtained. Of course, all these measures and technical requirements in the field of education require adequate funding, which is ensured by this budget. However, it is not only for students to benefit from the digital transformation. The ongoing Covid-19 Pandemic has brought to our attention their opportunities and, in part, even needs. The successful use of digital solutions in the workplace and in the private sector, of course, also requires some infrastructure, and we also have a budget for this area in the urban and rural areas. There is not only the potential of digitalisation in the private and professional sectors, but also in public administration. For this purpose too we have again 80 million euros in the Digitalisation Fund, which can be accessed. The Digitalisation Fund is the financial basis for implementing measures for a citizen-oriented service-oriented administration with a modern digital infrastructure. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] In summary, innovation and research as well as digitisation are among the most important instruments available to us to address the challenges of our time. Whether it be the climate crisis or the following crises that will happen to us: The possibility, strength and drive of work in these areas is very important not only for our own well-being, but also for the well-being of generations to come. With the resources of this budget, we have created the necessary conditions across different subgroups and resorts. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e52698	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gerald Hauser. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e52722	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen. Today I was quite surprised at the fact that, in the early days, Mrs Geessler spoke consistently against the wishes of the Tyroleans and the Stubai population, against the desire to realize a lug tunnel. I had very little hope in the run-up because our initiatives on this matter in the Committee were postponed, rejected in plenary, but hope always dies, as you know, at the end, and we continue to fight, even with the support of other political groups, and it actually seems that there is no happy end to the transient population without a swirling of the EIA in this matter. In any case, Mrs. Geessler today also announces about the "Tyrol daily" – I quote –: “The tunnel solution required by the community, the Wipptal mayors and LH Günther Platter (VP)” – and by us, by other groups – “is not a target.” And – I continue to quote – there would be “no factual arguments” that speak for the tunnel. So I really don't know. We have now drilled into the committees for months now, but we have put forward arguments which seem to hit deaf ears on the part of Mrs Minister. I gather the situation – as a Tyrolean I know it –: The transit numbers explode again. The increase in truck transit alone in the third quarter of this year is 7.44 percent. In total – third quarter – 1 822,000 trucks have already used the Brenner Route – of course, in addition to cars. I am always from East Tyrol to the capital of the country, and I know from my own experience that getting through at certain times is a real problem, so congestion is announced. And that is why it is incomprehensible that, despite these rising transit figures, there is no solution that relieves the population according to their wishes. It is also true that the Brenner base tunnel will perhaps be finished in 2030, so there will be no discharge from it until then. That is why 17 communities of the Wippale and their population have spoken out for the tunnel variant – after the renovation of the bridge – on which we have agreed in the meantime, because the bridge is urgently to be renovated – after rehabilitation of the bridge, so that a tunnel variant is implemented, an overall strategy is implemented, including the noise protection measures. I am pleased to have supported my colleague Hermann Gahr, who has also made petitions in the Wipptal and has asked the people to support these petitions – they are all present. It also made Landeshaufmann Platter a change of course – originally he was for the bridge solution, but then he made a swivel towards tunnel solution – he even threatened with the Red Card and meant: Well, if the Viennans continue to do so, then I will demand that the toll revenue, which will be realized via the Asfinag in Tyrol, will also be invested in Tyrol. [[Abg. Hörl: It would have been good anyway!]] In this respect, we have also tabled a request which has also been postponed, so we have not received any support. It is interesting to answer the question raised by the Minister on 16.7.2021, because to my question: “What were the arguments against the tunnel variant?” she writes – I can quote from this request answer –: “In view of the importance of the A13 Brenner motorway for society and the economy and the therefore very high expectation of availability [...], a bridge is to be seen as the only targeting solution from the point of view of the ASFINAG and the BMK.” – This is far from an argument. And the only argument is: “But also with regard to environmental impacts, the bridge is clearly in favour.” – I wonder: Where's the population? So sometime, politics will also have to think of the population that is actually transitory. So: no argument in this response to the question to the population, which also frightens me. That's why I'm making our request today and I'm looking towards ÖVP, and I'm telling you quite honestly: In the government constellation, you will not continue with the green partner in the question. We have tried everything, even the visit of Mrs Minister at least to the committees, so that I can restore it correctly, has not been made. There was a discussion with the citizens concerned in the communities, with the citizens' initiatives, with the mayors – this has never happened. That is why today again the start and also the request towards ÖVP: If you really want to implement the wishes of the transit-patched Tyrolean population for the realization of the lueg tunnel, then you will have to get up sometime and support this initiative, otherwise nothing will be left except Blabla! So according to the motto: except for spouts, nothing has been done! I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a call to support the people concerned, and one cannot really be against such a request at all. If you vote against this proposal again today, you really leave the population in the rain. And I say again: In Tyrol you say A and in the far away Vienna you do exactly the opposite, and that really can't be it. I am excited whether the ÖVP is showing backbone today and supporting this initiative. - Thank you very much. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[14:17]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e52843	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Mag.a Dr.in Maria Theresia Niss. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e52867	Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning, I have to address my colleague Schmiedlechner's statement, who has said that one sees that vaccination does not work because the numbers are now exploding. I have to say quite honestly, Mr colleague – and I do not see him at all now; perhaps the blue colleagues can do this to him, but there are hardly any here – I think that this statement is not only wrong, but it is misleading and dangerous. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report and for his excellent report.]] You know very well that 75 percent of the people on intensive care stations are not vaccinated, and the remaining 25 percent have largely pre-diseases. And there has just been an APA notification that says that the third vaccination, which is now taking place more and more, significantly decreases the number of vaccinations. So I can only say again or make the call: Please, be vaccinated for the first time, for the second and for the third time! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] But now I can, and I am glad to say this, speak to something more positive: once again to research. Not that I have nothing else to say, but that's just the key to success, that's the key to having a future that is more digital, but above all more climate-friendly. Because only with research and innovation will we create an energy transition, only with research and innovation will we make our mobility more climate friendly and only with research and innovation will we be able to produce our steel without emissions once. And the positive thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that in all these areas Austrian companies are at the forefront. But it is essential that they, of course, also receive proper research funding. That is why I am pleased that we have achieved significant increases both in the UG 33, i.e. in the ministry of Mrs. Schramböck, as well as in the UG 34, with Mrs. Geessler. At Mrs Schramböck, we now have 170 million euros, with Mrs Geessler, it is 580 million euros that will be invested in these important areas. Moreover, the investment premium, which, of course, has been especially beneficial for investment in digitalisation, but also in ecologicalisation. In addition, all the Ipcei projects, the European projects that go into as important technologies as battery technology or hydrogen. These are especially important projects at the FFG, the open programmes, but also the thematic programmes. We were able to reach increases of 30 million euros to 180 or 160 million euros respectively. Last but not least, this concerns the so positive research premium for this location – also an open-minded programme that enables our companies to make the best research in Austria. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] Since we know that every euro that goes into research funding achieves 6 euros in GDP increase in the long term, that is, I think, well-invested money. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I would like to point out a need in this context, and that is the aspect of technology neutrality. Let me also say why this is so important: We do not yet know which technology is the targeting one in the future. We don't know if it's the alternative fuels, whether it's battery technology, whether it's going to be hydrogen. Our companies must therefore continue to be able to research in all these areas. You do, too. Look For example, you are looking at the AVL in Graz – originally an expert in the field of internal combustion engines, this company is researching in all three areas mentioned. This is good and important, because, ladies and gentlemen, competition is not only necessary and important in principle, but above all in research. We must make this possible, and that is why these open-minded programmes, such as the basic FFG programmes, are so important to this location as well as the research premium. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Disoski.]] To sum up, I can say: This budget is a positive one for the location. With this research budget, we manage to enable research in Austria, and I believe that the location, the citizens, but also the environment and the climate will thank us. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e52959	Mr Magnus Brunner spoke on a point of view. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e52980	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Today, as already mentioned, I am entitled to represent the Federal Minister, who is in quarantine due to a covid case in her area. Yes, you can see: The pandemic overshadows everything, but climate protection, energy change, mobility, innovation play a crucial role throughout society and in the awareness of the population. We all know the challenges, they're big, and we'll figure them out in the budget accordingly. Now I am not necessarily known as Alemann for great emotional jubilation, but what has just been achieved in these areas in the budget is really great and together with the tax reform is really an incredible and inconceivable throw, which has succeeded here. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In terms of climate protection, it has long been no longer the question of whether something has to happen, whether we have to do something, but it is the question of how we do it. Of course, it is also about reducing CO2 emissions, but it is not only about strengthening the economic location with investments, with innovation, with cooperation as a whole. This must be the objective and this is clearly reflected in this budget, but also in the eco-social tax reform. We provide almost 2.5 billion euros for climate protection, for the environment and for energy, for the energy transition alone from this UG for 2022. I would like to exemplify a few important examples: The 590 million euro rehabilitation offensive, which was launched in 2022, was mentioned. We increase the UFI's resources to 150 million euros. This also supports concrete projects, investments in the energy transition and energy efficiency. We are financing the climate and energy funds with more than EUR 40 million in addition to the EAG, where we provide EUR 1 billion per year, and we continue to develop renewable energy, and we will ensure a very balanced entry into the new CO2 pricing system with the climate bonus already discussed today. So it's not just a record budget for climate protection, it's a very common package that we're putting on the way here. We give incentives to the population and the economy with this budget, including for changing to more climate-friendly behaviour. I am convinced in this regard that we should not work with bans, nor do we get far with bans, but we must always have in mind the realities of people's lives for reasonable climate protection, and also make sense in connecting people's life realities with the economy. I can also say a few sentences on traffic. Of course, this plays a crucial role in climate protection. A third of CO2 emissions come from transport, which is of course a child of concern, and we are facing huge challenges here. In the transport sector, we increase the budget to a total of more than EUR 4.8 billion in 2022, which is a record. There are actually two large pillars on which we need to build. On the one hand, we are dramatically expanding public transport, Mr Stöger mentioned it. Of course, by investing more than 18 billion euros in infrastructure, in rail infrastructure in the next few years. However, with the climate ticket, we also create an offer to support the changeover accordingly. This isn't either, but it's both. The fears of Mr Stöger, I think, can also be disheartened here: This is an incredibly attractive offer for the changeover and is of course not to the detriment of the expansion of the railway infrastructure. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Because Mr Stöger has rightly said that we must also support rail freight: Yes, we do, too, by providing 160 million euros for rail freight transport in the budget. That's the part: Development of public transport. Of course, on the other hand, the second pillar is to force clean drive forms. For example, we provide almost 170 million euros in the electric mobility package for the purchase of emission-free vehicles – an important step in the transition to clean drive modes. It's clear: The goal must be to focus on innovation. Mr Niss said this very well before. We will only be able to achieve our energy, environmental objectives through innovation. We do not yet know all the technologies we will need – at least in the final development phase – to achieve our goals. Innovation is therefore a very crucial factor, a key to achieving our climate objectives, our energy objectives, our overall environmental objectives. It is also important to remain open to technology. That's crucial. We need to force many clean technologies. Many clean technologies will also exist side by side. It will have to be a mix if we take our goals seriously. We therefore support companies and research institutions in the field of research and development, especially in the field of research and development – MEPs Niss did this before – in developing new technologies, from alternative fuels to e-mobility, to space. So there's also a lot inside. It is clear that science and research make a very crucial contribution to solving the major social problems we have, and that social challenges can only be overcome through innovation, research and development. This budget shall take account of this claim. It places a very great emphasis on research, development and innovation. I would like to focus on this area: These are the Ipcei projects – these are the Important Projects of Common European Interest – in which we focus once again on hydrogen, microelectronics, and in which additional funds are made available for other microelectronic projects in the budget to enable Austrian companies to participate in European projects in these future fields. We also make that available with this budget. In total, this is a very encouraging budget in the areas of climate protection, the environment, energy, mobility, innovation, which will also address the major challenges of the future that come to us accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e53068	The next speaker is Dr. Johannes Margreiter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e53093	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Watchers in front of the screens! – Mr State Secretary! Falco, an icon of Austrian music history, began his first big hit with the text line: ‘One, two, three, after there’s nothing in it.’ We would like to see this now also as a vaccination call, following colleague Niss. I want to go to another subject. After a detailed review and careful study of the great litter of the Federal Minister, the so-called climate ticket, I asked myself: What actually happened to the original idea of the green campaign slogan, which has also found precipitation in the government program, the 1-2-3 ticket? – Yes, then it was Falco, who was finally best able to explain it to me. Back to the idea of origin, 2017, a simple message: Public mobility by 1 Euro per day in one federal state, 2 Euro per day in two federal states and 3 Euro per day throughout Austria. The incentive to adapt cheaply to public transport really has something, but there are many problems now in implementing this climate ticket. Once again, there is the problem that the expansion of public transport is still lagging behind. As an example – as one of many – let us take the big Steyr–Linz space: There is a railway connection – 35 minutes you would need by S-Bahn –, only a few trains. The offer of trains is so bad that the car is still spent mainly on the car. There is a large shuttle parking lot at the station, which is empty. That would be very quick to remedy. Let us come to the next topic – and especially now, at the time of the climate conference, we will again be aware of it: The climate crisis is here, we have the Klima-GAU, because you really have to look at this climate ticket very critically. The climate ticket is a success, but above all a marketing success. How far the climate ticket will actually contribute to reducing CO2 emissions, this remains to be expected, especially since it is now used by people who have already been on public transport. Finally, as the Tyrolean Member of Parliament, I should like to say that this has made the climate policy of the Ministry of Climate Change more concrete in order to improve the situation on the Brenner route, to reduce the congestion of transport. [[After a moment of silence:]] You are right to say: There's no improvement. Ladies and gentlemen in the House, we are facing a real challenge to cope with the climate crisis. We have not made much further progress, not least because of the green, halfhearted climate policy, which is too turquoise. So I end this speech with another excerpt from the first quoted song of Falco “And this frustration makes us mute”. [[Abg. Sieber:... and nobody's claping!]] – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e53135	The next speaker is Mr Lukas Hammer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e53160	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! On this budget with a total of 1,9 billion euros – if you look at all UGs and really look at climate protection – you can be proud from the perspective of climate protection. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] This is about four times as much as the climate protection bend of the last federal government without green government participation. The Secretary of State has also referred to a number of elements. Next year, we planned 500 million euros for heating and thermal renovation, 68 million euros for cycling and pedestrian transport. All promoters, whether UFI or other pots, are being increased. I think this is a very nice budget from the perspective of climate protection. I would like to refer to one point and also to the request, because Mr von der SPÖ has tabled: We were together at the Climate Conference in Glasgow. It was very impressive to hear the descriptions of fellow Members from countries most affected by the climate crisis, although they have least contributed to it. It is quite clear that, on the one hand, it requires solidarity that we help these countries, but on the other, it is also extremely important that we set signs in the negotiation processes. Mr President, in her request for climate financing to be doubled in 2019. The good news is: If we were to implement this proposal, we would have to reduce climate financing. I don't want to. We have more than quadrupled the funding for the Green Climate Fund alone, from EUR 30 million to EUR 130 million. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What is particularly important to me, also with regard to the effect: In your request, you have mentioned that adaptation is a particularly important issue. Yeah, that's right. The Ministry of Climate Change strongly expands the budget for the bilateral climate protection projects, where we have 20 million euros at our disposal over the next four years. In recent years it has been close to zero. 20 million euros! If we compare this with what we give to the adaptation fund, then of course this is a different dimension. I think they are projects of the highest quality, because they are really bilateral projects, in which we also work with NGOs, with local, also indigenous communities on the ground, because, like Nicaragua, it would be completely absurd to work with governments. I believe that these are very good projects, which on the one hand are about mitigation, that is, greenhouse gas reduction, but also about adaptation. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the very dedicated officials in the Ministry of Climate Change who accompany these projects. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Climate protection, and we all know that, is more than just promoting good. You also have to leave the wrong thing. In the middle of the climate crisis, it is wrong to hold on to motorway projects planned in the 1970s. Those who build motorways will reap car traffic. Dear Colleagues of SPÖ and NEOS, you like to recommend the announcements of the Federal Government in various newspapers. In Vienna, however, the red-pink city government presents propaganda for the Lobau motorway with millions of means of taxation, with absolute untruths. I would like you to apply the same standards you apply here once in Vienna. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They would thus provide a good service for both taxpayers and climate protection. At this point I also say: My solidarity applies to all those young people who have endured in the Lobau for many weeks because they are committed to their future and against the construction of a climate and environmental highway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e53235	Mr Alois Schroll is speaking on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e53259	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! If we look at the sub-division 43, the issue of energy, in detail, what I have of course done very precisely as an energy speaker, then we can sum up briefly: little ambitious and hardly public resources for the energy sector. Conlusio of which: Unfortunately, the energy transition plays a relatively insignificant role in the budget of God. All planned projects will be paid to and for 100 percent of the energy customers themselves, if once implemented. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] The energy part in the budget is really very sweet, but he doesn't really play the music of the future, I can say that as a former musician. However, if you look at another area, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of energy, namely the exorbitant, significant price increase for electricity and gas customers, you can see quite clearly: Ignorance, failure, unplanned watching and waiting. The juicy rise in wholesale prices for electricity and gas – they have almost quadrupled since January 2021 – will soon hit the households. The European Commission has already presented to all EU Member States a Toolbox in the form of proposals for measures - halving VAT, turnover taxes and everything that belongs to it, or direct payments. What did our government do? - Nothing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Some EU countries, such as Spain, France, Hungary, have already responded, have lowered taxes, have already announced additional measures such as compensation payments, but, I repeat: What has our Federal Government done so far? - Nothing! On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen, They claim that the high prices will already fall in the spring of 2022. This is contrary to the E-Control statements, look at the APA notifications and broadcasts. You just have to say – just as you see it quite clearly and clearly in the management of Covid, you have to repeat it in this regard today –: It's sad, it's a failure that household customers will feel. In the Council of Heads of Government on 21.10.2021, Austria advocated waiting and keeping its head cool. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, what the Minister of Finance has said? - Let's see! Let's see how the price develops! Federal Chancellor Schallenberg said in the EU's main committee: We look and watch this market! There once was an emperor, Emperor Franz Beckenbauer, who said at the football court: “Look at this! ” – In contrast to the government, they have brought something together. Do you know what my colleagues and friends say when I get home from Parliament tomorrow? - Well, they're beautiful showers! They'll say that to me. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore propose the following resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Dear Green, the appeal goes to you, you advertised in 2019 that the grace chooses green. If you have a suit, then today you will vote for the hundreds of thousands of households so that we can protect the people so that no one has to sit in the window, no one is turned off and no one has to freeze in winter. [[Calls for Greens]] - Thank you. [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] [[14:43]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e53400	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is also under negotiation. Mrs Tanja Graf has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e53429	Mr President. Estimated State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewer! Before I start my speech, I may be allowed to explain a myth that my colleague Schroll has spread – that the government in Austria is not doing anything for the social sector with this budget – and to keep one in mind: I'll show you this graphic, here you see that half of the total budget, that's 47 billion euros, is invested in social affairs. [[a panel showing an overview of the 2022 budget towards SPÖ lines]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hörl: Violent!]] You addressed the topic of energy: 90 million euros will be reserved for low-income households in our UG 43 alone. [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens.]] The countries are really doing a lot, the country Salzburg has decided to grant a heating fee of 150 euros per application, interestingly Carinthia is doing something, Vorarlberg is doing something, but Vienna? Please look at Vienna! In Vienna, the heating cost grant is part of the minimum guarantee. Is that social? – To grant a heating fee to someone and to say that he is charged with the minimum guarantee, that is not social. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Look at this before you show your finger somewhere! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] But now to the budget: Upswing, stability and sustainability – this shows us the UG 43. We have achieved an increase of 253 percent, which is really excellent, the budget increases from 680 million euros to 2.4 billion euros. It has been mentioned briefly today that environmental promotion in the country is also a personal concern to me as an entrepreneur, we will increase it by 40 million euros. We want to support energy-intensive businesses that want to save efficiently with these 40 million euros. The development plan for Europe also supports 149 million euros, which are used for the circular economy – this is also an important topic for us – and climate-friendly local cores are supported with this, and it also supports the decarbonisation of the industry. A core piece will be the climate bonus. Mr President, you said that it depends on the postal code. I should like to remind you of how many commuters there are, who go into work every day and finance our budget, who work every day and finance our budget with their contributions. They don't have it so easy that they can enter the city into the subway. It makes a difference whether you live in the city or whether you live in the country where you need a car, so a climate bonus is also justified. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] With this budget, we are really setting the right incentives to achieve our objectives. But what is still important in addition to budgeting, which is a personal concern to me as an energy speaker: We have set our goals – we have launched the Renewable Development Act – which we want to meet. These objectives need the acceptance of citizens, and I really ask for acceptance. It can't be that we're yelling at clean electricity, but blocking the expansion of renewables. That's what I'm asking: Please speak to the people in the environment, because it cannot be that environmental protection is blocking climate protection! That's not how it works, so we'll get a problem with our goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e53501	Mr Erwin Angerer has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e53527	Mr President. High house! Mr State Secretary! Yes, Mr State Secretary, you have said it in principle: It is not the question of whether to do something for climate protection, but the question is how to do it. On the question of how: You said today that E-Fuels are supported by the Federal Government. It also makes sense from our point of view that combustion engines with fuel, which is CO2-neutral, can continue to be used. On the other hand, the climate minister, who is not here today, is voting in Glasgow at the climate conference to prohibit combustion engines from 2030. So how does this fit in in this federal government when one says hüh and the other hot? If the climate minister agrees that combustion engines will be banned in Austria from 2030, you will no longer be able to throw your e-fuels – I don't know where – into an engine. You may be able to do this until the liberals are back in the government, then we can put it back in place. Obviously, the Minister for Climate Change, Mrs Weessler, focuses exclusively on e-mobility. Here we are on the next topic: Where will the electricity we need for all this e-mobility come from? – Everyone who controls the little once knows that with the existing resources – whether the networks or the energy generators – this is not feasible. If you start by turning off stable energy generators, and on the other hand, you want to make a substitute for completely unstable energy generation over wind and sun – that's not going to work. You don't need to be a scientist to know this today. The next topic is the proportionality of the measures: You now want to introduce a CO2 price, as you call it. That's nothing but a tax, a tax on energy, a tax on fuels, a tax on everything people need, whether it's the commuter, whether it's the people who heat their homes. They tax this and want to achieve a steering effect that people then save on CO2 in this area. There are also serious doubts as to whether this will have a steering effect at all, whether it will have an effect at all or perhaps even the opposite effect. As Mr Fuchs said yesterday, it is absurd that when the climate bonus is distributed, the one on the one hand receives a different amount than the other on the other side of the road. You do not know today – I asked you in committee about it – how you will even pay off it, whether you pay it out cash or whether you make it through tax relief. It's all not clear yet. So these are all uncertainties, and they basically do not burden anyone other than the population, the citizens. We already have a lot of taxation on CO2 today, indirect CO2 taxes. The Wifo has calculated that through the indirect CO2 tax, energy tax, for example, is already 195 euros tax on petrol per tonne, while diesel is 147 euros, fuel oil is 40 euros, gas is 30 euros and coal is 18 euros. Now, neither the 30 euros through the eco-social tax reform, as you call it, will be added to our view that is neither ecological nor social. Moreover, households already have additional burdens, which, of course, will also pay this energy tax. One assumes, also again, a calculation of the Wifo, 127 euros per household per CO2 tonne. For a household with a consumption of around 20 000 kWh per year, for heating, for electricity, for water, for whatever, we are talking today about a burden on the budget of 500 euros, which is the burden that is already given. A second essential factor that, in addition to your tax burden, raises energy prices is the wrong economic policy – both in Austria and at EU level. There is an extreme price increase in these areas. It's about fuels and heating oil, so it's about the things that commuters need and people need as a whole to keep their apartments warm. Why the EU? – Because it has not been possible at EU level to conclude long-term contracts with our largest supplier, Russia, and to establish price stability. Today, there are huge price increases in all these areas and they are burdening our households. In addition, there is inflation, which now explodes; the National Bank President has sleepless nights. You don't know what's going to happen to us in the next few years. In any case, there will be a massive burden on the Austrian population as a whole, especially on the socially weak groups. 1.2 million people live in Austria at the poverty line, and you drive these people into energy poverty. This government is driving people into energy poverty: On the one hand, the burden on this tax and on the other price increases in electricity and for heating. That is, in Austria the lights will go out in the houses, which is to be feared. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope that this ÖVP has so much social heart that it allows people in Austria to heat at least. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[14:53]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e53732	The application is properly filed and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Astrid Rössler has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e53760	Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear listeners at home in front of the screens! A lot has already been discussed on climate and energy. As an environmental speaker, I can bring you a little closer to the long list of other very important environmental agendas. Because, in fact, the budget allocated is hiding behind or presenting important projects planned in the coming years. Climate protection requires an intact nature, not only a variety of animal and plant species and habitats, but also intact ecosystems. Only intact ecosystems are resistant ecosystems. This is the only way ecosystems can deliver their diverse services for human health, food production, clean air and clean water, only then they can develop their effect. The environmental budget is therefore a future budget, a budget for a healthy environment and nature. This future budget is devoted to a number of different tasks in this area. First priority: Biodiversity Fund. Over the next few years, 80 million euros will be available for the restoration of already damaged ecosystems, but also for the protection of endangered species and habitats. Of these, 50 million euros come from the EU recovery fund. This is an important contribution to improving and maintaining the quality of natural space, ecosystems, and to halting the negative trend. Second priority: Waste management – this is a large, important chapter because it is related to resource consumption, but also to pollutant inputs into the environment, into nature. First of all, it is about avoiding, reuse and reuse. This includes the large circular economy package that we will discuss and decide here in the Committee tomorrow, which I look forward to. It contains the long-awaited multi-way system for beverage packaging and also a fee for disposable packaging, plastic and beverage cans. In the next few years alone, 110 million euros will be available to support a larger conversion of the filling plants, the cleaning plants, but also the withdrawal machines. 110 million euros go into the circular economy package. Repairs are also promoted. There are 130 million euros of repair bonus for this alone. The waste is therefore significantly delayed in electronics and electrical appliances. We have the biggest increases in waste especially in the area. Textiles and electrical and electronic equipment are currently showing a strong upward trend in waste. Microplastics as an entry in soil and water – Microplastics is unfortunately omnipresent, even in our glaciers it can be proved. It is also an action plan to avoid microplastics in preparation. Waste management also means stopping waste. The action plan against food waste is another priority in this area. The speaking time is too short. I should like to make three brief points. The third priority is to stop land consumption, to significantly reduce land consumption. In addition, the Old Load Rehabilitation Act. Brachflächenrecycling is promoted – important from the Old Load Rehabilitation Act and long overdue – and the multiple use. Old decommissioned landfills can also supply energy with PV systems. Fourth priority: reduce pollutants. This is primarily about air pollutants. This is a matter of health protection. It is also about supporting and keeping our ecosystems intact. And finally, fifth: This concerns the contribution of public administration as a major lever for environmentally friendly procurement, for sustainable, resource-saving procurement. The Sustainable Procurement Action Plan is a major throw in the field of public procurement of the federal government. I very much hope that countries and communities will soon join with decisions in this procurement system. This is an invitation to the communities to take over this because it is a great lever for sustainability. The environmental budget is a top budget, and I am looking forward to its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e53821	The next speaker is Dr. Helmut Brandstätter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e53845	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Yeah, we're talking about money, and so we're talking about the resources for research. By the way: The work as a spokesman for research makes a lot of joy, because you meet with very interesting, great people in Austria, who of course also complain sometimes. I have already quoted some who have written to me about the antiscientific nature of the country, which has always existed, but which has become much stronger in recent times. I am also pleased with the agreement on this point with Professor Taschner. I should like to quote Mrs. Saskia Stachovich from the Austrian Institute of International Politics. She also writes about an increasing antiscientific nature by political leaders. Independent science, however, is a cornerstone of an informed and critical public and thus democracy. Or Prof. Zielinski, oncologist, you know him: We owe to scientists all progress, including the very rapid development of effective vaccination, but Austrian politics all the problems, Ischgl, Upper Austria, Salzburg. - Quote. I think that's very important. I have also quoted Prof. Greil here, who says: Do you realize that you are also responsible? We doctors, doctors, it's clear, and this, of course, has direct effects. Immediate effects also have what is being decided here. Of course, you can be delighted – if you have doubts about natural intelligence at times – that artificial intelligence is also to take place more strongly in Austria. The question is whether artificial intelligence would have written on a poster “The pandemic” is “mastered”. - Probably not. One should have dealt only with the scientists, then one would not have done this immense deception of the people in Austria. I am still waiting for an explanation of why this was the case, why people were deliberately harmed here by saying to them that the Covid pandemic is over. She's not over and we're experiencing this very painful these days. Artificial intelligence: Yes, the good thing is, there should finally be an AI strategy, it has been presented in Alpbach. Austria is to become an internationally recognised research and innovation location for AI. Figures have also been mentioned, investments are expected to rise by 3 percent, economic growth is going to increase by 3 percent by 2035 – all wonderful. But it has not been mentioned: How is it financed? – The Germans have presented an AI strategy that is financed by 3 billion euros, the Austrians have presented an AI strategy that will take place or not because it is not financed and nobody knows where the money comes from. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] To say something positive: Of course, the AI will change all our lives, and we also have to deal with them. There is a researcher in Vienna, Ms. Sarah Speichermann, an economic computerist who has already established rules and recently announced this. This is also something that policy should deal with. As I said, the positive thing is that in the country we also have people who work intensively on it. However, I would like to come to another focus of research, namely space research: We held a very interesting discussion in the Research Committee with Josef Aschbacher, the head of the ESA, the European Space Agency, an Austrian, who, however, made us very clear that our contribution to the ESA through the fact that we have not increased it goes back and forth, and that we have to triple it so that we can keep up with countries such as Switzerland halfway. We don't, and what's the effect? – The effect is that in all the competition there is to be, less money flows back to Austria. All of us have explained to us, also the Federal Minister: Every euro invested in space research comes back many times. But we don't invest him, so he won't come back, and that's a big failure. Not only that we invest too little, no, we also chase people who are very good in this area. Mr. Aschbacher has given us an example and I have now researched this: That's Spire Global. Peter Platzer, one of these researchers, developed a company in Austria and wanted to expand it in Austria. It has developed nanosatellites, which are satellites in the size of a shoe box with which, for example, the weather can be observed or other Earth observations can be made. He wanted to promote research in Austria, he didn't get it. He tried to set up venture capital in Austria, he didn't get it. What did he do? – He went to Silicon Valley, brought his company there, brought it to the New York Stock Exchange in August, and she is worth well over 1 billion euros. These are opportunities that we are constantly avoiding, because we invest too little in the right place and because the mood in the country is not after the best To keep people in the country. I'm deliberately talking about an elite, not an elite in the sense of the family – you belong to it anyway! – but in the sense of an elite, because they are the best because they do great research. Unfortunately, we can't, and that's why I brought you a book, of course, because you can find it sometime. I read it in English, which is more polite: “History of Science for Dummies”. [[The speaker keeps the so-called book of Winfried Göpfert in height.]] I can really recommend this, because you learn a lot of positive about the origin of science. People who say that if we take too much into account the environment, we come back to the Stone Age, there will be a bit of problems. The Stone Age is then a bit longer behind – for those who do not know. It starts with the Sumers, but is also interesting, and contains a lot of details, by the way also an interesting article about the zero and who invented it. This is not political, but you can read it in this sense, too, if you want. I can only warmly recommend the book, and perhaps reading more people also helps us to have a little less science hostility in the country. It would bring us more prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e53928	Member of Parliament Michael Hammer has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e53949	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! We are dealing with the large budget area and chapter climate, environment and energy. If you look at the superficial budget analysis for this whole area alone with an increase of 253 percent, you have to say that there are usually only two explanations for this: Either this is very small amounts, where there is some change, which is so and so much due to a small increase in the percentage, or there is a fundamental change throughout the budget. This is precisely the subject of this 2022 budgetary transition and the Federal Financial Framework for the following years. By implementing the eco-social tax reform, by entering the CO2 price and by compensating for the introduction of the regional climate bonus – and this is a large part of the budget that is pictured here – this is really a system change of greater scale. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] However, it is parallel to that - one must of course look more closely at the figures - not only this change that constitutes the major budgetary change, but also the budget for the entire environment will increase by a total of EUR 117 million, which will enable additional measures for the environment to be put in place for climate protection. I think that can be seen, too, because there is really a lot to be done. I would like to say a few words about eco-social tax reform, which is really a milestone: It begins with a moderate entry into the CO2 price, and it was of course important to us that this does not start too strongly, is moderate and compatible and above all also acts as a promotion and incentive for environmentally friendly behavior. I think this is very important for environmental and climate protection. However, we were also important – and this is illustrated in the eco-social tax reform – that, in return, we relieve the Austrians, especially the families, what we do by the tax reform with the reduction of the income tax rate, with the increase in the family bonus by 500 euros and with the introduction of the regional climate bonus to compensate for the CO2 price. What's particularly important to me is: We have also agreed on the fact that the pendler's fee remains, so that the commutors are commuted accordingly. In conclusion, I would also like to say that this is very well presented in the budget and, above all, very important to me, that we always look at its impact in policy-making. If you look at the objectives of action in the field of climate protection and the environment, you know, these are really the ones through which we can implement our goal to protect climate with our home mind, because we can measure how effective and how meaningful measures we implement. I am thinking only of the ratio of the share of renewable energy sources or of how many employees and how much value added there is in the field of environmental and energy technology, so that you can really see how these green jobs are created by system change. There are a number of other key figures that are really very meaningful and make political action measurable. I believe that we really have a good budget for environmental and climate protection here, and we are very happy to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e54003	Mr Litschauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e54025	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for the preface, I can basically join in there. There's only one term that triggers me a bit, and that's the term: Climate protection with home mind. But this has nothing to do with the previous speaker, but rather with another group sitting in the middle, because when the term is used there, it triggers me because it usually means: Now someone wants to get on the brake. Sometimes, I think, this has to do with the fact that the house mind is concerned with the experiences of the past, but little with innovation forward. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] This is also noted by the fact that energy efficiency is not at the forefront, and this is particularly noted in the discussion about the e-fuels. CO2-neutral does not yet mean that this is a solution, because these fuels also produce exhaust gases, even these combustion engines produce noise, and we do not want both. [[Abg. Deimek: This is an announcement!]] In addition, these e-fuels need five to ten times as much energy as an electric drive. If I hear here, a proposal is that we import these e-fuels from Saudi Arabia, then I'm excited about how this should work, because these e-fuels stand out: the container ships, the aircraft industry; all possible industries want to have that, and you really believe that these e-fuels come to Austria if they don't stay somewhere in the Suez Canal or be consumed somewhere else! You promise solutions that don't come. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Deimek:... you'd be pretty stupid!]] The background is: You just want to keep one combustion engine alive and look for an argumentation chain, and the primary energy is meat! We cannot afford to waste five to ten times as much energy just to keep an engine alive. [[Abg. Deimek:... in the forest district not arrived! Go to...!]] That's where I'm on the next topic: I cannot understand why we want to fall into the import dependence of Saudi Arabia. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interlocutory note by Secretary-General Brunner.]] We've gone into Russia's dependence for decades because there's enough people who claimed that natural gas is the bridge technology. Natural gas is the bridge technology – the bridge technology into energy poverty, because the customers have been led there. For decades they have been sold that natural gas heating is the future. – They were never! I already said two decades ago, we have to get out of natural gas, and now we have the dilemma that many are hanging on these natural gas heaters and don't know how to pay for the gas heaters. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Who's responsible for that? When we look at Vienna: Why is there so much gas there? Who went to Russia and signed the natural gas contracts, so that we're in Bredouille now? – Unfortunately, I have to look to the left. [[towards SPÖ looking]] You don't know how you come out of the responsibility you've built up for decades, and now you're proposing that we reduce VAT on gas. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You don't think of anything better? The reduction of VAT on natural gas so that the pools can continue to be heated cheaply so that the penthouse apartments can be heated cheaply, because it doesn't matter that you keep the system of natural gas alive – that can't be the solution! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Waller.]] We have created a system with the climate bonus, which Mr Koza said very well yesterday, which should, in particular, relieve low incomes, and that is where we have to start, but not with a general reduction in VAT! We always say that climate protection is only one of two sides of the medal, I heard it before, but the reduction of VAT on natural gas is the very opposite of climate protection. If you're talking to a split tongue like that, I have to confess, I can't stand it anymore. If we want climate protection, we can't talk to split tongues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e54149	Member of the Committee of the Regions. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e54170	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr State Secretary! There is a lot of emotion behind that, but you can see that colleague Litschauer is really with heart blood on this subject. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Today we are discussing the budget for 2022 and the financial framework by 2025, and I would like to comment on mobility, UG 41. The Secretary of State has already said in his statement of entry that there is a lot of emotionality behind it when it comes to mobility, because it is important in the lives of every individual person. That is why it is also important that the figures in the budget vote accordingly on this issue. This complex has succeeded in increasing mobility in subheading 41 by 668.4 million euros for the current financial period by 2025, and 430 million euros of it are available for regional climate tickets. I would also like to thank the fact that the clear commitment from you, Mr State Secretary, has come, but also from the Minister at previous meetings, that the policy in which one creates incentives is better than the policy in which one acts with bans. [[Abg. Worm: Ah!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] The climate ticket is such a demonstration project with which to create it accordingly. The climate ticket is really a success project, but of course there are also improvements in the transport infrastructure. The climate ticket is a good alternative for very, very many people, but not for all. It has already been mentioned in the discussion that, of course, on the country outside, people do not have the subway on the doorstep to which they can enter. It has also been said that, of course, the people who have to go to work, to shop, several kilometers and not have public transport available to do so. So it's necessary to make alternatives there. I would also like to use the climate ticket, but if there is a morning meeting in Vienna, I do not come from Lungau with public transport. When I drive with the public, I can only take part in an afternoon meeting. [[Abg. Cashier: Arrive the day before!]] So we need opportunities for improvement, which are of course also envisaged for the future. In Salzburg there would certainly be some things that we could address, for example the S-Bahn to the Mirabellplatz or the Pinzgau local railway, but also – for me personally interesting – the Murtalbahn, which might also be remembered as a pilot project with the energy source hydrogen, cross-border Styria–Salzburg. The former colleague Karl Schmidhofer has already thought about this. Perhaps it would be possible to think accordingly in this direction. So there are many things that have already been achieved, and for the future there is still a lot left. To sum up, I can say that we can agree with this budget with good conscience. It is a good budget for mobility, and it strengthens the path of the eco-social market economy that Joschi Riegler began 30 years ago.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e54232	Mr Gahr is speaking on behalf of the European Democratic Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e54253	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! As a Tyrolean Member, I am allowed to address the issue of transport in my home country. The ÖBB Framework Plan provides for the expansion of rail infrastructure by EUR 18.2 billion until 2027. Of this, 3.7 billion euros are spent on Tyrol and 2.7 billion euros in total on the construction of the Brenner Base Tunnel. Mr State Secretary, from my point of view, there are three clear wishes, three clear concerns about the Brenner Base Tunnel: Due to the disagreement in the board of directors, construction delays have occurred as regards the key piece between the Tyrolean Wipptal and the South Tyrol Wipptal. That is where we need, I think, total effort so that we can move as fast as possible, so that we can achieve the goal – it has already been pushed backwards – by 2032. Fortunately, just last month, a large building was again given direction to Pfons. The second is the northern runway towards Germany. It is important that we now get the OK from Germany for the fast-paced path of race discovery, which is in the decisive phase, to be built as quickly as possible. I hope that the new government in Germany is also ready to support this path. The third is the overall European dimension. With the Brenner Base Tunnel, an international axis from Berlin to Palermo, the so-called TEN axis, it will be possible to shift traffic from road to rail. I always have it Re-emphasises: In Switzerland it is possible to move 80 percent of freight on the rails and 20 percent on the road, and in Austria and in the rest of Europe it is reversed. That is why, I believe, we have clear objectives as regards transport relocation. This requires the European dimension of showing solidarity in Europe. I am somewhat concerned if there is at present a complaint from the Italian Freicherverband to the European Commission regarding the free movement of goods. That is where we need very clear statements on and in Europe. Finally, I can also say thank you. In recent years, the railway infrastructure has also been greatly expanded with us in Tyrol. We have a park-and-ride facility in Jenbach, where 400 Pendlers can park now and then use the train. We have a shift station in Hall, we have a new park-and-ride facility in Telfs. In total, therefore, a lot of transport infrastructure has been created in order to relocate passenger transport, and I believe that this route needs to be continued. The climate ticket has been mentioned many times today. I think the climate ticket creates incentives, but we have to accept the offers. Especially now, in this development in the Sprit, the changeover to public passenger transport is a command of the hour. To this end, this budget creates incentives. Thank you, Mr State Secretary. It is now being implemented actively. The framework conditions are available and we need to use them. For that, I think we need a joint shoulder closure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e54305	Next item is the speech of Mrs Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e54326	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to focus on mobility, mobility in Austria and especially in rural areas, especially in Upper Austria. I may repeat: EUR 4.842 billion will be spent in this area in 2022, a total of EUR 202 million more than in the current year. The climate ticket has already been addressed several times, we have discussed it many times in this House. I am pleased because I am convinced that it is an incentive to change to public transport. I can only invite you to make use of this ticket. From my point of view, this is a service to the environment and therefore very important for Austria. I do not want to mention the new instrument of the Stadtregionalbahn. If a connection is made beyond the city's borders, a new funding pot is available, which is donated with 50 million euros in 2023. I mention this possibility because the city of Linz and the surrounding area will also benefit from it with the Upper Austrian Regional City Railway. It is therefore of particular importance to me as a Upper Austrian, but also to the many professionals in the Linz region. This track means less nervously exhausting stress and also less time loss. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to address the ÖBB Framework Plan 2022 to 2027, which is worth EUR 18.2 billion. This will implement important aspects of the government programme. Rail transport is becoming much more attractive. As a representative of the rural area, I am also pleased that this includes 1.5 billion euros for rural areas. Regional railways are being modernised and thus more attractive. Modern railway stations, park-and-ride pitches, digital customer information systems, safety at railway crossings and route attractions are very important, though we also stand for the expansion of the rural public. For example, I see it positively that some 2,400 pitches in Upper Austria are being built in this period, that the development of the track on the Pyrnbahn, the Salzkammergutbahn, the Hausruckbahn, the Mühlkreis- und the Summerauer Bahn will be carried accordingly. I also consider the electrification of the Mattigtalbahn, the Donauuferbahn and the Almtalbahn to be very positive. For me, however, it is disappointing that Steyr and the surrounding area do not exist in this framework programme. Personally, I can't defend the impression that Steyr was pushed on the storage track. It's a shame for the whole region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e54380	Members of the European Parliament have spoken. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e54402	Mr President. High house! Mr State Secretary! When I saw the figures of this budget for climate, environment and energy, I thought: This is the winner of the race. - Congratulations to the Greens! I believe that if one goes back to the old concept, the best of two worlds, it is the fillet of these budget negotiations. I would of course also like to congratulate the Secretary of State, the Federal Minister and both environmental speakers, Mr Hammer and jewelry miners. 253 percent increase has to be achieved first. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] It is important for us that this energy change, and thus the exit from the Carbon Age, is open to technology, is discussed and implemented. This is very important for us. The old wisdom: Many ways lead to Rome!, applies. In the end, let us look for the most efficient and, due to the urgency, take all the roads that go to Rome so that we can get to the finish quickly! Mr Litschauer, I liked the comparison with the pool and the Social Democrats. It's an old story, but I'm telling you something, too. E-Fuel belongs to it as well as hydrogen and all other possibilities – because how do you want to vote on this energy change if you need a large number of Freudnau power plants alone for electromobility when you change everything? We will therefore have to rely on all energy sources, and we will also have to ensure that we make the permits and permits to the EIA and in many other areas much easier, more efficient and faster. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr State Secretary, it will not surprise you that I am excited about the hydrogen situation. Decarbonisation of industry, hydrogen and electricity instead of coal and natural gas: 30 million euros, in addition almost 100 million euros; Promotion of emission-free mobility: 167.2 million euros this year, 838 million euros by 2025. There are therefore a number of hydrogen initiatives. They know that at the Hy-West and Hy-Train projects in Tyrol, we have predominated hydrogen technology, while also trying to develop hydrogen at M-Preis, at the Zillertalbahn, at the Tiwag, at Tigas and so on, including through purity and refuelling and so on. This will be supported by 8 million euros. Also at the Zillertalbahn we have been able to save 20,000 trucks with wood on rail with binderwood on Austria's hottest hotspot in traffic next to the tangent, by the boardfall tunnel. If you give us some support, we can also do the whole thing with pellets and save another 10,000 trucks there. All in all, I think, this budget can stand for a great future. The certainty is great, even the wishes are great that we can make the energy transition as quickly as possible. However, we will only do that if we simplify procedures such as the EIA procedure, speed up approval and do what is right, namely to address this issue not only on consumption, but also on the production of energy that is urgently needed.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e54464	Mrs Pfurtscheller has been mentioned in his speech – we are staying in Tirol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e54485	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I can truly welcome a lot from the mobility budget. I am very pleased that the railway will be expanded, that the public will be expanded, but I would also like to make a very serious appeal to all my colleagues and also to the Minister of State and the Secretary of State: Please, let's not forget about the last mile! As a representative of the rural region, especially Tyrol, I would like to point out once again that it is incredibly important for us that the last mile, so to speak, is experiencing a booster – that is the new word for fashion right now. For example, in the district I come from, the district of Reutte, the last mile is not just a mile, but it is more than 50 kilometers. In a valley like the beautiful Lechtal, perhaps some of you know, because it is a natural park region in Tyrol, nearly 3,000 people live on 50 kilometers. Of course, the clocking of a bus can never be like that in the city, and it is of course not used by many people as well. It is simply incredibly important that we develop micro-oil, sharing models, innovative mobility services, so that people there feel that they can participate in this change, that they can make their first contribution, that their quality of life also increases, that they are no longer forced to have two cars at the doorway so that work and family life can work. So I really want to make a very, very big appeal. I know that a mobility master plan is to be drawn up, that the strategy process has already been started – and that has been mentioned by the Secretary of State for Budgetary Hearing – and that the framework conditions are being worked on. I'm just a little worried that because of a lot of other things, that's going to get to the bottom of it. That's why I'm going to speak words again and again. I am looking forward to the support from all sides, because infrastructure, especially in rural areas, makes it important for people to stay in rural areas. Young families, in particular, make very high demands. I can understand. As a representative of this area, it is of course very important that people continue to spend their lives there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e54522	That was a point landing. The next item is Mrs Plakolm's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e54549	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seer of today's session! I already said it in the morning: The eco-social tax reform paves the way for more generation-righteousness. Our resources are limited, both financial and our natural resources. For climate protection, we increase the budget by almost 6 billion euros. Why are we doing that? – Because we urgently need to encourage more environmentally friendly behaviour. This will be uncomfortable in the long run, but absolutely necessary. Especially last summer has shown that when weather extremes have dominated almost the whole world, but also in the heart of Europe. These are increasing, they are threatening existences and have unfortunately also demanded human lives in Europe. What do the fight against climate change and the corona pandemic have in common? . We can only fight these two crises together by making each individual’s contribution. Policy can only set the right framework, pass laws and make structural reforms, but every individual must take part. This is evident both in the fight against the corona virus and in the fight against climate change. We provide a major incentive for mobility and transport. Sustainable mobility goes hand in hand with good research, with new technologies, especially in the field of hydrogen, and also with the expansion and use of public transport, a lot of work is waiting for us. The changeover will be thanks not only to the rising spray prices more attractive, but also to the climate ticket that is now available. I welcome this very, very many of the public, to which I should also like to thank God. Because not everyone has a subway right in front of the door, there is also a climate bonus as a discharge measure. I would like to repeat once again to my colleague Mr: Yes, this climate bonus is based on the postal code. There are enough people in Austria who do not have a postal code starting with 1 and right in front of the door, who have a good connection to the workplace, to the educational establishment or also to the leisure facilities, and therefore we must think in particular of the expansion of public transport in rural areas. This bonus is financed by the new CO2 prize. Yes, we give CO2 emissions a price – and I am 100 percent behind it – because this is urgently necessary, because taxes are control measures and thus we are heading towards a more sustainable future with shorter transport routes. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens]] In total, this means discharge for the environment, but also for taxpayers. This is how eco-social tax reform works. I would like to thank all of you for the most constructive contributions in the last three days of this budget debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e54598	Mrs Reiter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The word stands with her. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e54619	Mr President. Mr Brunner, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate viewers! I would like to comment on UG 34. This concerns research, technology development and innovation. An important goal is the development of modern, powerful and secure technologies to meet the major challenges of society. That means, for example, climate change, but also issues such as resource scarcity. It is about the mobility of people, goods and information, about safe energy supply and about innovative production systems. For us as a People's Party, ecological, social and economic sustainability has a very high priority. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] If you look more closely at the UG 34, you can see, for example, that 100 million euros have been made available for climate-related research since 2020. So one sees, on the government side, there are many levels. Even if you look at the eco-social tax reform, you can see: The Federal Government is doing something against climate change, we are not just talking about it. Any contribution that is still so small is essential for the management of climate change. Each of us is asked to make his part, not only can we always demand, but we also need to consider how to make a specific contribution. There is an African proverb, which, I think, is well summarized. That's probably what everyone knows, but it's supposed to take a lot more people to heart: “When in many small places many small people do many small things, the face of our earth will change.”
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e54665	Mrs Saxinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e54686	“The most important thing is that you don’t stop asking.” – This is a quote from Albert Einstein. Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Research and innovation are an essential engine for the design of a good future and also essential for the management of the pandemic. Public research funding in the Federal Budget increases from 3.4 billion euros in 2021 to 3.7 billion euros in 2022. This is an increase of 8.8 percent. Austria is a country of developers and researchers, and the government is doing a lot for it. What are the strengths of our research, technology and innovation system? – On the one hand, a well established international network, a great support for existing companies and an above-average location attractiveness. One of the weaknesses is that innovative business start-ups in the field of digitalisation, the environment and climate protection are still air up. But how does it look in our population with the acceptance of science? – An EU-wide survey has shown that Austria is a country of science muffles. Austria ranks among the final lights when it comes to the acceptance of science in the population. Only in Croatia are fewer people interested in science. 53 percent of Austrians believe that it is unimportant for their own lives to know about science. Actually, you should call Bravo every day in the pandemic of science, you should give her standing ovations. I'm thinking about the development of vaccines and drugs. Instead, science-oriented experts become Heme and hatred are overshadowed and sometimes even threatened with murder, and the applause goes to some of common hobby virologists. Especially we politicians shouldn't play with science skepticism. Ladies and gentlemen! With the much quoted abdominal feeling, no virus can be defeated, and the home mind is better if it is fed with facts. You don't have to believe in a science, or she was called a community of faith. Scientific findings cannot be disproved by an opinion, they cannot be rebutted by a religion, nor can they be rebutted by a conspiracy theory. Very important: There is also no right to a false statement of fact under the cover of freedom of expression, neither legal nor ethical. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! “He who knows nothing must believe everything” and “He who creates knowledge makes science”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e54743	Mr Kühberger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e54765	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! One of the biggest increases in the budget has experienced the budget for climate, environment and energy, and that is good. We are increasing enormously, from EUR 680 million in 2021 to EUR 2.4 billion – these are words and writing plus 250 percent – and that is a good thing. Why? – Because we are focusing on a climate-neutral future in Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I am particularly pleased, however, as a farmer, that we are mainly bringing our agriculture into the boat as an important strong partner. Agriculture accounts for about 10 percent of greenhouse gas emissions in Austria. – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is very efficient, because we in agriculture are actually producing the most important, namely our food, which we need every day. We can and, of course, we want to supply energy. The Federal Government has decided to use 100% renewable energy for electricity by 2030. To achieve this goal, we need 13,000 acres of roofs. Ladies and gentlemen, only our rural family farms in Styria have 500 hectares of roofs at their disposal. That is why this support for self-sufficient farms is a very, very important step. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Another important step in this eco-social tax reform, the largest in the Second Republic, is also the Raus from the oil initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, oil and gas are the biggest climate in the living area, and 3.9 million heatings in Austria continue to supply more than 40 percent of fossil energy. We need to see that we reduce these greenhouse gases, that we get out of these fossil energies step by step. The best heat supply, ladies and gentlemen, the best source of energy for the heat supply is biomass. Biomass is sustainable, is available at any time, and while I hold my 3 minutes speaking time here, in Austria, half a hectare of forest grows, ladies and gentlemen. But the real big thing about it is that not only agriculture benefits but the whole economy. We then import nothing more, and thus – with this promotion of renewable heat systems – we create the space between Climate protection and the economy. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a good example of this eco-social tax reform. - Thank you from the Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e54822	Mr Hechenberger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e54843	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Secretary of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Especially valued, however, spectators! The budget presented makes it clear black and white that the energy transition is being introduced in Austria. Mr State Secretary, we have just been able to take a picture of it in the Hopfgarten municipality. In addition to a very interesting discussion with the hopgartners, it was also possible to visit the two small hydropower plants, which are currently being revitalized and will produce energy for 10,000 households in the future. I have to say that I have been fascinated by what power is often in the regions. We need to support this, confirm innovation, and so simply try together to launch the energy transition even faster, more efficient and even more sustainable. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Mr State Secretary, I would really like to thank you very much for your commitment, because one for us, for me as a representative of Tyrol, is clear: We must continue to do everything in the future to develop power plants together in order to make greater use of hydropower, and your support is particularly important because, from my point of view, there is no more efficient renewable energy than the hydropower that produces 365 days of energy for 24 hours, and so also if you do so properly, the risk of floods and natural hazards is accordingly reduced or reduced. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] My previous speakers have already said a lot about photovoltaics, biomass and much more, I would like to address the eco-social tax reform very briefly. This is not about city against country, country against city, but about how we implement it together. In the context of the debate on eco-social tax reform, I have had a very interesting conversation with a young couple living in the back valley, who have no connection to the railway, no bus connection. They have asked me quite honestly what they should do now, there is no public transport there. One thing is quite clear: I am a great supporter of the expansion of public transport, but we must not forget those people who do not have the opportunity to change to the bus, train or other public transport. That is why I think that the climate bonus we are implementing is an important signal that people in the country also have a chance and a right to equal opportunities for those in the city. It is therefore necessary to say that the eco-social tax reform is a success: to achieve a balance, to support all the groups of the population – where they live – together, and at the same time to take sensible and efficient measures to live more sustainablely and to make them more consistent with one-stop-to-one policies. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, a warm thanks to Mrs Minister, a warm thanks to the Secretary of State for the budget proposals put forward, and we will, of course, be very pleased with this.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e54907	Mrs Weidinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e54928	Knowledge is power, so said British philosopher Francis Bacon. Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! We all know that we are living in the crucial time to make our contribution in order to develop our world, our Austria, our Europe more sustainable, future-oriented and to shape the habitat in such a way that our children and their children can live a meaningful, beautiful and great life with joy, with imagination, with creativity. To this end, the eco-social tax reform allows for significant entry. We are thus creating the entrance to the transition from fossil time to the area in which the strengths that the Lord God and nature have given us are shared by us. If we decide EUR 2.5 billion, Mr President, then we decide because we have great confidence in people in this country – in entrepreneurs, in children, in parents, in all people – that they take this opportunity. I would also like to illustrate this by an example: In Carinthia, we have now managed for the first time to set up a ticket for all public transport to set up a price. This worked in the shoulder closure with the waistband. – Thanks for that, that’s trust in public transport, that’s good for people! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We support institutions such as the Fraunhofer Institute in Klagenfurt, where artificial intelligence is used, so that SMEs can manage new business models for themselves, so that data they already have in their inventory systems can be reversed in ways of generating value creation. It is State Secretary Magnus Brunner, who takes along many aspects and ideas during his many visits to Carinthia and lets them into these programs. Thank you, Secretary of State, for always having such an open ear for Carinthia! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] But it is also the public transport that will bring us together even more closely with the Koralmbahn in a few years. Graz, Klagenfurt and Villach will grow into a Green Valley of sustainability and give people opportunities. Therefore, it is necessary that we further increase noise protection on the inventory line, but it is equally necessary that we use public money to rely on microelectronics and hydrogen, and the attitude we need to do so is a technology neutral, a technology open. It was only this way that it was possible to develop the MRNA vaccine, which gave so many people perspective and hope. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are taking research seriously! Knowledge is power. Make use of the third trick, or go, trust science and put the first!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e54980	Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e55002	Perhaps first of all as a short replica to those who here stress the importance of increasing public transport, especially in rural areas: Yes, absolutely! I myself come from a region in which it would be desirable to expand public transport even further. It is only incomprehensible why you are still a short time ago to submit our request here. House that instead of reducing the profit tax for the largest corporations in this country, we have not agreed to invest money in public transport. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That would have been conclusive, then I would have believed that – but you can see where the priorities are. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] I would like to add a second point: We have talked a lot about our tax system, and of course it has to be reworked in the direction of environmental kindness, but also in the direction of social justice. There are billions of subsidies that continue to drive fossil emissions, which must be transformed and made more socially just, but also more environmentally friendly. I just mention one example: the shuttle fee – how can it be that it brings more to the minister in the country than the low-earner? We also need to change that. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[15:51]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e55116	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e55140	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, especially Mr State Secretary! Estimated Minister of Finance! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] You, Mr. Finanzminister, mentioned three words at the beginning of your budget speech: ‘Upturn, stability and sustainability’. – Sustainability is particularly important for the budget parts discussed here, particularly mobility, climate, environment and energy, especially because the investments made from this budget will be the longest in terms of more than €7.2 billion – for Austria, but also for Europe and for the next generations. Transport in Austria – the Secretary of State has already mentioned it – is a worrying child, 30 percent of all greenhouse gas emissions are generated in this sector, and we want to address this area in particular. There are several measures to be taken. Infrastructure is needed for the traffic changeover. With the expansion of the rail infrastructure, we set a milestone in the transport transition: The ÖBB Framework Plan includes a large expansion package, and as a regional MP, I am glad that 19.4 million euros are planned for the two-track extension of the South Railway from Werndorf to the state border in Spielfeld. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr State Secretary, I am particularly grateful for this - we visited a problem area in the Wildon area together this summer - that you have succeeded in making the planning progress in order to support the Wildon area, but also for the Wildon area. Space Ehrenhausen to create a transport unbundling. This will improve the supply of transport. It is important to take the next steps in this area to reduce barriers in the national road network, thus increasing the quality of life in the area of Ehrenhausen and Wildon. Keywords street: As has often been said, mobility involves not only public transport, but also, above all, in rural areas, car transport, because the population in rural areas depends on the car. In this area, the federal government is doing a great deal for the transition to e-mobility, until 2025 we are promoting e-mobility in total with 440 million euros. 100 000 electric cars are now registered in Austria, but in order to allow even more vehicles, it also needs the relevant charging infrastructure. We have currently fulfilled the EU's standard – an e-charge column per ten e-cars – but we need more electroloading infrastructure, so we need the immediate renewable energy programme in mobility. Mrs. Bundesminister Geessler has promised that this will come soon, and this is important, because according to forecasts, there will be millions of e-cars in Austria in the future, and we need the appropriate infrastructure in time and precautions. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying that with this budget – and especially with the regional climate bonus – we relieve people, do a lot for rural areas and set the right accents and measures to lead Austria into a climate-friendly, good future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e55210	No one is reporting on this. The discussions on this subject are thus closed. [[15:55:22]] UG 15: Financial management UG 16: Public charges UG 23: Pensions - Officials UG 44: Financial compensation UG 45: Federal assets UG 46: Financial stability UG 51: Cash account UG 58: financing, exchange-rate contracts and Text of the Federal Finance Act and other parts of Appendix I, including Appendices II to IV
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e55283	We arrive at UG 15: Financial management, to the UG 16: Public charges, to UG 23: Pensions - Officials, to UG 44: Financial compensation for UG 45: Federal Republic of Germany, UG 46: Financial stability, UG 51: Cash account, to UG 58: Financing, exchange of currencies and the text of the Federal Finance Act and the remaining parts of Appendix I, including Appendices II to IV. A joint debate is taking place on this matter. I would like to welcome Mr Blümel. The first speaker is Mr Krainer, I can give him the floor. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e55316	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Now we have to discuss the last budget chapter, Finance Minister Blümel is already sitting here, and what we can see is: Since he's been on the government bank, the taxes in Austria are higher than before! The taxes under Faymann/Mitterlehner and under Kern/Mitterlehner were lower – since Mr. Blümel is in the government, they are higher. I know the ÖVP delegates shake the head: Look Please check the figures of the government – you have them in the budget tile – and you will see the tax and tax rate with which the amount of taxes is measured, and it has been higher than before, since Mr Blümel was sitting on the government bank. It will also be higher than before this year, also next year and also in the next three years. What do we learn from it? – We learn from the fact that, when the EIA speaks of tax reduction, taxes and taxes in this country are actually increased – but not for everyone! In fact, you can also read in the budget documents, Mr Haubner, that the taxes for the companies remain de facto, but the wage and income tax will rise between 23 percent and 29 percent over the next five years. Nominell 23 percent to 29 percent – while Group tax remains more or less the same, up by a maximum of 4 percent. There you can see: They ensure that taxes on work rise, that those who go to work pay more than in the past, and that capital and assets pay less taxes in that country. These are the essential points of your policy and of this budget, and that is why I should like to make a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be social and fair – what you have here in the budget is neither social nor just! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Blümel, I have another question to you, namely: What to do You're still on the government bank, aren't you? [[Call the ÖVP: Please!]] I can remind you that you personally, after the Ibiza video in the "ZIB 2" on 19th. May 2019 said that Kickl could not lead the department that would lead the investigations around the Ibiza video. That's what you've got on the 19th. May, you have said personally: Kickl cannot remain a minister in that place where he is determined against his party friends. – In your financial resort, the leg scrap tool has probably been illegally funded, we all know that from the chats – how can you manage the department in which these investigations take place?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] You would have to resign according to the moral standards you set up after discovering the Ibiza video itself to the others. If you set the same standards on yourself, you may not be in office anymore. Step back! Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[16:00]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e55436	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Ottenschlager is speaking on behalf of the PPE Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e55460	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Mr Krainer, my previous speaker, has, I believe, used half of his speaking time to point out to the Minister of Finance again with his finger – in this case. This shows us that the criticism of the budget is manageable, apparently also for the SPÖ of this budget is actually a good one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, especially in the crisis, the high importance of a stable government budget is shown. The budget, together with the eco-social tax reform for sustainability, future investment and also for strengthening the purchasing power of citizens. Significant investments in our education system, in climate protection, in security, in social compensation, in the economic location or also in research and development are only a few important areas for the good future of our country, which are shown in this budget. The eco-social tax reform will accompany the people and companies in the process of transformation into a climate-friendly future, for a life-friendly Austria. In addition to the path to reward resource-efficient behaviour, citizens and entrepreneurs are relieved, as taxes are significantly reduced. And I should also like to make the point, Mr Krainer of the SPÖ, that you do not say in all the figures and rates here, are essentially two things: One is the family bonus, for example, because never in the course of the history of the Second Republic have so many financial resources been made available to the families. This is a sound social policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What On the other hand, you also do not say: You rule in Vienna, and there you increase the fees. There you should ask yourself whether this is socially correct, what you are doing in Vienna. This question mark should be treated. In summary, ladies and gentlemen: The very solid budgetary policy of recent years, including by our Minister for Finance Gernot Blümel, will also enable us to ensure further support, economic assistance and therefore also to ensure job security and to respond accordingly to this situation if it is necessary in this crisis. In the interests of the population and the country, it is important to deal with tax money with care and responsibility and to create the best possible framework conditions for a competitive location. We thank the taxpayers in this respect in particular, because their performance makes all these good, positive developments and investments possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e55518	Mr Fuchs is now speaking. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e55539	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! High house! Since there are always uncertainties here in the House, especially in the first Klubobmann representative of the ÖVP, who is unfortunately not here, which eco-labelling measures are provided for by the Federal Government in the context of the eco-social tax reform, I would like to highlight them critically in the overall view. The first part of the eco-social tax reform was adopted in 2020 and included the following tax eco-measures: the redeployment of the ticket tax and the ecologicalisation of the standard consumption tax. In view of the fact that we have powdered hundreds of millions of euros into the AUA due to corona, the redesign of the flight tax was not really beneficial. The greening of the standard consumption levy with a massive increase in NOVA by EUR 510 million by 2025 was already the first taste of future eco-punity taxes. This nova increase concerns in particular motor vehicles which are bought by small and medium-sized enterprises, but also by families. These small businesses and families were and are the first victims of this eco-social tax reform. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us at the heart of this budget, the second part of the eco-social tax reform, the largest mogel pack in the Second Republic! The CO2 tax newly invented for marketing reasons is nothing but a mineral oil tax increase under the cover of climate protection. At least until 2025, this turquoise-green CO2 power tax has no steering effect, which is confirmed by the experts in the budget hearing, including the expert in the Green Group. In Austria, energy prices are currently increasing dramatically and the planned CO2 tax will increase from 1. ==References====External links== The price stability mechanism, which has been reinvented by the CO2 power tax, is also a purely false maneuver; the energy price will not be reduced by a cent. The CO2 tax and the regional climate bonus are also new red tape samples in the administrative process – I have already explained this before –: a tax that the Minister of Finance has complicatedly removed and then, in the form of the regional climate bonus, is even more complicated and unfairly distributed by the Minister for the Environment. Why do two ministries have to work there, not to mention where the Minister for the Environment has no data for the management of the climate bonus at all? Why can't this be handled by the Ministry of Finance on its own, and without a claim, as in the case of family aid? The regional climate bonus is not only a bureaucracy sample, it is also unfair in terms of content. The CO2 tax not only relates to mobility but also to heating; however, the heating costs and energy supply remain completely inconceivable with the climate bonus. The example of the Ketzergasse at the Vienna city border, where the house number decides on the height of the climate bonus, is how great the regional climate bonus is. And there's a lot more of that sort of curiousness. The third part of the eco-social tax reform provides for the following eco-measures that still need to be implemented: eco-logizing and increasing the reliability of the pendulum fee, eco-logizing of the service car privilege, the abolition of diesel privilege and other measures against fuel tourism. From the point of view of the turquoise-green federal government, these are all climate-damaging subsidies that one has to abolish, so ecologize. On two of these measures, I would like to go into more detail, on the one hand, on tank tourism: If tank tourism is abolished in Austria, the Republic of Austria has massive revenue, especially in the case of mineral oil tax, but also in the case of sales tax. The Minister of Finance estimates the magnitude in a budget response from yesterday to a few hundred million euros per year. These less-incomes will probably have to be compensated again by higher or new taxes, which the Austrian taxpayer in turn has to train. Those foreigners who drink in Austria, however, do not consume the fuel in Austria but abroad. However, the emissions from tank tourism are still included in Austria. From a budgetary point of view, it is insane for the Republic of Austria to refrain from tax revenue from foreigners, only because, unjustly, emissions caused abroad are attributed to the Republic of Austria. In this respect, the Minister of Finance and also the Minister for the Environment, Environment and Consumer Protection are called upon to work to ensure that the CO2 emissions due to tank tourism are not allocated to Austria. The Austrian taxpayer will thank them. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second point I would like to draw up concerns the ecologicalisation of the privilege of service cars. The Federal Government is thus seeking to create stronger incentives for emission-free service balances, i.e. electric vehicles. Is the Minister of Finance and the Minister for the Environment aware that the issue of electric vehicles has been EUR 0 since 2016? – What incentives do you want? You're still doing it? Less than not paying taxes is not possible, and I do not think that there are negative taxes in mind. So maybe you're thinking about your demand, which has been a law since 2016. Whenever the turquoise-green federal government ecologizes a little, it becomes expensive for the Austrians. We have already seen this when it comes to the standard consumption levy, whose ecologisation will cost taxpayers EUR 510 million. But we will also see this when it comes to ecologizing, i.e. the abolition of the penalty. The first clubman's representative has always said: Nothing is touched at the pendler's fee. I also heard from Mr Hammer today: The pendulum deposit is not affected. However, it is still in the government programme. We haven't heard anything from the green side until now. I would therefore expect the green speakers to make their views known on this point at last and to clarify how they stand for the ecologisation of the Pendler Pauschale. Mrs Tomaselli, I think you have spoken, and you can make this clear. [[Interlocutory calls from Tomaselli and Lercher.]] This tax reform is neither eco nor social. It is an eco-social tax reform financed by the Austrians themselves through the cold progression. These eco-social tax measures will still cost Austrians a lot of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e55627	I call Mr Tomaselli. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e55655	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Mr Fuchs, I can answer it briefly and painlessly. As always, it applies: Ecology good, nationalization bad. [[Congratulation with the greens and bravoruf des Abg. Koza.]] In the last few days, we have talked to a great deal about budget expenditure during the budget debate in this House. However, at the UG 16: Public charges, also on the revenue side. Last year – maybe can You remember – we have at a very similar time, between the first and second readings of the Federal Finance Act, corrected the tax revenue still downwards. Today it turns out that this assessment was wrong, because in fact – you get it sent every month – the budget implementation report shows a clear picture: The tax revenue is slumping and the economy is prosperizing. Of course, a part of it is the economic aid that has been paid out. Several studies have now confirmed that these have shown very, very positive effects. The most important aid, which is certainly the most effective and, in our opinion, the most effective, is certainly short work. The AMS estimates that this could save 1.2 million jobs. This means that 1.2 million people and their families could be helped. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Baumgartner.]] However, when we talk about economic aid, we also need to reflect on the fact that not every aid instrument was equally efficient if we consider the relationship between the use of resources and the benefits through job security or even investment. With the knowledge of today, one must probably also admit that there has never been a general economic downturn. In fact, there are significant differences within the companies, which is due to the impact of the Covid pandemic. Against this background, it is also worth mentioning that corporate taxes represent a significant share of the sprinkling tax revenue mentioned at the outset. If one compares the tax revenue from January to September from the last year of the crisis 2019 with the revenue from this year, from 2021, then a very clear picture shows: Indeed, corporate taxes are all significantly higher. This concerns turnover tax, corporate tax and the Kest. Apart from the income tax charged, i.e. the tax of small businesses, which is 10 percent below the level of the previous year, all taxes are clearly above that. In particular, this applies to the Kest, which is 32 percent, i.e. one third, even above the level of 2019. We asked the Committee on Budgets, and the Federal Ministry of Finance explained that it was a post-doctoral effect of 2020. Profits not distributed in 2020 have now been distributed in 2021. But if we look at the planned tax revenue – including the 2022 proposal – we see that this trend is continuing. With the exception of the alleged income tax, corporate taxes are all above the 2019 level – and also the KESt. According to this estimate, it should be 27 percent higher than in the previous year. As already a year ago, we are debating the budget in the middle of a full-fledged corona wave, and as last year, the reputation for economic aid comes from the economy. These aids are also useful, you have to say quite clearly. What does not go on, however, is this interplay of help in the winter months and a strong dividend outlay in well-going summer months. The companies concerned are supposed to receive aid, which is not a question. But I also join the statements of the Wifo chief from this week, who in an interview It has said that economic aid must also be evaluated. There is a need for a transparent and comprehensive review. The crisis has so far been unique, and this always means that a lot is happening for the first time. There are mistakes in that too. That's all right. The important thing, however, is to draw the right lessons from it – therefore a clear plea for a comprehensive evaluation of economic aid. After that, the next steps must be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e55724	Members of the European Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e55745	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! Mr Fässmann spoke yesterday about the fate of politicians and complained about the need to say the same thing again and again. Unfortunately, I have to agree again today. I too must say the same thing that I have said in recent weeks about this budget and also about this tax reform: It's just not a future inside. Although there is a great future on top of it, nothing can be found in this budget. Why? – I say it again: There are three large areas that are simply not covered. There are no necessary structural reforms. The debt backpack, this is my second point, which is being hung around the next generation, the boy, who continues to grow, without seeing any will in this budget, to destroy it again. It is also a tax reform that is neither ecological nor sufficient to relieve people. In short, the structural reforms: Why is it so bad that they are not finally approached? You just have to explain this: Because it takes the air to breathe in the budget. This means that more and more money is spent on existing things, spending on system maintenance, and this can only change if the structural reforms – pension reform, you all know, federalism reform up to an educational reform – are pictured. What is now added is that a huge debt mountain has simply been built in this pandemic. Some have rightly been spent, but as my previous speaker, Mrs Tomaselli, has said, there has not even been an evaluation of economic aid. I have made several requests, all of which have been postponed, and that is why we simply cannot have a budget efficiently. You have the impression: Behind me the flood, let the neighbor, so the next generation, who come to take care of this mountain of debt! And this is a drama, ladies and gentlemen. We're losing the connection, because it's so brutal and so planless and really so badly managed. To do this, you only have to look at the international rankings – and it doesn't matter if you look at the economic location, no matter where you look –: We are everywhere in the middle field, in the lower middle, and the journey is going down – and that is due to this bird-strout policy that you are running here. I would also like to address the environmental tax reform. As I said, it is neither ecological nor sufficient to relieve it. Why does it not relieve enough? – One of the main reasons to be mentioned here is – and you know what is coming now, I will give you once again the opportunity to keep your election promise – the cold progression. Their abolition not only promised the Lord of the former Federal Chancellors in the election campaign, it also promised Vice Chancellor Kogler in the election campaign. That's why Let me once again give you the opportunity to keep your election promises, with the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We would have another request, Minister of Finance, perhaps you can comply with this. It's not that difficult, I think. We are actually in 2021, and we parliamentarians would have a far-reaching request. This is where – and I may have to explain this briefly – it's about the budget tile. Many people don't know this: The day before the Minister of Finance gave his budget speech, we were sent to parliamentarians. This comes from the Ministry of Finance, 12 kilos it was this year, 12 kilos and 3 400 pages. [[with hands indicating a stack at appropriate height]] Why do I know so well? - Because we get it in paper form. You could save a few trees and make it easier for us to calculate by simply sending us an e-mail and making it available to us digitally. That is why I would like to make another request: Resolution by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Karin Doppelbauer, colleagues and colleagues on ‘Digital budget documents’ The Federal Government wants to decide: "The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Finance, is invited to submit to the political groups the draft of the respective Federal Finance Act, including investments, the draft Federal Financial Framework Act and the Budget and so on. Report on the eve of the budget speech of the Minister of Finance in the National Council in a digital form.” Last, not least, I come to a third point, also a very great desire and a great concern from us NEOS: This is about the Climatebudgeting. There was a joint request in the Environment Committee before the summer, spring, on the question of calculating all actions, everything that is so to speak, with regard to the impact on the climate. This is a very, very important, very strategic issue, it should be a very strategic issue for the Greens in particular, because it is simply about: Everything you do has budgetary implications, and the Climatebudgeting would just calculate it integrally and also assign it to the respective UGs. Now one has agreed, everyone has signed that – Black has signed it, Green has signed it, we have signed it – but what happened? - Nothing. Nothing happened. We as the Budgetary Spokesman have tried to bring this about. Not only me, but also the other budget speakers have actually agreed that they say: Okay, in the Environment Committee there is that, that is, we really have to put up this climate budgeting now, and in order to be able to put it up, of course, it needs resources, it needs a place where it is located. The political will, we thought, would have been there. In other words, we budget speakers have found us there, made a proposal and tried to classify it, allocated it to the budget service, and said: Okay, the budget service, which in general already cares for many concerns here, should simply be increased and equipped with additional resources. This has not happened, although it has been very, very many meetings and also very good will from all sides, but for some reason – and I am speaking to you too, Mr President – it has not been possible to make available the resources for the budget service in order to bring this climate budgeting in place. As a parliamentarian, I think this is really a pity. It's a bad chance nothing's been done. I'm, to be quite honest, angry because the Greens didn't deliver either. I would really like us all to be able to agree on a common decision in this House in the sense of the future and the calculation of the costs of climate change in our budget. It didn't work out. We're gonna stick to NEOS. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[16:26]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e55973	Both applications are sufficiently supported, properly submitted and are therefore under negotiation. The honourable Member is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e55997	Mr President. Mr Bundesfinanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are at the end of a very long budget debate. We've got 5 on the 5th. In November the budget hearing began in the Committee on Budgets, there were detailed discussions in the Committee on Budgets, since the beginning of this week discussions are taking place here in the Austrian Parliament, and this may also be a good opportunity to get a small summary of how this debate has happened. Introducingly, one may have to explain once again that budget debates have been following a certain ritual for decades: Government fractions see the budget very, very positive – Mr. Fuchs smiles, I can remember that he has seen budgets very, very positive for a while too – and opposition parties always see it very, very negative. That's been the same for decades. I say quite honestly to you, as simple as this year, as a representative of a government group, we have rarely had it, because this budget actually includes an incredibly large number of positive aspects. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] I would like, and this can be accompanied by an applause, to begin with this budget and medium-term financial planning under the heading of discharge, this budget stands for discharges. Let me remind you once again: The first level has already been reduced. It will now be followed by the reduction of the second and third levels of tariffs. There will be a very important family policy accent with the increase of the family bonus. It's also very important: The reduction in health insurance contributions, especially for lower incomes, relieves the lower incomes. It is quite clear that this budget, this medium-term financial framework creates redundancies, and it is very important and always to stress: much more relief than would have been achieved by the abolition of cold progression. I'd like to clean up a little bit with this March. That's incredibly positive, and you have to move that forward time and again. The second essential aspect, which I would like to stress once again, is the following: We are creating the introduction to the greening of the tax system. Now one may talk about heights whether 30 euros per tonne is enough or not, but at least it is a start, because of course this entry must also be made site-able and also the European framework conditions must be taken into account. It is very important, and I would like to stress this explicitly: All these revenues, which result from this CO2 award, will be returned to the population via the climate bonus in order to ensure, on the one hand, these steering effects, but also to ensure that rural regions in particular are not disadvantaged. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as by Mr Jakob Schwarz and Mr Rössler.]] This is more than the CO2 price. One aspect, if we are already talking about tax policy, is always very important to me personally, and we have also proved this through a study of the budget service: We have a tax system, which is also very much redistributed. This can now be seen positively or negatively, one will say, there is already too much being redistributed, the others say it is too little being redistributed. However, it is also clear that we are the world's peak due to this redistribution in the area of poverty reduction and are also at the world's forefront through this solidarity tax system, also measured by the Gini coefficient. That should be mentioned again and again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In difficult times, it is necessary that we have financial stability in our Republic. I am very convinced that the 2022 budget will ensure this financial stability in our Republic, and may therefore seek your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e56069	Mr Kollross is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e56091	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Values Advisors! In the end, a budget is no more than a programme cast into numbers. In the end, it expresses what priorities you set, what is important to you and what is less important to you. Let's look at this budget, just a few points: What is important to the government groups? – For example, the donors and donors of the system are important in the form of the Köst reduction. Hundreds of millions of euros are simply being missed. For example, it is important for the government to maintain the injustice of the family bonus, namely that those who pay the wage tax come to the benefit of the family bonus, those who have low incomes that are just those who need additional support are not supported by the government in this area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Sieber:... Euro!]] It is not important to you, for example, the situation of the cities and communities in our country, and therefore the situation of the individual citizen and the individual citizen is not important to you, because each and every one of us lives in a community or a city. The quality of life of each and every individual is therefore not important to you, and the support and promotion of the regional economy is not important to you. If you look at the budget, you have to take note of one thing: For municipalities and cities, there is still no knowledge of the current financial situation – and now we are probably facing an additional lockdown again, which tightens the situation of the municipalities and cities – from the government's point of view, there is still no additional financial support that would automatically affect the quality of life of every citizen and of every citizen in that country. This also affects, as has been said, the regional economy, the small electrician, the small installer, the carpenter, the builder, the tilers and so on, for if the communities have no money to invest, then they have no money to award orders. One is the regional economy. What is not important to you either? – Childcare is not important to you as well. I know you've been telling a different story for a long time, that it wasn't. However, I would like to remind you once again because, of course, this concerns the communities and cities: 1.2 billion euros would have been invested in child care for a long time, there would not have been Sebastian Kurz, if it had not been the ego of Sebastian Kurz, which was more important that he become Federal Chancellor than that children that families, that cities and communities get the necessary support they need, so that finally a legal claim to child care is guaranteed. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Fireplaces]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] . I know, Mr President, you have no idea what legal claim means, you have already expressed that in your speech today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Don't make fun of yourself a second time, once was bad enough! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Sieber.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by re-emphasizing the motion for a resolution on 'Certaining Community finances in the crisis'. I am firmly convinced that it is only a matter of time: You also have many mayors in your ranks, you hear for yourself that this is not going to happen financially anymore. It is only a matter of time until you yourself come up with such a proposal. We could spare ourselves this round of honour by simply and simply finally deciding on our request, which we have put here many times and will always be put forward. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, it will be time for you not to keep your head in the sand! It is time for you to finally create real aid for the communities and cities, because this ultimately means a greater quality of life for every person in this country. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[16:36]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e56251	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Stark. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e56276	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to start my speech with a quote from the molecular biologist and science buster Martin Moder, who recently said in “breakfast with me” on Ö3 that he has already won all the lotteries of this earth because he was born in this country and is allowed to live in this country Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, such a statement can only be underlined. It is not worth living in this country, it is a happiness. We have a wonderful country with enormous quality of life. The tax system, ladies and gentlemen, is part of this country, and the taxpayers of the last 80 years have created it together with politics and democracy, namely this country with the secure social state, with the health system – one of the best in the world – a safe environment with thousands of jobs in a country all around fantastic. Now the tax reform 2022 is at the door, and we are in a parliamentary process that is now ending, with for and against, with different opinions, And that's a good thing. But once we hide this party-political noise, then figures and facts remain. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, also at home: This budget sets the course for the largest tax reform in Austria so far and sets in motion the eco-social tax reform with an incredible volume of 18.6 billion euros by 2025. Mr Hanger has already explained in detail that I do not need to go into it at all, but: Part of this tax reform – and that is what I say to Mr Kollross – is also the municipal finances in the context of the financial compensation. We know exactly that the municipal investment programme began to work in 2021 and until 2022. – Dear colleague, if you say that did not work: 6 258 applications with a volume of 785 million euros paid to the municipalities were submitted. This means 6 258 projects in the municipalities, which have also been implemented in favour of the regional economy. This programme is also part of the 2022 tax reform. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we live in a country of very high quality of life. However, this quality of life is at risk – not through the budget, but through the virus. It is at risk because, as representatives of the people, we are unable to take a lead because we are not able to escape this crisis. And that's far missing. It would be our task to do everything we can to end this pandemic in Austria, and that only works with the vaccination, a product of science, which has now been used billion times, like no other medicine in history. That is why, ladies and gentlemen: Please trust science! Please be vaccinated for your health and for Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e56339	Member of the European Parliament has now been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e56360	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Hanger, you have said that the budget is so fair that the budget is so good and one of the best budgets. – We do not share that, and I also tell you why: [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] If you consider – and the budget figures show this – that now the very strong years of birth go into retirement, if you know, in the public service, in the next few years very many people will go into well-deserved retirement, if you know that public service is an important pillar of our Republic, and you provide with such a budget for public service so little with new planning posts, with receptions and post-occupies, then you have to say that can't be a good budget at all – I tell you as the public service speaker of my party. They always mention eco-social: I do not see anything social, even ecological, in this budget at best, except that the spray price will increase in the near future. You know exactly what this is: If the spray price gets higher, life becomes more expensive for the individual citizen because everything becomes more expensive because today the majority of goods – whether you want it or not – are transported on the street. You also know: If the spray price goes up, the electricity price goes up and, and that is one of the most common price drivers and the inflation is totally fueled. We know this, and therefore I would not be so courageous, Mr Hanger, that you will constantly overcome this eco-social situation because the citizens will still see what they have of your eco-social tax package, which is a wave of adventure over the next few months and years. It will then be remembered exactly who can thank this, who has turned with the coalition partner on the screw and actually – but that is nothing new for you as an ÖVP – left the way that you went with us in the coalition, and so over the back door – you think now Austria is saving the climate of Europe and Europe saves the world climate – making the lives of Austrians more expensive, expensive, and that especially in a time of crisis, in which the German government will again be the pandemic – and it will not be over – and the third vaccination will call out, the short-time work and a lot of tax money that one does not have at all have to take into its hands in order to support businesses. Especially in such a time, you come and you also afford the electricity price with the spray price and thus the life of the Austrians a multiple. You're very brave. You don't get tired, always talking about a great budget, about an eco-social tax package, which is not true. I can only join what our budget speaker Hubert Fuchs said: This tax relief, which we do not see at all, is paid by the citizen with the cold progression itself. Life is getting more expensive, but merit is not going to rise so fast. At the end of the day, citizens will have less in the wallet than they had one or two years ago. This is your eco-social tax package! As I said, I don't see anything social in my best will. You will still look and the citizens and the Austrians will “thank you” that – but that is meant by goose feet, so-called – as you will be the winners and what life will cost soon. I don't think that's a good package you put on. I am quite honest with my group, very disappointed that there has been nothing better in times of crisis, in pandemic times – in Corona times – and that one says that one is doing an eco-package, which is not at all what it is. In fact, you only make a package for the Austrians. That's all it is, that's all. In this sense: Let's hope for the best! But we do not believe in this tax package. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e56421	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e56442	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Something positive must be said once: In the Committee on Budgets with the Minister for Finance, the questionable Member has received reasonable answers from the heads of section and from the Federal Minister, and this is not natural. There, I think, the Ministry of Finance has taken a positive stand from many others. This is also appreciated at this point. [[It was in favour of NEOS and ÖVP, as well as MEPs of the Greens.]] The fact that, of course, as a member of the opposition, one does not always have a joy with the answers is another story, but that is the distribution of roles. Among these often rather complex breakdowns, which we are debating at the end of this debate, is also the little observed UG 23. These are the pensions for the officials. One of the impact targets set is that the money flows in time. So we're happy if the officials get their pensions in time. So we measure the quality of work in this UG. This is not insanely ambitious, because I think if you're going to hand over to the officials the retirements too late, you're pretty quick to have a pretty bad time. When you look at how this develops, you see: In 2019, under this title, the Republic spent 7.5 billion euros and in 2025 it will be one third more, quite just 10 billion euros. And what happens if we have a one-third increase in expenditure? – Nothing because the Minister of Finance says: Yes, I am not responsible at all, because the right to serve and to retire happens somewhere else! Yes, that's also true in terms of content, the question is only: Is it also happening that it happens somewhere else? Did it happen that Kogler has public service law and the Minister of Finance pays what the other one made up? – The Court of Auditors says that it has not done well, and I am of the opinion of the Court of Auditors. That belongs once to a place pulled together. It is not so delicate, in which place, but the responsibility for the measure and for the resulting expenditure belong together in one hand. For normal pensioners – who do not therefore benefit from an official's pension – the problem arises that the replacement rates are falling. So you get less and less of your former earnings than pension paid. At the same time, private pension schemes are becoming increasingly important. We are here again on a point which concerns the matter of Mr Finanzminister: If a person makes private pension provision and, for example, uses funds or shares to do something for age, then he is taxed with the capital income tax like a stock marketer who trades x-fold every day. There is the same tax rate on it, and that is not fair and it is not wise, because the Republic must have an interest in people of old age being well cared for and not having any financial concerns. It would therefore be time to reintroduce the old speculation period so that someone who retains a longer security is not taxed like a stock exchanger, but is treated fairly. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Phone call at the NEOS.]] I therefore propose the following resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is important that the Federal Minister, as we could see from the media, taxed Kryptonassets. So if you have bitcoin and they increase in value, then the Minister of Finance wants to take care of it. That's what I'm asking myself: Why is that now? I wonder for two reasons: The one is, bitcoin is now the official currency of El Salvador. If you like the currency of Honduras or Mexico in your Having wallets and increasing in value, it's like this, but if you have the currency of El Salvador in your electronic wallet, then the Minister of Finance gets something from the increase in value. That's not logical, it's not well, it's not fair, and there's something else to think about. Now Austria is not exactly the location for everything about innovation, and we are lucky that with the company Bitpanda we actually have the market leader among these providers in our country. Do you have to screw up the tax regulations now so that they like to go away, just as Bank N26 then stopped in Germany because it has been harassed to death by the FMA in Austria? - You don't have to! As the seat of an innovative company, we do not have to design precisely the most stringent rules in which this company operates. This is also a signal to other innovative companies to consider well which country they choose as their founding location. And if you treat the modern companies in this way, in the future more and more foundations will take place at a different location than in Austria, and that cannot be the goal. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[16:51]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e56600	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Götze is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e56625	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I would like to address two important issues in this debate on the budget for the coming year. The first are the municipal finances; some of my previous speakers have already spoken about it. It is clear that the communities, how many organizations, businesses and so on, suffered under Corona, and that's why we tied two municipal packages. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have heard several times that the investment activity does not function, that the municipalities could not collect the money from the municipal package one. - That's not right! 80 percent of the funds have already been collected, and almost 2,000 municipalities have already picked up investment funds. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Therefore, with the help of this municipal investment package, the municipalities have already been able to invest more than EUR 3 billion in important local infrastructure. The municipal package two, also an important instrument, guarantees that the income shares increase. In other words, because there is a fall in income, falling tax revenue, we have said that we want to make sure that the municipalities still have a growth path, and so it has succeeded that, due to this increase in income, the municipalities have more money available this year than in 2019. One point in the course of indebtedness was that we said we also want to create a monitoring. Monitoring means we want to see to what extent the communities are investing evenly or whether there are communities that invest less or not. We have also created this instrument to see whether there are communities that do not invest enough at an early stage. It has been shown that communities invest as much as before the crisis, in terms of GDP, also in 2020. Investments are even at the third highest level within the last 20 years. That is, one really sees that the communities were able to invest well. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] One last point: There is a moderate increase in debt among the municipalities, but with a low interest rate policy, as is the case at present, it makes sense from a community point of view to invest in infrastructure, in their projects. They do, and as said, the community monitoring ensures that we have this at the radar, in view driving and acting if the communities need more support; and if so, they will also receive it. To that end, I would like to put forward a motion for a resolution on the general economic situation. Due to the current Covid developments, recent restrictions on public life are discussed or, as already decided in Upper Austria and Salzburg today, how to learn. We therefore urge that the best economic aid be continued to help companies to help people who are uncultivated in economic difficulties. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm asking for approval. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[16:55]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e56764	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e56788	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Values Advisors! At the end of this three-day debate on the budget, it is worth taking a look at how you were embarrassed to sit on the government bank to present a budget to us as Parliament. Media have been purchased, surveys have been manipulated and so countless voters have been led behind the light through inconsistible election costs. With your best-buddy Federal Chancellor out of service In short, you received millions of euros from your big donors. Through this budget, precisely these large donors get their use back several times. 1 billion euros a year, these election promises cost taxpayers, and this is a hog, valued ladies and gentlemen – money with which the care emergency could end, a real digital offensive could be launched in the field of education, which could be combated unemployment or could also be made to ensure that no one has to freeze in winter! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Now we also know what your system-related professions mean. For the ÖVP these are only those professions that serve as a supporter of the turquoise system – caregivers, cashiers, educators, health care staff, all of which do not belong to it. You have stolen 1.2 billion euros from the families in this country with your power-consistency – you have to say this in all its clarity. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Are you something besides evil?]] ,1,2 billion, with which a right to a childcare centre could be created. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Perhaps it doesn't concern you, but the families and the single parents in this country would be grateful for it and would have a better life! The approval of the population disappears massively, to the highest extent, because your incompetence is no longer to be hidden. At the latest since the present fourth corona wave wanders over our country, people notice what they have to say about you. Every day hesitation costs not only fifty million euros and existences, but also human lives. How little serious this state government is about this situation is also to be heard from the latest speech by the Minister for Economic Affairs Schramböck, who is currently in Dubai. From there, as a parliament – it is not true that it has not been here in the last few days – it lets us judge that it is now, at once, for an immediate vaccination obligation. In the last few days, there was no single word from her, but it seems that, as a Federal Minister, one has to leave the country in order to express his opinion openly – on this issue, one can say something like that. They are bubbling with 5 billion euros of overcapacity – only one third of the funds that have been needed so far. With this budget, you seal your abjectness and only one thing, namely, that people in this country are at your heart solely before elections. After that, they'll forget. It's not enough to clap on its own. Get off your high horse and finally put your chatter in numbers! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e56837	Member of the Angerer Chamber has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e56858	Mr President. High house! Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Götze has just tabled a motion for a resolution – together with colleagues Peter Haubner – which surprises me a little: Once again, the government is calling on itself to set up a safety network for Austrian businesses. This proposal states: "As a result of the worrying development of COVID, new restrictions on public and economic life are currently being discussed. In line with the design of these restrictions, it will also be necessary to continue the best economic aid in order to help people and businesses who, by means of these measures, can enter into economic difficulties in a non-indebted manner. [...] The Federal Government is invited to present, as soon as possible, appropriate support measures for Austrian businesses in order to ensure value added and jobs." Go, Peter, can't you please come out here and explain what you're asking yourselves to do now? [[in the direction of the Abg. Cannon]] What's planned now? What's up? Is the lockdown coming tomorrow, or what's going on? We do not understand this request. It is, I honestly must say, not quite clear to me that a federal government itself must ask itself to consider and present measures in order to secure jobs and businesses. Maybe you'll do it afterwards. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] And, Mrs Götze, perhaps you should have chosen a different subject from the communities and the financial compensation when it comes to the budget, because what does it say – perhaps you will know – of ÖVP Vice-President Johann Hingsamer on this budget? – “The press” is entitled: “This is an insanity.” This is “a blow to the face of the” Austrian “communities”, “Federalism is being trodden with feet”, which is a“ one-sided [...] Purchasing money” – says Johann Hingsamer, not Erwin Angerer. Johann Hingsamer has been mayor for 29 years, he has been in the municipal government for 20 years, is ÖVP member, that is, high-ranking ÖVP functionary. That is what Johann Hingsamer says about this budget in terms of financial compensation. Perhaps once again to explain what financial compensation means: Of the federal government's Community revenue, the municipalities receive about 11 percent and the countries about 20 percent. And what does the Federal Government do with the revenue from the taxes it now imposes on Austrians with the CO2 price introduced in the context of the so-called eco-social tax reform? – Then, in the year, more revenue from 1.5 to 2.4 billion euros comes in, and in the next years until 2025, we are talking about around 10 billion euros, and the federal government is going to say: We only take this money for ourselves. On the other hand, however, tax reliefs – for which we are in principle – as regards income tax or corporate tax will naturally have to be co-financed by the municipalities, because if on the one hand revenue is reduced and on the other hand revenue is lurked, but these are the result of the federal government. One remains on the track – in this case two: these are the countries and the municipalities. This is not only an additional blow for all 2 000 Austrian communities, which are naturally financially damaged by the Corona crisis and have suffered a massive loss of revenue in recent years, but it is also a blow to the entire social system and to every individual outside that is affected, because the municipalities finance the hospitals with – 50 percent, they finance pre-school education, speak to kindergartens – they are the kindergarten operators – and they finance social and care services – only in this area, it is almost 5 billion euros that the municipalities spend, and they are of course missing about 5.5 percent in revenue. It will therefore also meet each individual in this area, and this is again a step towards a completely non-social policy set up by this Federal Government. That is why I propose that the more revenue from this tax reform – and perhaps it is not yet known to many mayors in this country what this means for them – be seen as a Community federal tax, so that at least this money, which comes in in addition, is also distributed again in the course of the financial compensation through the distribution key, as it is normally planned. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[17:05]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e57023	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Maximilian Lercher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e57050	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It's already striking: In this debate, the MEPs of the ÖVP have also stressed several times that it is a matter of everyone taking a lead – and that is why they are in principle right. [[Bravoruf at the ÖVP]] But I would like to tell you how this is always meant by you: For weeks and especially in recent days, all opposition parties with wise proposals have called for a re-adjustment of this budget with real good applications, because it will need economic assistance. And now you come in the last print with some motion for a resolution and want us to go there. If you are serious about this with the cooperation, you agree with the good requests of the opposition, because they are more thoughtful! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then you can follow your words and actually live the cooperation you demand from us. In this crisis, the following has happened – and I would like to reflect on it: At the beginning, all the parties, even the liberals, were still ready to work together. The hands were stretched out, the proposals came. However, the ÖVP has at some point decided to leave this path out of political calculation in the sense of the maximisation of votes, and it has deliberately entered into polarization with the liberals – to the detriment of Austria, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's where I want to talk about what's actually political debt: Political guilt is if one promises more than one is willing to keep, and if one does less than one could actually do. [[Call the ÖVP:Kreisky!]] And if we read these days in the media and hear that the former chancellor with his friends consciously boycotted government solutions, then this is the biggest political debt, my dear ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations and bravoruf at SPÖ.]] With this empathy, you have also presented us with a budget which does not show appreciation to small and medium-sized enterprises, which contains too little for the municipalities and the cities and which leaves the workers in that country behind. They have presented a budget corresponding to our salary class and the donors, but they have forgotten the many in that country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's why I can say out of conviction: We will not agree. – You don’t need us anyway, but you will remember if you insist that you will need other political parties again in the future, because the Austrians know how you are doing. [[Bravoruf at SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I tell you quite honestly: Character is evident in the crisis, and the characterlessness of your group will be punished accordingly, ladies and gentlemen, because you do not pay attention to the real performance providers, but do something that you have been living and doing in Austria for a long time : injustice! [[Abg. Eßl: Yes, exactly!]] [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] The only constant of the last 34 years in the politics of Austria is the ÖVP, and there is no need to wonder that there is a standstill. I would like to quote someone, a band who put this to the point. Christoph and Lollo have been working on you in an election song, and in the beginning of their song they have actually met it quite precisely: “Who has ruled this country since” 34 “years”? “Who has always been in power since we were infants”? “Who likes to take away something from the poor and never hurts the rich”? Yes, it is “ÖVP!” [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to you today: Unfortunately, this pandemic is not over, but the time of your policy, it is over!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e57167	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes this whole debate. I ask whether a final word has been requested on the part of the report. - That's not the case. We are now coming to a number of votes. As agreed, I ask the political groups whether we can proceed immediately. – Thank you very much, then I will proceed like that. We shall come to the votes I shall take separately from each of the Committee's requests. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft Federal Financial Framework Act 2022 to 2025, including title and receipt in 1035 and 1035 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to the draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Third reading: The draft law was also adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall come to the vote on agenda item 4: Bundesfinanzgesetz 2022 and investments in 1034 of the supplements. Mrs Bayr, Mr Brandstötter, Mr President, have tabled an amendment here. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Members of the European Parliament and a request for a separate vote by Mr Krainer. I will therefore first vote on the parts affected by the amendment and the request for separate vote and then on the remaining parts of Appendices I to IV not yet agreed and the text of the Federal Finance Act 2022. I shall have to vote on the motions for resolutions submitted to the draft Federal Finance Act 2022, together with the amendments, following the third reading in the order of their submission. We shall be voting separately on the classification 01 of Annex I as amended by the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the division 02 of Annex I as amended by the Government template. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This too is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the breakdowns 03 to 06 of Appendix I as amended by the Government template. Who's calling for it? – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Bayr, Mr Brandstötter, Mr President, have tabled an amendment concerning subheadings 12 and 16 of Appendix I and the resulting amendments to Annexes I, I.a to I.e and III. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. I ask those members who advocate a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Members Bayr, Brandstötter, colleagues have tabled an amendment concerning Article I of the text of the Federal Finance Act 2022. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on the remaining parts of Appendices I to IV and the text of the Federal Finance Act 2022 and the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall immediately come to the third reading of the draft law. Whoever is in third reading for this, I ask him for a sign. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled to item 4 in the order in which they are put in place. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Henrike Brandstötter, colleagues, on 'bringing transparency in the budgets for information'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petra Steger, colleagues, on the extension of financial support in the field of sport. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Petra Steger, colleagues on 'no 2G regulation in the field of sport'. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Volker Reifenberger, colleagues and colleagues, on ‘rapid agreement on a collective agreement for workers of the Federal Museums and the Austrian National Library’. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hermann Brückl, colleagues on financial security for the Federal Museums, the Austrian National Library and the Federal Theatre on the suspension of the effects of the recent COVID-19 restrictions. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petra Steger, colleagues, on ‘Supporting border protection measures at the Polish, Lithuanian and Latvian EU borders’. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Martin Graf, colleagues, on the definitive termination of the planned debt reduction for Sudan. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Harald Stefan, colleagues, on ‘Inclusion of the inmates of judicial institutions into statutory health insurance’. [[Abg. Lausch: A very good request!]] Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Stephanie Krisper, colleagues, on ‘More personnel resources for the ERM’. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. [[Call the FPÖ:The ÖVP does not!]] Debates of the European Parliament Who's for it? – That is not accepted, that is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petra Bayr, colleagues on improving quality standards, fees and working conditions for court interpreters. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would like to ask for an acceptable sign. – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Christian Lausch, colleagues on ‘better budgetary and human resources of the judiciary’. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – That is the minority, therefore rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Erwin Angerer, colleagues, on the introduction of an apprenticeship premium. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Christoph Matznetter, colleagues, on the extension of the Covid-19 Hardening Fund. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for an acceptable sign. – This is the minority, rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues, on ‘1,000 euros in Austria’. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Christian Ragger, ladies and gentlemen, on the model of care model Carinthia as a model for Austria. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would like to ask for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues, on 'Development compensation and federal heating aid'. Who's for it? – This is the minority, rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Who's for it? – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Philip Kucher, colleagues on the "medical service offensive". Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mario Lindner, colleagues on 'Corona-Bonus for all heroes in the health sector'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – He did not find the majority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Reinhard Eugen Bösch, colleagues on ‘the urgent need for budgetary resources for a constitutional state of the army’. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would like to ask for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Volker Reifenberger, colleagues, on the re-introduction of the 8 months of basic military service in model 6 + 2 months. Who's for it? – This is the minority, rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Social assistance – New’. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – He did not find the majority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hannes Amesbauer, fellow Members, on 'to remove illegal border crossings of economic migrants and to reduce the cost of tourism'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Christian Ries, colleagues on ‘financial improvement of executives’. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gerald Hauser, colleagues, on the "weissel region of Austria – for the preservation of the local cultural landscape and pastures". Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hermann Brückl, colleagues, on ‘additional budget for support measures for the recovery of learning residues caused by school closures’. Who is speaking out for this desire? – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Martin Graf, colleagues, on ‘No exclusion from non-vaccinated courses at universities, colleges and educational universities’. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Helmut Brandstätter, colleagues, on the future financing of IHS and Wifo by the BMBWF. I would ask you to approve if you are. – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Edith Mühlberghuber, colleagues on the annual adjustment of all family benefits to the inflation rate. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Who's for it? – This is the minority, rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Rosa Ecker, ladies and gentlemen, on "SOS APP". I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Further motion for a resolution by Mr Rosa Ecker, colleagues, on ‘App for Family Benefits’. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues, on "financial assistance for people who have been unemployed for a long time". Who's for it? – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues, on the increase in the net rate of replacement in relation to unemployment benefit (COVID-19). Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues, on the security of fire brigade, rescue and emergency aid forces in the profession! Who's for it? – This is the minority, so he was rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Who's for it? – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Michael Bernhard, colleagues, on the introduction of more ambitious CO2 pricing at the same time as tax relief. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Michael Bernhard, colleagues on the abolition of diesel privilege. [[Abg. Listen, you're a jumper!]] Whoever speaks for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Peter Schmiedlechner, colleagues on 'binding CO2 through humus building'. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Yannick Shetty, colleagues on the final abolition or ecologicalisation of environmentally harmful subsidies. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Yannick Shetty, ladies and gentlemen, on ‘Increasing low national contribution to the UNFCCC adaptation fund’. Who's for it? – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Julia Elisabeth, Mr, ladies and gentlemen, on "Enhancement of Austrian climate finance". I call for a sign to be given to those who support this motion for a resolution. – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gerald Hauser, colleagues, on ‘No new construction of the Luegbrücke against the will of the population’. Who's for it? – This is the minority, rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Endurance brake for Austria – now!” Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Erwin Angerer, colleagues on energy poverty. Who's for it? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Julia Elisabeth, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the reduction of climate-damaging subsidies rather than the reintroduction of agricultural diesel. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? I'm asking him for a sign. – That is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues on social and distribution tax reform. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Karin Doppelbauer, colleagues and colleagues on 'Kalte Progression JETZT'. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Karin Doppelbauer, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Digital budget documents'. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Andreas Kollross, colleagues and colleagues, on 'Currency of municipal finances in the crisis'. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gerald Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, on 'KeSt exemption for longer-term claims'. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Peter Haubner, Mr Elisabeth Götze, colleagues on the safety network for Austrian businesses. Who's calling for it? I'm asking him for an acceptable sign. – This is the majority, accepted. [[209/E]] We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Erwin Angerer, colleagues on 'CO2 tax as a Community tax'. Who is in favour of this proposal? – That did not find the majority, rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[17:31:54]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00129_d8e57728	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed applications for 2012/A(E) to 2060/A(E) have been filed. I call the next meeting of the National Council at 5:33 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. The agenda was done in writing. The sitting is closed.
