ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e4656	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I can give you a very warm welcome to 135. Parliament called on the Council to adopt a common position on the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the The meeting was opened. I also warmly welcome the representatives of the media and, above all, the ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens. I also welcome Mrs Geessler. The official protocols of 133 and 134. Meeting of 9. In December 2021, there were no objections at all in the Parliamentary Directorate. Deputies Herbert Kickl, Peter Schmiedlechner, Michel Reimon, MBA, Dipl.-Ing. Karin Double Bauer and Mag. Julia Seidl. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e4705	The Federal Chancellery made the following messages on representations of members of the Federal Government: Federal Chancellor Karl Nehammer, MScwird represented by State Secretary Claudia Pakpolm, Federal Minister for the EU and Constitution Mag. Karoline Edtstadler is represented by the Federal Minister for Digitalization and Business Location Dr. Margarete Schramböck. I can announce that ORF 2 is transferring this meeting live by 1 p.m., ORF III to 7.15 p.m. Afterwards, the meeting will be transmitted in the TV library. Private TV stations also broadcast our meeting, but in different parts. [[09:08:24]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e4758	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘Atom power is not a solution for climate protection’ Mr Litschauer is the first to speak. I can give him the floor and make him aware that his speaking time is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e4786	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TVs and via live stream! ==References== In November 1978, a referendum took place in Austria on the start-up of the Zwentendorf nuclear power plant. As we all know, a close majority has ensured that Austria has not entered into the use of nuclear energy. The nuclear power station is a museum – and that is good. We Our children have not left behind tons of burned-up highly radioactive and toxic fuel rods for disposal. That was a courageous decision, we have shown courage, we can be proud of it, because in many countries it is not. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now, 60 years after the introduction into the nuclear industry, there are debates on how to house the thousands of tons of highly radioactive waste in final stocks, and still has no solution. The problems of nuclear power have been solved since the last millennium. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, nuclear power is still as dangerous and as harmful as it was at the beginning. We still have no answers to these questions. One thing is clear: This radioactive soup was incubated into the next generations in the nuclear states, and they have to run out of it – whether they want it or not. At some sites – now at a few – these nuclear miles are being dismantled. The first experiences show it all gets much more expensive and it takes much longer than you originally planned. Many employees will then already be retired – and therefore the work will not be able to complete at all – before such a location is cleaned because it will take decades. It is to be feared that the demolition of an engine will take longer than its construction. The pressure from the nuclear industry has reached an unreasonable level, especially for our children and grandchildren, who have to get around with it. At the same time, the atomic lobby with false promises has for decades hindered the expansion of renewable energies and sustainable climate protection. This is something you have to say clearly: Atomic power is not a contribution to climate protection and will never contribute to climate protection. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We cannot solve the challenges of the future with a technology from the last millennium. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that the outcome of the referendum on Zwentendorf would have been much clearer if it had already been known that a nuclear melt had already occurred in Bohunice, just 120 kilometres from Vienna. Instead of doing so, it was claimed in 1978 in the advertising film for the start-up of the Zwentendorf AKW that a nuclear power plant cannot explode. In 1986, however, the Chernobyl nuclear power plant accident showed that exactly what the nuclear physicists did not do in their advertising business. Chernobyl has led us into thinking about what we already knew in Austria: Atomic power is not safe and will not be safe – no matter how often it is claimed, no matter how it is packed. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Instead of learning from it, however, 20 years ago the renaissance of nuclear energy was proclaimed and a new generation of reactors was promised with the EPRs. They should be safer, better, cheaper. Billion funding has flown in there – and renewable energy sources have been slowed down. In Flamanville in France, the construction of the first EPR started in 2007, but in 2022 these works will still not be completed. The original completion date will then be ten years ago. Instead of 3 billion euros, construction costs will then have amounted to unimaginable 19 billion euros. This is not better, it is not cheaper, it is also slower and equally insecure. Another EPR was built in Taishan in China, which went into operation in 2019. There was an incident there in April with radioactive gases discharged from the reactor tank. The reactor was shut down in July. Now, media report from a whistleblower who speaks of a structural error in the EPR, who It has caused damage. If this is confirmed, this could not only mean the outcome for the EPR in Taishan, but above all it also raises the question: Is this design fault also present in the other EPR projects? The EDF has so far been in silence with regard to this design error. The error could also mean the end of EPR projects in France, Finland and England, without ever producing a megawatt hour of electricity. In the end, instead of the Renaissance, there may be a billion tombs and no contribution to climate protection. If we look at the nuclear states in Europe, we note that nowhere is there any concrete expansion of nuclear energy taking place. Even in France, it is already assumed that the nuclear power share will decrease from 70 to 50 percent in spite of the projects currently under review. We can see a shrink in the nuclear sector worldwide, because new nuclear projects are more expensive and too late. In 2020, 17 times as much money was invested in renewable energy as it is cheaper and faster available. The danger of nuclear power lies not only in the reactors, it is also lurking in its lobby, which wants to continue to use these old technologies with the help of Greenwashing. Yeah, there's another reason. President Macron once said that, without civil nuclear power, no military nuclear power, no civil nuclear power without military nuclear power. Many projects, such as the Small Modular Reactors, the SMR, also serve military purposes. I do not want this nuclear technology to be spread across many countries and we must once again experience the history we are experiencing in Iran. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Wöger.]] In the EU, a heated debate has been launched on whether nuclear energy should be included in the taxonomy, i.e. a sustainable form of investment. This debate is fuelled by this lobby, which has explained to us before the Chernobyl accident, that nuclear power is safe, which has explained to us that the EPRs are bringing the solution to the problem. I am glad that we have a clear position here in Austria and that we are looking to the future and not the past, because if I look at the environmental conditions under which uranium is mined, if I look at how radioactive water is diverted into the sea in France, although it has been promised in the Ospar Convention, which is no longer to do by 2020, when I see that the intermediate camps are moving and there are still no nuclear waste dumps, then I say nuclear energy is not sustainable and therefore nuclear power in taxonomy has not lost anything. [[Assembly with the Greens, with representatives of the ÖVP and the Abg. Sir.]] Dear Minister, from my side there is the full support to enforce this position towards the EU Commission. If it takes legal action, then it makes sense to put it. We must draw a conclusion, we must stop pumping money into a technology that has not reached market maturity, because there are other solutions. Photovoltaics is the cheapest way to produce electricity worldwide. The renewables are faster today, better, easier to build. The renewables make us independent, they make us resistant and they help us in the climate crisis. Yes, it takes courage to do so – we will only be able to become climate neutral if we are courageous. Ladies and gentlemen, we in Austria have already shown this courage, we have spoken against the Zwentendorf nuclear power station and we show that Energy transition also goes without nuclear power. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I also organised the demonstrations against the start-up of the Temelín nuclear power station 21 years ago. I am proud of the fact that we in Austria are working together against border nuclear power plants and also for environmental protection. We have shown that this can work peacefully and can thus jointly represent our objectives and promote climate change. Dukovany, Mochovce, Paks, Krško and many other such projects and power plants are a threat to us. So we must not let go of it and – I am convinced that we have an opinion here in the house and that we also have the support from the ministry – we must be on the verge of it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Raus from the fossils is called pure into the renewable – this will not change the atomic lobby with the attempt of greenwashing. But it is now time that this courage, which is also present in Austria, will also be demonstrated in the EU. I would like to call on the Commission to give some courage, because a taxonomy can only be imagined without nuclear power, because it is only so future-oriented. Let's rely on security and real climate protection! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e4925	Point landing! – The Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs has been informed of a preliminary opinion on the matter. I can give her the word. – Mrs Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e4946	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! The climate crisis is the great challenge of our time. That's what the devastating pictures of the last weekend – I'm sure you've followed them all – have also clearly brought them in front of us again. Destroying Tornadoes have been swept in the United States with an enormous weight over large areas – with a strength that normally does not occur even in the Tornado season. We see the climate crisis is here. In order for this state of emergency to become a permanent state and for us to succeed in the fight against the climate crisis, we must tackle it. We have to protect the climate, we have to protect our planet, we have to protect our lives on this planet in particular – and for this we need a lot of measures that merge together like jigsaw stones and end up with a big whole. Part of it is our electricity system. We need to make this climate friendly, with renewable energies – this is what we do in Austria – from wind, from sun, from biomass, from W+asser power. In Austria we will succeed until 2030. It is precisely the same challenge that is facing many European countries at the moment. This opportunity, which means climate protection, this transformation, which is currently underway, is trying to make use of the nuclear lobby in the EU. She is just trying to artificially preserve nuclear power at EU level with a massive lobbying for nuclear power under the cover of climate protection, as I mean. Also the fossil lobby is currently very active, we must not overlook that. The argument of the nuclear proponents in Europe is precisely that nuclear power is sustainable, because it can be produced with a lower carbon content. Therefore, it would help us to fight climate change, is the argument. This argument – and I am sure that we agree in large parts here in plenary – is not only easy to see, but also easy to disprove. Atomic power is not a solution in the fight against the climate crisis. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Nuclear power is too dangerous. Nuclear power is too expensive. Nuclear power is too slow to contribute. And let me just do this a little bit: Nuclear power is dangerous. I believe that many of us here in this room can certainly still remember April 1986, the first news from Chernobyl, the increased radiation values, the great uncertainty when one did not know exactly what was happening, but thought it was a bit bad; when then week by week, month by month, the magnitude of the disaster became ever more visible. I remember that our neighbors set up in the basements of Bunker at the time, the children were no longer allowed to play outside. Everything was suddenly dangerous. Disasters such as Chernobyl, but also Fukushima are clearly presenting us with the danger of nuclear power. It's well documented. Even today, this danger exists: A small earthquake, an inconsistency in the operation process, all of this can have enormous consequences. Atomic power is expensive. Member of the Litschauer has carried out it before: Nuclear power devours huge sums of money. If you look at the current nuclear power projects in the EU, that is Flamanville in France, Olkiluoto in Finland or Mochovce in Slovakia, then you can see that there is a real explosion of construction costs everywhere up to triple the estimated budget – money that we can and must invest much, much more efficiently in renewable energies. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Nuclear power is also too slow to contribute. Nuclear power plants have per se a long construction period. We see in Europe that delays in construction are on the agenda. I mentioned the Finnish nuclear power plant Olkiluoto earlier. When you look at this: It was started to build in 2005 and the nuclear power plant is still not connected to the electricity grid. We do not have this time in view of the climate crisis. Just because nuclear power is too dangerous, too expensive and too slow, we are also committed at EU level to the fact that nuclear power must not be called a sustainable investment in the EU taxonomy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why is it important now that we talk about it and that we send a strong signal from Austria as well? – In the coming days, the additional delegated act of the EU Commission will be presented to the Taxonomy Regulation, which will determine whether further economic activities contribute significantly to the environmental objective of climate protection without causing significant damage to the other environmental objectives. In this complementary delegated act, some nuclear lobbyists, nuclear friends, phosphillobbyists see a sense of hope and would like to see nuclear power or fossil natural gas still find a place to keep them artificially alive and to wash them green. But only the definition I mentioned earlier already tells us that sustainability cannot apply to nuclear power; it is always a danger to the environment. For this reason, from our point of view, there is also no legal basis for the inclusion of Atomic power in the taxonomy. This is above all a question of credibility. Taxonomy is only a good instrument if we can take it seriously, and there is a financial economy and all customers and customers, and if they don't have a greenwashing for nuclear power. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have already commissioned a comprehensive legal opinion at the renowned law firm Redeker Sellner Dahs. The opinion supports our argument that nuclear power must not be called sustainable in the sense of taxonomy. With the legal opinion in the luggage, we will not be reluctant to take legal action against the planned extended delegated act on taxonomy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We will work to ensure that nuclear power is not artificially kept alive in the EU, has no place in taxonomy. Also from the financial sector come very, very clear voices – only yesterday did Uniqa stand very clearly – because the financial economy needs clear framework and reliability, clear green categories. It does not need a greenwashing of nuclear or fossil energies, which does not help anyone, nor does it help the financial economy, instead we need fair conditions for renewable energy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the fight against nuclear power, Austria has already decided in a direction and in the right direction: in the 1970s, with a courageous decision against nuclear power across all parties, across the borders of the country. The first and last nuclear power plant in Austria, the Zwentendorf AKW, has never been put into operation. It is this message from Austria that we will continue this fight from Austria at EU level exactly the same way. We will also oppose nuclear power, if necessary with legal steps. To call nuclear power sustainable is not acceptable. This is not the case for Austria, I think, for all of us, therefore: Thank you for this strong signal today from the Austrian National Council!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e5065	Mrs Berlakovich is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. From now on, the speaking time per speaker is 5 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e5086	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! A nice morning on my part! Ten years ago, when the Fukushima nuclear power plant exploded in Japan, it was quite a shock. The people who experienced Chernobyl have remembered the images that were sent from Ukraine at the time: a nuclear power destroyed by the Super-GAU, a smoking ruin, children who played in the villages, in the cities, and who did not know that a radioactive cloud was coming upon them, and helpers who had to enter the ruins that were totally inadequately protected. How many people have perished, you don't know yet – and then 25 years later, Fukushima happens. The shock was therefore great because the same has repeated itself, and this is still happening in a Highland, in a country that is familiar with high technology, namely Japan, and not even that has the nuclear power under control. Therefore, the hope that Chernobyl and Fukushima will end nuclear power in Europe and in the world was great, so to speak, to a long slide. We have already heard, Austria has done a lot. The Austrian population has spoken against nuclear power. We tried at the time to use the favor of the hour. We have invited representatives of states to Austria, who do not rely on nuclear power in Europe to form an alliance of non-atomic states. We have called for the decommissioning of border nuclear power plants, such as Isar 1 near the Austrian border, in Bavaria. At the time, as Minister for the Environment, I called for the decommissioning. As a result, the Minister for the Environment of Bavaria, Söder, invited me from Bavarian-Austrian environmental talks. Then Angela Merkel came and announced the nuclear exodus of Germany. From today's point of view, this has been a huge political step – forward-looking. I have great respect for Angela Merkel for this achievement of taking such a step in an industrialized country – thank you for that. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] However, we have also successfully carried out stress tests at European level. For the first time, all nuclear power plants in Europe had to undergo so-called stress tests. Independent experts who enter nuclear power plants have been admitted to carry out an on-site check. There have been thick reports showing that many European nuclear power plants have insufficient safety measures. Just, the consequence is gone. The Heads of State and Government at that time did not pursue pressure and achieve what it really is all about, namely cost-truth. The costs of nuclear power – safety costs and the like – are often charged to the general public. It is a pity that these stress tests will no longer have the effect of shutting down nuclear power plants in the consequence. Today, it is the case that by increasing climate protection efforts – curiously – some want to bring nuclear power to a renaissance. They remember that in Glasgow one has agreed on great goals. The EU wants to be climate-neutral by 2050, the USA, even China, by 2060. Then countries like France or Great Britain come to say: We need more nuclear power plants to achieve our climate objectives, because the production of nuclear power seems to have no CO2 released, according to their statement, and thus contributes to climate protection. – This is a false and also a curious statement. The figures are quite worrying: China is planning more than 40 new nuclear power plants, Russia 24, India 14, the USA three and also France and Great Britain are planning new ones. The issue of the EU Taxonomy Regulation is now being added. What's this about? . The European Commission says - I can quote - that a package of measures is to be decided which will enable investors to convert their investments into more sustainable technologies and businesses and thus contribute significantly to Europe's climate neutrality by 2050. The aim is to promote investment in sustainable economic activities, in those economic activities that are to contribute most to the achievement of the EU's environmental objectives. The aim is to improve the quality of life and human health. If one reads these statements by the European Commission, it seems to me to be curious, because nuclear power does not meet exactly what is required in them. However, it is planned that nuclear power should be included in sustainable investments, which is completely absurd. My previous speaker and previous speaker have already mentioned it: We are strictly opposed, for example, if agriculture – agricultural support and investment – does not enter the taxonomy regulation or if the forestry sector is not to enter. We have been operating in Austria for centuries Night forestry, and such investments should not come into being. No one understands. That is why we are saying: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Mrs. Federal Minister, it is good that you are resisting that. We support you in this. We say No to nuclear power and yes to renewable energies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e5149	Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e5171	Mr President. Dear High House! The theme of today's current hour is nuclear energy, for very good reason, because it threatens a historic failure in European climate policy. Today, when we talk about the EU taxonomy, we have to say that it sounds somewhat technical, but it means that now – this year – we decide which form of energy is considered to be environmentally friendly in the future and is also financially promoted and supported. If the rowing fails to rip around by the end of the year, then nuclear energy will be promoted by EU funds, that is, in the broadest sense also with Austrian tax money. We stay only a few days, literally, and I think it's out of question: That must be prevented! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] History has already led us several times in view of what is at stake in nuclear energy. An accident is sufficient so that millions of people are threatened and entire areas become uninhabitable to us for centuries. Even without super-GAU, too much is at stake, namely with the nuclear waste that is constantly generated and which actually presents us with an insoluble problem, not just us, but generations and generations after us. It is continuously produced radioactive waste, where no one can actually tell exactly what to do with it. Nuclear energy is certainly not sustainable, it is dangerous and expensive. She's not getting any more retirement. As far as cost efficiency is concerned, other technologies have already overtaken nuclear energy, and, ladies and gentlemen, that's why the nuclear lobby is so loud now. If we as the EU are going into such a situation and say we want to support nuclear energy financially, then it is as if we were going against the wall with full caracho. I call on the Federal Government to draw all the registers, to put their whole weight in the scales. With 20 out of 27 votes of the nation states, we could create another turnaround – we hope he succeeds. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You need it, Mrs. Environment Minister. You have already found clear words today – that's good. But it probably also needed a strong chancellor with many European alliance partners. It is likely, however, that we must be rather happy when everyone has kept the overview and even remember who is currently in operation in Austria – as often as we actually change the chancellor. [[irradiated]] But it is clear: You have to pull all the registers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A point is still important to me: It's not only about atomic current, it's also about fossil gas – the next misappropriation. We need to get out of fossil energy, and We cannot support them financially, and that must also be clear. What is promoted is renewable energy, which is hydropower, wind power, solar power – these are always at our disposal – that would be sustainable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I know, here in the House, here in this hall, we agree that nuclear energy is not an option. It is important that we also have a request from all five parties on the agenda. But two points: First: Pull the emergency brake at EU level, and secondly, I would like to remind everyone here in the House that we have a long to-do list too. We in Austria, too, cannot guarantee that 100 percent of the nuclear current does not flow from our sockets. We also need a 100% supply of renewable energies, because only that will free us from the dependence on the atomic lobby or also the fossilobby in the long term. That must be the way – one with many laws. The EAG, the Renewable Extension Act, is still in the opening holes, and the Energy Efficiency Act has run out of replacement. The list is long. I hope this is a start. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e5256	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e5277	A wonderful morning! Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This current hour from the Greens is, in principle, welcome. In this House, we all have a uniform opinion on nuclear power, namely that we are acting against nuclear power, against nuclear power plants. We have dozen nuclear power plants in our neighbourhood, which are also in the middle of development plans. As an example, I only take the Krško nuclear power plant, which is 70 kilometres from the border with Austria and for which there are expansion plans. This requires a close-up at national level, but of course also at international and EU level. Just, Mrs. Federal Minister, the concern or the way you put it today is too ideological to me. In the final effect, you will present a pure ideology policy – proactively, of course – also in the knowledge that nuclear currents, nuclear power plants are included in this taxonomy to establish them as green energy. That's too little for me, Mrs. Federal Minister. Talking here, that's too little for me. They must also definitely occur at European level and at international level in such a way that the EU does not get over us either. I lack that in your arguments and also in your appearance outside. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They also mentioned the renewable energies that we are world champions in Austria. This is us, but at the same time you will come to Austria with tax packages where citizens are reduced with additional taxes and other taxes. You have to decide: If you want more energy, you must support it – that is, to promote and establish renewable energy sources – but at the same time you must not impose additional burdens on and punishment on citizens. As examples, I only mention the NoVA, the CO2 issue New and, of course, the new tax reform that you are putting into the race. At the same time, go here and evaluate – from your mouth – the road projects in Austria, the A 9 and the Lobau Tunnel are already history. As you are dealing with the citizen and, above all, with the overall system, people and citizens do not understand in any way. Your favorite theme is e-mobility. The gap between what you say on the one hand regarding renewable energies and on the other hand your plans to consume more energy will not go out. We have five million cars in Austria and 30,000 of them are E-Mobile, which is 0.6 percent of vehicles. If you only increase this to 2.3 percentage points, we already have a super GAU in Austria regarding energy supply. [[Abg. Lukas Hammer: Bullshit!]] You have to be able to explain this in total. I can't. How you conduct politics does not work in this way, that is not conclusive in this way. A major factor concerning nuclear waste storage was also mentioned in advance: As you know, we also have a waste dump in Austria. We will address this in the Committee in the next few days. On the issue of Seibersdorf, we want to know from the IAEA, which is also anchored there, what happens to this nuclear waste, which is being put to the end in Austria. This is an essential point for us, and we are also trying to achieve clarity for the citizens in this area: What do we do with it? Where will he be delivered? Who supplies nuclear waste to us at all? How do we dispose of him and what happens to him? – These are all the topics that we will bring to the Tableau in the coming weeks and months. They would have had the opportunity to position themselves accordingly in the EU's main committee. We had a clear proposal, in which we said that we were fighting this taxonomy, against this listing, according to the CO2-neutral nuclear current, is environmentally friendly. But they have spoken against it. The way you conduct politics here is not credible for me. That's a shame. What I think is good is that as a liberties, we were perhaps the creators of ideas for this current hour today, because tomorrow in plenary a corresponding request will be dealt with by us on the issue of speaking against mini-atomic power plants.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e5323	Mrs Rössler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e5344	Good morning! Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the screens, ladies and gentlemen! With regard to nuclear power, we are pleased to have a broad political consensus in Austria. It will be a little more difficult when it comes to implementing the climate crisis, because these are really profound changes, also in the sense of the United Nations' sustainability goals, the SDGs, which are about the need for a transformation of the economy, but also our production and consumption habits. The first important point: Energy transition means, on the one hand, the switch from fossils to renewable energy sources, but also means that it is much more efficient and that it is To reduce energy consumption in a massive way. We will never be able to deal with the climate crisis with the energy consumption so far. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Fortunately, there is really broad consensus and good climate packages in the last two years: Climate billions, promotions, oil boiler exchange, building renovation – that's exactly what we need to take the first important step towards renewable energy. But we need more. We also need massive reductions where we have the greatest consumption. This is the most important indicator of land consumption. As a result, 11 hectares of land consumption per day results in an incredible energy consumption, and the most important indicator is ultimately also the waste side: 42 million tonnes of land is by far the largest amount of waste in Austria. We do not only seal and install the valuable soils, but at the end of the day we have 42 million tonnes of land that we have to put back into the landscape. It is a double damage associated with a large amount of energy. 2.5 hectares is the target. 2.5 hectares of land consumption per day is high in Austria: 9 million square meters are available each year, i.e. 1 square meter per person. This is a very big change in the communities. In the future, we will need a spatial order that is much more economical, much more conscious of voidness and of broken surfaces. Community policy, the community order will have to change profoundly, because 1 square meter is not much. For this, too, the large surface recycling is in preparation under the Old Load Rehabilitation Act – a large throw that will support the communities in particular. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens, as well as Mr Berlakovich and Mr Salzmann.]] In the field of soil energy consumption and fossil energy sources, mobility is of course the top priority: There we have the most massive increases, there we have the greatest need for change. Of course, it is more than sensible and a huge lever to question mobility, especially road construction projects. In the direction of SPÖ: For reasons of soil consumption in times of climate crisis, a lobau tunnel has no place, even for reasons of ecology, and not even because of energy consumption. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Of course, the third major driver – and we have to start – is systematic overproduction and waste. We are committed to simply discard 1 million tons of food each year, most of which are still enjoyable, – a quarter of which is thrown away directly from the households. If we continue to make such a waste, we will never be able to cope with climate change. What we do at the same time, especially in the pre-Christmas season, concerns online trade: One third of online broadcasts, i.e. every third package that is sent online, go back. The European Environment Agency has calculated that 1.3 million packages of textiles are directly destroyed in Austria. We are committing a waste that is absolutely non-sustainable, non-climate. In the electrical equipment, 120 000 packages are immediately disposed of and destroyed. This is not sustainable, it is not unique, it is not a future in which you can preserve climate protection and also an intact nature. Ursula of the Leyen has brought it very nicely to the point: Only a healthy nature can resist climate change and pandemics. - Quote. We need to think about the limited ecological resources. Without biodiversity protection, we will never be able to cope with the climate crisis. That is why it is all the more important that we be more dimensional, more economical, Conscious, technically clever, but heartily and in this consensus, continue to fight the climate crisis together.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e5429	Mr Bernhard is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e5450	Mr President. Good morning, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) “Atom power is not a solution for climate protection,” it says in the current hour, and I want to presend NEOS for us that we naturally share it. However, this is not a special feature in Austria either, because all political groups have for many, many years spoken out against nuclear power at every opportunity: against nuclear power in their own country, nuclear power in neighbouring countries, especially in border regions, in every form, in politics as far as the European Union is concerned, in financing and funding – that is not new. It is also particularly true in my group that we have a very clear attitude. I am also one of the Members of the European Parliament who, together with Mr Hammer, colleagues, have worked with the Commission to ensure that nuclear power and green gas are not included in the green taxonomy. I was even in Slovakia in the mid-1990s as a student to demonstrate against Mochovce. It's really like this: As an Austrian and as an Austrian, we have this antiatomic perspective very strong in us. Nevertheless – or perhaps just so – I wonder which topic has been chosen by the Green Group today for the current hour. There is hardly a country within the European Union which has more restraint in its own Parliament when it comes to the anti-atomic position at European level. We are at a time – I read this in the early days, says the Managing Director of the Trade Association – in which every fourth trading company in Vienna is at risk due to the lockdown of inability to pay. Companies can no longer pay the bills on time, each third company plans to reduce jobs. We have a situation where inflation increases and increases due to energy prices. We have Omikron at the door and as parents do not know whether the schools are going to open up or not in January and what measures the government is planning. In West Austria, there is too little labour so that the gastronomy and the hotels can lock up at all if they are allowed to lock up. The Green Group says that the central issue we are about to discuss in the National Council at an early stage is a matter on which there is already a national shoulder closure. I really don't understand. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Amesbauer.]] Even if all the other issues that I have just mentioned were not considered as central – the question of the potential inability of companies to pay, the question of rising unemployment, the fear of people losing their jobs before Christmas, the question of the lack of labour in the West, the question of how the pandemic continues, this would have been a very good opportunity to discuss it, because there is not so much planned for discussion today. I'm coming back to climate protection: If you, Mrs Minister, want to work at European level to ensure that nuclear power and the green gas do not become part of the green taxonomy, we support NEOS. But what we do not support is the lack of action by the Green Group, including you, Mrs Minister, within this Federal Government as regards climate protection in Austria. There you would have a parliamentary majority, you could act right away, but there is far too little happening. I would like to highlight three examples in the short term, where we as NEOS believe that you have to act urgently, regardless of what you are doing at European level regarding green taxonomy. The first point is: It needs a climate protection law. I am not the only Member to say, or we are not the only group to say that we need a climate protection law. They promised us that for July 2020. One can say that there has been a pandemic in between, there have been various decisions in between, but one and a half years later there is still no climate protection law. There are still climate-damaging subsidies. By the way, the National Council has decided, with the votes of the Greens and also with the votes of the ÖVP, that you as a minister may, by July 2021, present us with a study showing where we are currently subsidising climate-damaging behaviour with tax money. We have December 2021 and we still don't have the study. The third is that we need an eco-social tax reform, one that really works, one that has a steering effect on emissions and, on the other hand, creates social compensation. These are things where there is also a broad consensus that we need them. There you have maximum design space and you don't deliver there. From our point of view, this is because we have already so clearly positioned ourselves against nuclear power and because there are so many other pressing issues, at least not the right time to discuss them exclusively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e5511	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of The word stands with her. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e5533	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! Let me tell you a short story: I grew up in Freistadt in the Mühlviertel, which is about 11 kilometres from the Czech state border. Because of the many incidents reported in the 1990s in Temelín, we have already dealt with the dangers of nuclear power very soon and with what would happen in the case of a super-GAU. There are two memories that have marked me considerably. First of all, this is the reminder that many activists, including signs, have pointed to the danger of nuclear power. Some of these signs have been very strange. At the same time, iodine tablets were discussed in the elementary school as to whether to order iodine tablets. I was eight, nine years old at the time, I didn't know what iodine tablets were used for. We were told when to take them, and that we were actually in the death zone, namely, around 60 kilometres around Temelín, and that in the worst case these iodine tablets would not use so much. I'm telling you, it does something with children, it's also done something with my school class. If the siren alarm is gone because of a fire brigade and then after 15 seconds God has stopped thanking again, we have always breathed. We've been there counting and fictitious, and we've always been scared. My second memory is a positive one, it has to do with a demonstration. As was Mr Litschauer's case, I used to be demonstrating. With many mill fourts, Austrians, but also Czech activists, we blocked the border at the time and joined forces against Temelín, not only out of concern and fear of nuclear energy, but also in faith and in the hope that it can and must go without nuclear energy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Why am I telling you that? . I would like to show you, ladies and gentlemen, that nuclear energy is also with us, that it is also close to Austria and that we should make this commitment to nuclear energy together again and again. I am also in the Anti-Atom Committee Freistadt active and I can assure you that there people do a lot every day for the information about the threat from nuclear energy. I am also very grateful for this, because it may not be quite as tangible for young people, because the great events and bad incidents have been thanks to God for some time. For me, however, not only is the lack of safety of nuclear power plants a massive problem, in which there are still many open questions, but also the final storage of nuclear waste. Ladies and gentlemen, let us see where the nuclear power plants are! Where are the places where the warehouses or intermediate warehouses are planned? - They're mostly at the state borders. The States which still have nuclear power plants do not want to believe this threat to their own citizens, they prefer to shift it to the neighbouring states. Ladies and gentlemen, in Europe there are still many people who still see nuclear energy as a future solution and also as a backup if we now switch to alternative forms of energy. I believe that it is important and right that we act decisively against this, because there are just so many unexplained things left. We in Upper Austria are currently building a pumped storage power plant in Ebensee and thus show that there are also alternative backup forms that are more correct and more important than nuclear energy. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, especially at a time when the political and social discourse is getting a little rougher and the tone inside is sometimes a little rougher – and even here next week is a bit of Christmas and Christmas peace is floating over us – I think it is right that we have chosen a theme today at the beginning of the plenary session, which unites us all. I hope that we take this together in these two plenary sessions, because it is clear to all of us that nuclear energy is not a future solution. It is not clean, not green and not safe at all, and therefore it has no place in the EU taxonomy either.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e5590	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his Please take the floor, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e5611	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I believe that the whole of Europe is concerned about how we can turn the corner in the fight against the climate crisis in order to meet our energy needs in a climate-friendly manner. There is a great need for the expansion of renewable energy sources and for the expansion of the infrastructure needed to do so. We, the SPÖ, stand to 100 percent to increase renewables and targets by 2030. We have clearly proved this by voting with the EAG in July and giving it the two-thirds majority. Here, too, one would like to emphasize stone and clear and vehemently: We stand at the No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Ladies and gentlemen, although the lobbyists in Brussels are always trying to get this over and over again, there is a very clear no of the Socialist Group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I say to colleagues from the ÖVP and their poster campaigns 2019 – you will remember everyone well – and I say the SPÖ again today very clearly and clearly: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It is very important to mention this. I think we as SPÖ have proved more than clearly with the agreement of the EAG, as already mentioned, that we are very interested in a future-oriented solution towards the expansion of renewable energy and that we also cooperate constructively, because that is the only way to achieve this huge goal by 2030. This will definitely be difficult. In terms of security of supply and network stability, of course, some difficulties are also associated with the expansion of renewable energy. It is now important to address this and find solutions, but nuclear power is certainly not part of the solution. If all other European states want to explain to me that the time of nuclear power is over, then we must also prove and show for ourselves how it is without nuclear energy, namely the Renewable Development Act and the corresponding energy system. In the context of the already mentioned expansion of renewable energies, it could be said that the EAG has been in place since the decision was taken on 8 May. It's done on July. We're on track. But far missing – since that date nothing has actually happened, zero, nada, cute, nothing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is still a lack of notification from the EU Commission, and we all, customers, companies and the industry, are just hanging in the air. Just a month ago, talks were held in the Ministry with the energy spokespersons, in which a legislative proposal related to the EU Commission's criticisms for the following days was put forward and promised – unfortunately, it only remained with these promises. But, we are already accustomed to this policy of announcement, the government has unfortunately not delivered God to this day. I can also tell you what it is about or what criticisms there are. The central part of the law, namely operating aid in the form of a market premium, is still not in force. No one can say with certainty whether there is an agreement with the EU Commission in time before the new State aid law enters into force. If the government doesn't make it, we can start from there again. But even away from this construction site, there are possibilities to already support eco-electric installations with investment promotion. But also in this respect, Greens and ÖVP seem to have been fighting around for weeks and find no agreement. The result is a complete standstill in eco electricity development and a lost year for achieving the objectives. Finally, the whole of the chaos becomes complete when you know that the resolution agency for the EAG, namely the Oemag, still has no contract and no draft contract on the table. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the problems are very, very great, there is really a lack of much, as is apparent from all these examples. We have not only one construction site in the energy sector, keyword energy efficiency, keyword heat sector, But instead of finishing them cleanly, the Federal Government is constantly tearing up new graves and leaving a complete battlefield. I think there is a very urgent need for action. It was enough time to prepare and discuss things properly. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Minister! It is now really time to get this law moving, otherwise Europe will not take us seriously if we act against nuclear power. No to atomic current on the part of the SPÖ! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e5693	Mr Deimek is speaking on behalf of the European Democratic Group. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e5714	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, especially my esteemed ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! The basis for nuclear power is here in Parliament, is clear in Austria. All parties represented in Parliament and in the Land Days are clearly opposed to nuclear power and to the peaceful use of nuclear power in Austria. I do not think that we need to discuss this and the consequences of it, we do not need to give any kind of advice or otherwise fall into actionism. What it is about and what it is all about today in this debate is what is happening at EU and international level. But there is one way to do this: Cool, strategically superior: Why does who do something? Who's doing something? What and how is it going to be? That's why it's clear. – The European Commission’s Taxonomy Regulation. Investors and investors are looking for a safe and profitable method, and that the European countries that support nuclear power are not alone, one knows at the latest, since President Biden has clearly positioned himself for nuclear power in the USA, since Bill Gates founded the Terrapower with his investment, with the reason that the renewable energy sources would be too volatile, and Johnson in the UK as expected exactly this way. Nevertheless, we need a strategy and a way to manage facilities and, above all, promotions properly. Who are the countries that have opted for nuclear power and, in this context, also for gas, for natural gas? This is France, which is former Eastern Bloc countries, Visegrádländer, and that is clearly Germany in the natural gas chapter. And these countries are not acting just since yesterday, since the summer it is clear that the European Commission is moving in this direction. Commission President of the Leyen has already said for a long time that nuclear power and gas are stable and reliable. At the latest, the countries that are against nuclear power must have become lightly heard, but they have not become. One has been positioned, but not anymore – and positioning is too little in the EU, we know that not since yesterday, but for years and decades. We have taken a strong position in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and we have asked you, Mrs Federal Minister, to file a complaint. We know – as in the case of traffic – that only complaints will respond, and will really respond. If we hear today, it needs to be handled, we don't need any guidelines, no greenwashing, we need advice, an opinion is nice and helps fix the legal position, then I say what really helps, and with this warning position I would like to remind you once again from this point of view: We a complaint must be filed against it. Everything else, words, comparisons, climate crisis and others, doesn't help us any more. On the other hand, we must complain and we must also support the countries not to take this position, per nuclear power. It helps all the countries that are currently under fixed arrest in coal to improve their energy situation with a ban on gas and nuclear power. We need to help them get out of the coal, possibly bridge gas with bridge technology for some time, and we need to help them learn to deal with volatile renewable energies. If we don't, the whole thing will fail. The basis for this is a legal basis, namely the action. Mrs. Federal Minister, submit the complaint!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e5759	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e5781	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The broad Austrian consensus against nuclear power affects people of my generation like something natural that has always existed, and it is the result of a long, broad and very intensive social debate. He is a proof that we are able to learn that we can be big enough to stop and look: Is the way we have taken yet the right one? that we can have the size to say: No, we've been running out of it, that we have the courage to re-run decisions when it's necessary. In Austria – many do not know – the construction of several nuclear power plants was planned; one in Zwentendorf was actually finished. Federal Chancellor Kreisky wanted to turn the ignition key around in principle. Most of the top politicians at the time were of the opinion that the use of nuclear power is alternatively non-existent, because of our increasing energy consumption, there are no alternatives to nuclear power. This reminds us very much of current discussions. There was then massive protest from civil society, which resulted in a referendum in 1978. We all know how she went out. Today – and we have heard this today – Austria is one of the very few countries in the world, which is very consistently fighting against nuclear power plants at all levels. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If the EU Commission is thinking about calling investments in nuclear power sustainable and greening, then the entire Austrian Federal Government is against it by all means. I would like to stress that. I am also sure that no matter who is represented in this Federal Government, this is a constant in Austria that we can be proud of, and that is a good thing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Less good is another constant in Austria, namely that the Social Democratic Party in Austria has apparently learned nothing in dealing with the ecology movement and with great reliability is on the wrong side of history. [[Abg. Easy: But go!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] The leadership of social democracy was vehement at the time – even after the referendum! – for Zwentendorf. A few years later in Hainburg, the environmentalists were wanted to hitchhike instead of negotiating with them. [[Abg. Easy: But go!]] And today: What's the SPÖ doing today? – The SPÖ City Government sends letters of threats to climate protectionists who are committed to the city highway in Vienna and threatens them with complaints in millions of heights. After weeks of refusal to talk, they will be sending on the Day of Human Rights, 10 May. December, from the office of former SPÖ judge Jarolim, a letter to 50 environmentalists. The human rights organisation Amnesty International, by the way, calls this procedure an extreme intervention in the right to express its opinion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The threat letters were sent relatively indiscriminately to 50 environmentalists, climateists, quite regardless of whether they actually occupied a construction site there or not. They simply went to representatives of organizations, who in part only spoke critically on the Internet or who just used a hashtag. They appealed to scientists who simply showed facts and spoke out publicly against the construction without even entering the protest camp. And they went – and I find that particularly objectionable – to children. Last Friday, a 13-year-old and a 14-year-old girl received an e-mail with this letter, which threatens them with a million complaints. I really wonder, dear SPÖ, what's wrong with you? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What do you think? Your comrades send out threats to children and scientists, and you don't say anything about it. You were still vehement in August, rightly opposed to intimidation and even demanded a law of your own against it. And today your comrades in Vienna send threat letters with intimidation complaints to 13-year-old children and to scientists. I find this inconceivable. It's really the last thing! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call:This is incredible]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Roll.]] I hope you now have the size to realize that you have been running out of time for it, that it is time to turn back and make new decisions, because it is just necessary. Withdraw the threats of complaint against the children and against the scientists and against the climate defenders and deal with their arguments! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e5883	Mrs Shetty is the last speaker to speak. - Here you go. The word stands with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e5904	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I think my colleague Michael Bernhard has already explained what our position is, by the way, what is the position of all the parties here, namely quite clearly, that we in Austria do not depend on nuclear power, they do not need and that is not a subject. So I didn't really trust my eyes when I read the title of this current hour. In the context of what is currently working on us, the Greens are setting up a current hour here – because it is a desire of the Greens – entitled “Atomkraft is not a solution for climate protection”. You may need to explain briefly to the audience what a current hour is: This is the opportunity of a group – always alternate – to set a subject prominently at the beginning of the agenda and discuss it. What's so annoying about this is: Nobody in Austria – no relevant – believes that nuclear power is a solution for climate protection in Austria. No party demands this, no politician and no politician demands it, and therefore I ask myself: Why do the Greens choose the topic here today to deal with it in a current hour? – The Greens are in the Federal Government. The Greens appoint the Minister for Climate Change. The Greens currently have power and influence. I believe that if you are in this position, you should rather exercise this power, exercise this influence and not polemise here with such current hours. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is an insidious debate that we are holding today. That's why you're wondering: Why do the Greens demand this current hour today? [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Lukas Hammer and Mr Schalmeiner.]] It is relatively clear that it is a pure distraction maneuver because there is far too little happening in the Federal Government. I would like to list you – and perhaps I would remind you once again – not what the opposition, the evil, destructive opposition has brought everything in its requests, but what you have agreed in the government programme and what you have not yet implemented: the Climate Protection Act – overdue for two years; the abolition of environmentally harmful subsidies – nothing happens; an energy efficiency law – not yet on the way; a promised gas package, the soil protection strategy, a reform of the environmental impact assessment, a biodiversity strategy, the hydrogen strategy, a master plan for freight transport. – All of this you have agreed to and read in the Government Convention and we do not hear anything yet; instead, we are discussing a non-theme here today! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rössler.]] You have such a long list and also what you have already done seems to be the so-called eco-social tax reform, is destroyed by the experts – yes, the expert criticism is devastating – of which all say that it is not necessarily ecological, because the entry price of 30 euros has no steering effect, i.e. an additional tax, an additional burden without any steering effect. So all that has been done so far is not enough; and the list, which still needs to be processed, is so infinitely long. That is why I do not understand why you are not doing here a current hour to what you have agreed in the government programme, what your tasks are, what your mission is to yourself, but that you are talking about nuclear power here. Nuclear power, a topic of which 99 percent of the Austrians say: We are of the opinion that we do not need this in Austria, we do not have it in Austria, and we do not need to discuss that. That is why I am wondering why you have been talking about a non-theme on this long list that you have been working on today's current hour. I would like to: work more and less greenwashing. I think that would be a good credo for the year 2022.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e5966	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. [[10:18:23]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e5987	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e6105	Before entering the agenda, Members of Parliament requested that the Constitutional Committee report on Amendment No 2124/A be sent to the Constitutional Committee for a period of 16 months. ==References== The present request will be put to the vote after the end of the negotiations. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e6127	The debate on points 4 and 5, 8 to 13, 14 to 20, 21 to 23, 24 to 27, 28 and 29, 30 to 36, 38 and 39, 41 and 42 and 43 to 45 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e6150	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. We have agreed a day block time of 9 “Vienna hours”, the speaking times are as follows: 176 minutes for the ÖVP, 122 for the SPÖ, 99 for the FPÖ, 90 for the Greens and for the NEOS 72 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time for those Members who do not belong to a club, 36 minutes each; their speaking time is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote. If you agree with the speaking times presented, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously the case. Thank you very much. We are now going into the agenda. [[10:20:04]] 1. Point Report of the Committee on Health on popular desire (773 e.g.) ‘FOR IMPF FREEDOM’ (1037 e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e6196	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I should like to welcome Mr Mückstein in our midst and to give the floor to Mr Schallmeiner. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e6224	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! We are now discussing here under this item on the agenda the popular desire for vaccination. This is a popular desire that had 259 149 supporters in Austria, whose central requirement was the inclusion of a ban on discrimination against unvaccinated persons in the constitutional rank. One has to say that other changes have also been mentioned on the body, and that people who refuse to do so should not be discriminated against. What, in my view, is there to note? – First of all, I personally think it is wrong to describe the effects of vaccination as discrimination. It is primarily a question of changing a personal risk with vaccination, which is generally lowered. At the moment, this is about the Covid vaccination: Those who have been vaccinated have a lower risk of suffering difficult have a lower risk of landing at an intensive care centre, less risk of being hospitalized. All of this, of course, has a corresponding impact on our solidarity health care. In fact, there is something to be done if a person is less burdened by health care, and that is why there are also appropriate regulations such as the current 2G regulation. Another thing you have to say: Prophylaxis or protective vaccinations are simply necessary in certain occupational areas, especially where employees and employees working with vulnerable groups or risk groups. These people, at least from my point of view, should be protected accordingly and thus also be protected for other purposes. In view of this, it would, of course, be reluctant if a general ban on discrimination were to be imposed, because that would mean that in health professions we could not prescribe any protective vaccinations for inclusion in these professions. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] But such a thing would also be reprehensible – that is, if you look at it in the nearer past – if you consider measures such as the smallpox vaccination requirement, which we had from 1948 to 1981 and at the end of which the eradication of the smallpox has occurred. This would simply not be possible with such a constitutional provision – with which we are on the real issue, because I am sure that in today's debate this will still be about the obligation of vaccination as such, which we are discussing at the moment and on which a draft of this kind is needed for general consideration. We have decided to introduce an appropriate vaccination requirement in the context of Covid. We do not do this alone, but we do it together with SPÖ and NEOS, we do it together with the federal states. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] We do not do this from jux and tolling and not easily, but we do so because the vaccination helps us to ensure that the health care system in Austria is not tipped. This is what we are doing, even though, later on, ladies and gentlemen claim exactly the opposite and will do everything possible, which simply does not hold and which is not true. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] We also know – and we have to say that – that the vaccination rate of two thirds unfortunately does not help us. This is simply too little, and in view of the numbers currently on the table, and in view of what Omikron may still give us in January, I also say quite openly and honestly to you: We need to have the vaccination. Not only do we need two vaccinations, but we also need boosting, because then the currently approved vaccine works with at least 75 percent effectiveness against severe processes even at omicron. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] – You know this, Mrs Belakovich, even if you will certainly claim the opposite again, although it is not true. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That is why I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: Get the fuck out of here! Don't go so to those who tell you all the time in fact the opposite, as the colleagues from FPÖ are likely to do again afterwards! In this sense I say: Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e6305	Mrs Lindner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e6326	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This debate is important. People's desires are important means of democracy, the debate belongs to democracy, and it belongs to the High House. The 270 000 people who signed this popular desire deserved to be discussed here, not in the back room, not about assumptions in the media, but from their elected representatives. I'd like to make something clear: None of us ever wanted to have a vaccination. I didn't want her. But if it is the last and only means against permanent lockdowns, against hundreds of dead and against the pandemic as a whole, then we need to discuss it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] People in our country have the right to express their opinion on this and to demand an honest debate. But just as in the pandemic the freedom of the individual ends exactly where the safety and health of the neighbor begin, the debate on the vaccination obligation ends where people are threatened and threatened. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That is why I would like to say clearly: There is absolutely no tolerance when the people who have brought us through this crisis – doctors, rescuers, police officers, nurses and many more – are threatened, attacked and threatened. There must be no tolerance, ladies and gentlemen. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] There is no way to look when hospitals and vaccination streets have to be protected, there is no ignorance when journalists are attacked. That must not be in Austria, and we will never see it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Yes, there are uncertainties about vaccination. Yes, there are fears. However, I am convinced that we can convince at least a large part of the people who are still insecure today with respect and with honesty, with open communication and with listening and yet with zero tolerance against witches and violence. Other countries have proposed this. But what has our Federal Government done? There was a vaccination campaign when there was no vaccine. Then we had a vaccine, but we didn't have a vaccination campaign. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Old Chancellors Kurz declared the pandemic terminated in summer. Federal Minister Fässmann was surprised for the second time when the school started again in September. In the Upper Austrian country election campaign, nothing was allowed to happen anyway, and then you still didn't do anything. The government has slept everything. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In particular, I ask colleagues from the ÖVP: Can you really suspect anyone if he doesn't trust this government anymore? Skill You look in the mirror and say: We're still in control of this pandemic!Unknown term type: "%s".? I understand when people are insecure when they're afraid if they don't know who they're supposed to believe anymore. And then the colleagues come from the FPÖ and use this uncertainty out of pure, impeccable populism. Here comes Mrs Belakovich on demonstrations and claims – quote –: “These are not the evil ones, oh no, these are quite, many vaccines that have to be treated due to a vaccine damage.” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I quote from the “ZiB 2”: ==References== November 12 779 527 Corona vaccinations were administered in Austria. 1 360 patients, which is 0.01 percent, had to go to hospital in time with vaccination. At 0.3 percent of vaccinations, 38 397 times in total, suspected vaccination effects were reported. Most of the reports concern injection site pain, headache, fatigue, joint pain or fever. Thomas Ssafenes, President of the Austrian Chamber of Doctors, said that what Mrs. Dr. Belakovich said at the demonstration “is simply wrong and misleading, I must reject it in the first place.” [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] So we have a planless government, an absolutely opportunistic ÖVP and a FPÖ that would claim everything to make a mood. [[Abg. Worm: Where do you actually stand?]] People in this country deserve something else. The people in this country deserved a policy which they take seriously, which clears up, opposes the Fakenevs decisively, and which, at last, seriously works to defeat this pandemic at last. It wouldn't be hard. We must finally make an offer to the people who are insecure, we have to listen to our experts and doctors, and, more importantly, we have to rely on conversations with family members and friends. And we finally have to create impant stimuli. This is precisely what the ÖGB and the Chamber of Commerce demand. The SPÖ therefore wants a red and white-red vaccination check: 500 euros for all who are fully immunised. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] This is cheaper than the constant lockdowns. I therefore make the following requests: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians, dear Austrians! Please go immunise so that we can finally leave this – peep – pandemic behind us! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] Together we can do this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Worm.]] [[10:31]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e6592	The two motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported, properly put in place and are therefore under negotiation. Member Smolle has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e6616	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today's popular desire for vaccination. This has been dealt with very widely in the Health Committee, including an expert hearing, and I would like to begin by thanking the initiators, the supporters and supporters of this popular desire – thanking them for using this high-quality democratic instrument of popular desire to address their concerns and to give emphasis. But I would also like to thank another group in this context, namely one very, very large group: the many, many people in our country who have so far helped us to get through this pandemic by complying with the solidarity measures and also by being vaccinated. Thank you all very much! [[We welcome the ÖVP and Mr Rössler and Mr Vogluer.]] We are currently in a really exceptional situation – in order to recognize this, a view of the intensive care stations and the hospitals is sufficient. We are one of the world's countries with the highest number of intensive beds, but I can tell you: What we are seeing there at present is that I have never had to experience medical-scientific activity in 40 years, even in the strongest years of flu. The situation is exceptional, we must act consistently. The vaccinations are available. We still know that they protect about 90 percent from severe illness, and this is very evident in Austria too, very clearly: While around the world and also in Austria last year, about 2 percent of all infected persons died, this mortality has now fallen significantly to less than 0.5 percent – a clear sign of the effect of vaccination and the comparison of the vaccination rate and deaths in the European countries confirm this. It's very important to think about it now: Protection effect, risk that is repeatedly addressed. Yeah, there's on the one hand. Page high-risk groups, and on the other hand, there are others where the risk is not that high, of which not so many die or have to go to the hospital. Here, please, from a medical point of view, I would like to point out one thing: A mature, advanced society, as we are, cannot suffice to say: Well, most of them come from it!, no, our goal must be to prevent avoidable suffering, to prevent premature death wherever possible – and to do so also contributes to vaccination. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what will bring about the immediate future? - It's hard to predict. There are positive developments, there will be more vaccines, something will be adjusted here and there, there are effective drugs in the pipeline and also in the approval – that is the positive. Anxious is the omicron variant. Thank God who has been vaccinated three times, even there is still a clearly noticeable protection. You'll see how it continues to develop. If you look at the preparations that are being made in England, it is said to be really careful. We must go into the future together and in solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen! A central point in popular desire For vaccination freedom it was that vaccination should never necessarily be carried out. If you read through the draft law on vaccination, which is currently under review, then you will find that in § 1 para. 3 forced vaccination is excluded. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Worm.]] All of us are about physical integrity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] The highest probability of physical integrity is that if you protect yourself against diseases as well as possible – and this includes vaccination. I would ask you all to give your broad support to the report by the Health Committee on this popular desire. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e6692	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e6713	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) More than 260 000 citizens have the popular desire Sign for vaccination freedom and require a constitutional ban on non-treated or non-vaccinated persons – and this, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when all the top politicians of the Federal Government have promised clearly, there will be no vaccination or vaccination. In short, Kogler, Anschober, Mückstein, all have excluded a legal obligation for a Covid-19 vaccination – and yet 260,000 citizens have this popular desire signed and expressed their concern that forced intervention in their physical integrity could result in the abolition of freedom of conscience for the decision: Let me vaccinate Covid-19 or not?, come on. We have to find out: These concerns were justified. We now stand here and have a draft law in consideration; and even if my previous speaker has tried to impoverish something, we are talking about a draft law that will provide for a vaccination obligation, a general vaccination obligation from 14 years old for all Austrian citizens and persons who are staying in Austria. And even if in the law there is some restriction in it: At the same time, there is a corresponding regulatory authority within it to the Federal Minister, who can also remove these restrictions. I think, far away from the question of how well or less well the current therapeutics against Covid-19, including the vaccines, protect, is the far more crucial question: Is such a massive intervention into the fundamental and freedom rights of our citizens justified, is it proportionate and can we ethically represent it? These questions have also been raised within the framework of the freedom of vaccination, and we have been discussing them in the Health Committee for some time now. I would also like to put these questions a little in relation to how we have answered them in the past. The example of the vaccination obligation against smallpox, the only legal vaccination requirement we had in Austria in the recent past, was brought by colleagues Schalmeiner. There you have to look at: What was the smallpox disease? – The smallpox was a truly deadly disease, where 20 to 30 percent of the infected died, and very, very many of those who survived the infection were most heavily drawn for life. Then one found that one could achieve sterile immunity by vaccination with an animal variant of this disease, and one could actually eradicate this disease. These have been really dramatic times, that was a really very bad disease, and an extremely effective vaccination has actually led to the eradication of smallpox. What, for example, does it look like with measles, a disease that many of us thank God only more from stories? We currently have a 90 percent vaccination rate in Austria. Measles, please, represent a very, very severe and highly infectious disease. Measles are much more contagious than a flu or a corona virus, also around a multiple more contagious than the new omicron variant, and have a hospitalization rate of about 60 percent. We have had a vaccine against measles for many years – tested, approved, safe. Have we made a statutory vaccination obligation to reach the necessary 95 percent vaccination rate in Austria in order to actually eradicate this evil disease, Mr. Federal Minister? – No, we did not, because that would be disproportionate, perhaps to answer this question. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] We didn't do it. I would like to give a third example: the seasonal flu, the influenza. This disease affects between 5 and 15 percent of the Austrian population each year – every year. In Austria, on average, more than 1,000 people die each year, in some years far more than 2,000 people from the influenza. We have had an approved vaccination for decades, which is even adapted every year to the current strains. We know that the protection effect is only in the order of perhaps 30, 40 percent, but still: more than 1 000, in some years 2,000, 2 500 dead. We have a statutory vaccination obligation for influenza, which is also the hospitals again every year full and responsible for overload in the health care system, Mr. Federal Minister? – No, we don’t, because it wouldn’t be proportionate and not reasonable. Now I ask you: How do you, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, and also you, Mr Federal Minister, come to the conclusion that for a vaccination that does not have a regular authorisation, which does not provide a sterile immunity, to which there are no long-term data on the safety of the application and with which you can neither inhibit the disease epidemiologically significant nor actually eradicate it that in this particular case a legal vaccination obligation is actually necessary? - I can't follow you, I don't see that compulsion. I don't see the alternative that you always praise. This Federal Government, as Mr Loacker has said so beautifully, has managed not only to sleep for one summer all the essential measures in crisis management, but already for two summers – now it is almost two years. There are so many alternative measures that could help you improve crisis management, reduce the number of hospitalizations and prevent overload of the health system. You just have to do it! We have included these proposals in you for a year and a half, they start with the collection of a proper data base, continue to treat the sick early, continue to use modern therapeutics, go on to human increases in health care, to more money into health care, to improve the protection of the risk groups. – All these are alternative measures which: They haven't exhausted at Weitem yet. And yes, I would like to say this very clearly at this point: For people for whom the current Covid-19 vaccines have a positive benefit-risk ratio – these are certainly risk patients and people over 65 – I also think it makes sense that someone can be vaccinated. That's why I'd like him to Is it compulsory or even mandatory by law to do so? – No, that is not the case with my concept of democracy, with my understanding of fundamental and freedom rights, and I do not want to have such a state or such a government as does this to its citizens as a supreme body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e6782	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e6804	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to return to what we are really discussing here, namely the content of this popular desire for immunity. If you look closer to the text of popular desire, then it will be dark night because it is about the government wanting to plant a chip for the people and you want to monitor people with this implanted chip and with the 5G mobile phone technology. This goes very clearly to the camp of conspiracy theories. This is a popular desire that you can't sign all the serious things when you're with consolation. Furthermore, the initiators claim that the Covid vaccines were ‘might have been approved without adequate tests and clinical trials’ – possibly because the initiators are smart enough to know that they have been sufficiently tested and tested. Just because these vaccines have been so strictly tested, not all vaccines have been approved, not all companies that have tried to develop a covid vaccine have been brought to the point of being used – precisely because they have been strictly tested. Such conspiracy theories are exactly the feed with which visitors are constantly fed the current demonstrations. These are also readers of various telegram groups. That's what I'm telling you: If you are afraid of so much surveillance, please delete the telegram app from your mobile phone, because it reads your payments that reads your emails, your photos, your videos! [[Congratulation with NEOS, ÖVP and Greens.]] Buy an Austrian daily instead of the telegram app! [[Abg. Worm: Which one, Gerald?]] – I don’t care which one, because there’s as much displeasure as there is in telegram in no daily newspaper.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e6846	Mr President, Mr Mückstein is speaking. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e6868	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! Last week we sent a draft law on general vaccination in review. This draft assessment is supported not only by the Greens and the ÖVP, but also by the NEOS and the Social Democrats. [[Abg. Worm: We are against it!]] Therefore, there is a broad majority in favour of this draft assessment. [[Abg. Belakovich: Could be proud of it, yes!]] Why is that necessary? – Because we need a broad majority of society for this draft. Why is it necessary in terms of content? – Because we have a vaccination that protects not only ourselves but also our fellow human beings. [[Abg. Belakovich: Oh that?! Who? How exactly?]] At the end of the day, only a high rate of vaccination protects our health system. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We are holding today at a seven-day incidence of 294. [[Abg. Worm: Less than in Portugal!]] Today we have 100 people on intensive care stations less than one week before. That is, we see that the general lockdown, which ended on Sunday, has shown its effect. This is a rough instrument, which is also the last way to ensure the health care of Austrians. But there are also good news: We vaccinate 100,000, 110,000 people every day, about 70,000, 80,000 booster shots, i.e. the third partial vaccination. This makes us in the top of Europe. We have already supplied about one third of the total population with the third partial vaccination, the booster shot, and the over 65-year-olds already have 66 percent. This is, of course, particularly important because it is those who are particularly affected by a coronary infection. Also a good news is that we have enough vaccine in Austria. There are more than 7.3 million doses of vaccine in Austria, of which over five million are MRNA vaccines. Back to the imprisonment, to the vaccination requirement: It was clear from the outset that this decision can not only be a decision of policy, but also a decision that needs to be widely discussed in society. In addition to the opposition parties SPÖ and NEOS, we also conducted numerous discussions with experts. We have consulted constitutional judges. We have invited religious and religious communities. We also invited pensioners and youth representatives. One thing has come out quite clearly from these numerous discussions that have been conducted: These were very constructive conversations. We have brought in suggestions, wishes and criticisms, and we have all shown a clear direction together: We need a general vaccination obligation in Austria to give a perspective. We need a way out of the pandemic. We will only achieve this if we can achieve a sufficiently high rate of vaccination in Austria. [[Abg. Belakovich: Like in Portugal!]] It is also obvious that a general vaccination obligation must be in line with the federal constitution. It is also clear that a general vaccination obligation is involved in fundamental rights. I would like to quote at this point Immanuel Kant, who says: “The freedom of the individual ends [...] where the freedom of the other” – in this case: the other – “begins.” – shifted to the vaccination requirement: Imprisonment begins where it is absolutely necessary to protect the health of others. This view not only represents the ÖVP and the Greens, but also the SPÖ and NEOS. It is also the view of numerous renowned constitutional judges in Austria. I would also like to point out that it is by no means the intention to punish people with the general vaccination obligation. This is reflected only in the draft law, which is now under review. We have explicitly ruled out the right of replacement, even in the event of the impunity of the fine. We have also taken into account the active repentance in the draft law, i.e. those who have been vaccinated until the end of the criminal proceedings avoid a punishment. [[Call to the FPÖ:... administrative penalty...!]] The intention of this general vaccination obligation is to raise awareness of the importance of a high rate of vaccination for us and our society – not only for our own protection; it is also about the protection of society and the need for vaccination to protect public interest, namely to ensure medical care for every person living in Austria. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Interlocutory call by Mr Deimek]] We can happily appreciate that science has responded so quickly and has provided a vaccine or vaccine that is highly effective. There is the only way out of the pandemic, a high rate of vaccination. I can understand when people are insecure when people have questions. I assure you, also as a doctor: The corona vaccination is safe. She's been tested a thousand times, we have over eight billion vaccine doses worldwide. The side effects of the corona vaccine – all approved vaccines – are similar to those in other vaccines. I also understand if someone is opposed to the concept of a general vaccination obligation. If someone had asked me in the spring if there should be a general vaccination obligation in Austria, I would have said: No, we don't need that! because I thought at the time and assumed that we will find enough people to be vaccinated, and that in Austria we can fight the pandemic, its waves, but also its virus variants with a sufficiently high vaccination rate. Yes, many people in Austria, the majority of the population, over two thirds, have already been vaccinated. However, the current levels of vaccination are not yet high enough to protect us all as a community against the virus. I therefore again discussed this issue. I went into myself, I thought, and I changed my mind. I know now that we need a general vaccination obligation. I now know that we need to take this common step towards greater security for all of us, and I also know that it is sometimes necessary to change his mind on the basis of new scientific findings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e6995	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e7016	Unfortunately, the Minister of Health has made the same mistake in his speech, which we have heard very often in recent months from the ÖVP and the FPÖ: He has spoken of something about Europe's top priority. – Mr Federal Minister, I fear that the more you repeat this, the more believe it You yourself someday that we are so good in crisis management. But this is exactly the mistake that has brought us so far, in many areas in such a dramatic situation. We know this: When asked in the series of the ÖVP: How do you judge crisis management? Then you have people like Karl Nehammer, who says: Yes, this is excellent, Sebastian Kurz has done an excellent crisis management! It is even on posters, and if on posters of the ÖVP it is in an advertising announcement that we have mastered the "pandemia", then it will be true! – So the danger is that you might believe your own fairy tales about the pandemic sometime. Unfortunately, we experience a sample example of this fairy tale hour, especially at the FPÖ. The FPÖ has always said at the beginning: Yes, we have to tell a few insults, we have to stand up harder, for populist reasons! – You can find that well or not. I personally find it tragic, in such a situation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] At some point, you got into the situation that you believed your own derision, because to the story with the worm: In fact, at the beginning you knew for yourselves that this is a reproach after the manufacturer has said that it does not work, there are poisoning phenomena. You were convinced that all of this is a shame, but if you tell the same fairy tales again and again, you sometimes believe them. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes!]] At some point, you believe what Dagmar Belakovich says – that's a good point – and at some point you also believe your own shame. Let's get to vaccination! We are in a dramatic situation, and I think it is very, very bad that we need to talk about it now. It was the policy of the FPÖ, with these fairy tales and lies that have been told there, and it was the policy of the ÖVP that has brought us so far. [[Abg. Worm:... please!]] I would just like to say once again in the round how quickly one changes one's opinion. You as a FPÖ are like a flag in the wind! It was the FPÖ, namely Dagmar Belakovich, who demanded a vaccination obligation with the children. [[Keeping a sheet of paper in height]] She said at the time: For hepatitis A, we need a mandatory vaccination in the children's vaccination program – a mandatory vaccination! ‘[...] compulsory inclusion in the child vaccination programme’. [[Abg. Belakovich: No, wrong! ...that's what it says!]] Dagmar Belakovich – I can see the signature. [[with the finger on the leaf, on which five signatures are to be seen]] This should be Norbert Hofer – Mr Hofer has a wonderful signature by the way – that can be seen; Anneliese Kitzmüller ;and look at the Kratzl there! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] Either it's Herbert's name and it's Herbert Kickl's signature, or that's because that could be a L. [[Re-introduced on the sheet]] Is that Herbert Kickl? [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] So to clarify: In any case, Dagmar Belakovich has signed this request for commitment, and perhaps one can consider: In the back, yeah, that might be called Herbert, I think, right? Maybe you can still explain that. In any case, the FPÖ has already represented a number of positions, and the worst is: It's about human life, and you're making one of the same policies as the ÖVP! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Hafenecker.]] The ÖVP has driven us into this drama with a marketing bubble, and you are now telling fairy tales, although you know very well that this is about human life. You just don't want to admit that you're driving us in with it. Unfortunately, that's indecent!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e7128	Mrs Saxinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e7150	Mr President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start with a quote from Albert Camus, which has always come to my mind in the last few days: ‘Freedom consists primarily not of privileges but of obligations.’ We are talking about popular desire for vaccination, and 259,000 people have signed it. ==References== Five experts were also invited to discuss in the Health Committee on September. The popular desire wants a freedom of vaccination and is directed against a vaccination. But, ladies and gentlemen and ladies and gentlemen, we are always talking about a vaccination duty and not a vaccination, and that is a huge difference! No one is forced to vaccination, but non-vaccination will cost something. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations by Mr Hauser and Mr Wurm.]] The introduction of vaccination duty, ladies and gentlemen, is a tough measure in a liberal society. I've never believed it's going to be that far, but it's a Ultima Ratio – we've often emphasized that – and I'm in favour of it. We didn't want this vaccination requirement, but the measure is necessary if we don't want to go from lockdown to lockdown, and we don't want it all. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] The Bioethics Commission has found something quite clever, namely: “A pandemic is not a private matter,” and in an exceptional situation like this, vaccination cannot be seen as a mere private matter. I repeat: ‘Freedom consists primarily not of privileges but of obligations.’ The word duty is a word that has completely come out of fashion, a word that we egoists and individualists do not like to use. Everyone can think what he wants, everyone can be as obstinate as he wants, but there is a limit, that is, when his own view of the world adds serious damage to other people. Vaccination is not a violation of freedom, on the contrary: It is a prerequisite for us to regain freedom. The majority of people in this country want a return to life on the basis of facts, evidence, science, medicine and constitution, and if you listen, you hear this majority. While on one day numerous people demonstrate, twice as many people can be vaccinated on that same day alone. There are not equal groups, as is often pre-glowed. It's just a small minority who screams, grumbles, and yawns. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, it's not a problem anyway if it's just so small!]] Thanks to this silent and impregnant majority – the pandemic is not a private matter. I would like to conclude with a quote from John F. Kennedy: “ Do not ask what your country can do for you, ” but “Ask what you can do for your country. ” - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e7210	Mr Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e7232	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! If I listen to my previous speaker like this, I'm wondering something when he says the vaccination is the way back into freedom. There is a fundamental right to freedom, and a fundamental right is fundamental because it is unconditional, Mr Saxinger, and you do not have to squeak or immunise it. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] A word on Mr Kucher from the SPÖ: If you make yourself here and read a request wrong the first time and then read it out on the second time, it's about a vaccination obligation, then I ask myself the question: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] You're health care spokesperson? Skill You don't read what's there? – It reads: “compulsory to the children’s vaccination programme”. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is not a mandatory vaccination, because it has no effect, but it is in the children's vaccination program. There are no mandatory vaccinations inside, but recommendations. They, as health speakers, hopefully know that a certain percentage of our children do not get any vaccinations at all, a certain percentage only a part – because some parents are critical and give only half or two thirds of the vaccinations – and some children get everything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kucher]] - Just so much for it. Finally, stop using these fakeews, which are supposed to be investigative, that I would have ever been committed to a vaccination obligation! That's simple and just wrong, and that's exactly what it says inside. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] But now to you, Minister of State: I've been listening to you very carefully. They said this vaccination is important because it not only protects one but also protects one's neighbor. – This is the first false statement. You know, this vaccination doesn't have a sterile immunity, but maybe it protects me, but the neighbor doesn't protect her again. We know that the vaccines can be infected the same way and can pass on the virus. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: That's not true!]] I think that's already gotten through to you – if not, I can only ask you: Read this, please. It goes on, however, because you said it was protecting the neighbor. Now there is a new variant, Omikron. The green health speaker, who said that the vaccination offers 75 percent protection against omikron, is particularly intelligent. It is only interesting that even in the state radio, which is actually going through as a government propaganda station, the protection effect is only a quarter. This would mean that the vaccination had 300 percent protection effect so far. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] So I think you know for yourself that this is not the case. Obviously, this vaccination does not, or so little, protect against Omikron that this federal government has now come and said: At Omikron, the vaccines are K1 again. – What does that mean? – That means, despite vaccination you are again K1, you have to go in quarantine, despite vaccination you are isolated. The mayor of Vienna has already announced the new school rules, and we all know that if this is true once in a federal state, it will not take a long time – perhaps with a certain delay – and it is common practice. He has already said that in the event of an Omikron case in class, all children are automatically in quarantine for 14 days. There is no longer any previous free-testing, there is also no automatic expiry of the quarantine, you have to test yourself out, and – now I ask you to listen carefully – there is masking duty also at home. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider this to be the next insanity step after the vaccination obligation. This is the next step in the direction of pushing into the private sector, that is to say, that the house law should be lifted. I remember that we had such a discussion here a year ago, when your predecessor, Mr. Anschober, wanted to do that before he wanted to control at home in the residential area. That's what I'm warning you. At home there is domestic law, and it must not be eliminated under any circumstances, for if that happens, what is it other than a totalitarian system? But we're going there anyway, ladies and gentlemen. Let's continue to this vaccination! We know now that the vaccination does not affect the omicron variant. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: That's not true!]] The omicron variant will be the dominant in Austria in the next few weeks. [[Abg. Stögmüller: You know where?]] [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Stögmüller: Where do you know?]] – Mr Commissioner, you also have the opportunity to read what is actually available in study material. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: What?]] You don't even think that's what you might be looking at. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: What?]] The 200 publications on this subject are published daily. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] You can pick out those that actually focus on the protection effect. Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger is getting nervous – what, what? – because after all, Pfizer has said that everyone needs a third trick and then three more. – I mean, you should actually read the independent studies once more, and not always just those of the Group, because otherwise you might think you’re actually corporate speakers here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are exactly the issues we have. The vaccination does not work, and it is obvious that the Federal Government has also recognized this. Ask the Minister! Why are you at the omicron variant K1? Why is that? If the vaccination works, you don't have to be. The lockdown for all has shown effect – why not just the lockdown for unvaccinated? Why didn't he have any effect yet? There are questions about questions, and yet here you go and now you really want to commit citizens to be vaccinated. And now I'm telling you something: They want a vaccination requirement until 2024. The approval of the vaccine has now been extended by just one year. You don't know if there's another vaccine in 2023, Mr. Minister. You don't know that today. Nevertheless, you make a vaccination obligation. So think about what you're actually doing, how empty this law is that you're doing! In addition: A vaccination obligation, which the previous speaker has also said, is an Ultima Ratio – so if there is nothing else. But you don't know if there are medications that work well until 2024, and they'll probably be there soon. There are already a lot of developments on the market. They're making a law to put people under pressure. This whole vaccination law is not about protecting anyone, because, as I have heard from colleagues Saxinger, these are a few. Well, if some of them represent the big problem, you have to ask yourself: Is that really a problem? – I would say that if it really is as few as you believe, then that is certainly no problem, ladies and gentlemen. It was also striking today: It has not been mentioned any more. In the past, you have always stood up to date, once Denmark was the great model, because that has such a high rate of vaccination, and that is why it is much better for them. - Well, we know what's going on in Denmark right now. Then it was Portugal, Portugal with the highest vaccination rate in the EU, that must be our model. – Portugal is going to the lockdown. These are all things you can no longer wipe from the table. Nevertheless, you insist on a mandatory vaccination, although you know that we are living in a society that is already so divided – that is really incredible. You yourself from the ÖVP also receive these emails from your mayors, from your vice-bourgeois masters, who write to you that this policy you are making here, this forced policy, is unbearable because it does not want the citizens to do so. They purchase that approximately 25 percent of those working in health care quit. If only half quit, you know what's going on? . You know better than everyone else, Mr Saxinger, what really is going on in the health sector. We now have capacity problems, not because we don't have beds that we could set up, or because we don't have surveillance devices, but because we don't have staff. The Italians were the pioneers, who had already introduced the vaccination requirement for the health care staff in the summer. What are the Italians doing now? – The Italians ask the unvaccinated to return and resume their work without any vaccination. Excuse me, everyone has to think about this! People don't just get under pressure like that. It is very much about physical integrity. Now one more word to you, Minister: They put themselves here and say: The vaccine damage, the vaccine side effects are the same as with all other vaccinations. – Mr Minister, please take 2 minutes and read what's going on on on the EEA page! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] It's a multiple! There are 1 000 more reports within 11 months compared to all other vaccinations combined in the last 30 years. That's what you're denying! You can't just do that! Yes, that makes many people afraid and worried, and yes, many people write to me – and I think they write to you too. The difference is just: There's a computer answer from you, where everyone gets the same thing, and we're actually reading it through. If you'd read it through once, You may actually understand the fears and concerns of the Austrians – and that is what it is about. The fact is that a popular desire is being wiped away! This is what the castles are telling us, and we have a great deal to think about. This must also be included in our political action, and we should not say: Yes, these are a few spinners, that's meaty, we're going through our program! You of the Greens originally came from a basic democratic movement, and now you are worse than the ÖVP has ever been: You're just going over it! You lose your own members, your own friends on the roadside. – These are the ones at the demonstrations, Mr Minister, you just don’t know because you refuse to talk to the citizens. I would like to make another request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, finally do something for the population in the sense of the population! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[11:12]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e7748	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. I now have a speech on Mr Philipp Kucher's actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e7775	Thank you for your comment, Mr Loacker. Madam President. Mrs Belakovich has just said that I would have put her in the mouth or distorted her statement that she had made a recommendation on the children's vaccination programme, and I would have made it a commitment. This is, of course, incorrect, and therefore I can actually correct the fact that Mrs Belakovich has called for the inclusion of “hepatitis-A-vaccination [...] mandatory” in the children’s vaccination programme. [[Abg. Belakovich: Just read the application!]] [[Read from an expression]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes!]] [[Call the FPÖ: She said that!]] So there's nothing of recommendation – there's nothing about a recommendation! – but you were quite clear of a commitment, so honest must be. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Read it before!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Read! Try reading it with me!]] What you owe me, Mrs Colleague, is what you owe me - – now we have caught you – you do not need to get nervous! – because you didn’t write recommendation. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] Clearly, the commitment came out, that is to say, thanks to God you can read everything. I just don't know if the L is back there for Kickl and if that's not Herbert. [[pointing to the expression]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Just read it before! Read it!]] Maybe you can, please, also see who actually signed this. In any case, there was no recommendation, the path of the FPÖ was mandatory – mandatory!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e7904	We will make the clarification of signatures outside of actual corrections – perhaps, but that is your responsibility, honourable Member. The next speaker was Mrs Andrea Holzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e7934	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Watchers! I would have liked to go to the barber before my first parliamentary speech in the National Council, but in Upper Austria we are still in the lockdown. He works! We all have worked out a breathing break in the race with the time before the next wave, in which hopefully a lot of people can be vaccinated. The corona pandemic has brought our health system – one of the best in the world – to the limit, so vaccination becomes a duty to ensure health care for the population. I come from the Innviertel, the district of Braunau – where the vaccination rates are unfortunately the lowest and the incidences are the highest. This shows: The vaccination works. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Nevertheless, I understand the fears, doubts and concerns. Of course, you're wondering: Are the measures not too far? What do you want me to do with this here and there? Who do you want me to trust? – Please trust In the first line of health questions, you may contact your family doctor or a doctor who knows you well, who is also aware of new scientific findings and can discuss them with you. With 8.5 billion covid vaccines administered, these are among the best-tested vaccines in the world. Please do not let a Klubobmann Kickl, who praises Ivermectin's decoupling agent, not to mention once again the unscrupulous statements made by Mrs Belakovich – and Parliamenter Hauser is also eagerly mixing with false reports. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Call at the ÖVP:Surely vaccinated!]] Mr Klubobmann Kickl – unfortunately he is not in the hall –: We Innviertler, and not just us, love freedom! We want these back, but with respect to each other and with responsibility for each other. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Mr Klubobmann Kickl, Mrs Belakovich, you crossed the bow. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I am very pleased that a liberal mayor from a neighboring community has ordered the vaccination bus into his community. It will be time to step back and listen to each other. [[Abg. Deimek: They confuse freedom with compulsion and duty!]] We need to adapt our actions on the basis of changing conditions, changing facts. In this pandemic we all live in fundamental uncertainty. We're all not used to that anymore, but wasn't that so in many eras of history? And because we're standing just before Christmas: Was it not just 2,000 years ago when the child was born in the stable? Even though this story has not done exactly that way, does it not arouse the hope of breaking up hardened fronts, of a common, constructive action for the benefit of our children? – The lives of our children are crucially influenced by how we deal with the virus and how we deal with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e8003	Mr Peter Wurm has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e8027	Madam President. Minister! High house! Fathers. This popular desire for vaccination has been launched when the Vaccination Act has not even been a subject or has all said that it does not come anyway. That is to say, the initiators and supporters once knew quite forward-lookingly that all of us could flourish. Now she's here, and now we're also discussing this popular desire. I say it again: In the meantime, there is the Austrian Unity Party, consisting of ÖVP, Greens, NEOS and Social Democrats, who obviously wants to pass through exactly this vaccination law now, but thank God for this popular desire we are discussing today, many ongoing popular desires that go in a similar direction. I am very glad that the population stands up – in demos or also in popular desires – and clearly expresses the displeasure. I've already said it a few times: I believe that, especially from the government parties ÖVP and Greens and also from the Minister, we must make ourselves and say: Okay, at that time, two years ago, we had scientific theses, and these scientific theses, unfortunately, have disintegrated God into air. All that has been announced under the title of scientific facts is now, in December 2021, in fact, no longer available – neither that I cannot infect myself as a vaccinated person nor that I cannot pass it on. The famous word full immunization is in so far – I think, all have now understood – to be removed from the use of language. We are now talking about hybrid immunization, that is, best healed and vaccinated. I say it again, because some have obviously not fully understood this: At the last meeting of the Health Committee, the Minister clearly said that against Omikron, existing vaccination protection will not work, and we will need a new trimmer with a new vaccine. [[Federal Minister Mückstein shakes his head.]] – You can say that, it is not what you should not hide, but you should say that honestly to the people. Now, however, to make a vaccination law, by almost driving people with a vaccine that is no longer effective, or forcing them into it, and then starting a new trimmer series in spring with a new vaccine for omicron – I think you should already communicate quite clearly, Mr. Minister. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz:... said!]] As I said, there is a whole, quite a lot of arguments, in addition to the fact that this starts with the age of 14, which I think is crazy, why this should not and should not come. I have created a little hope that the third chancellor this year, Karl Nehammer, may be wise enough to make a 180-degree turnaround, says quite clearly: We were also lied by the pharmaceutical industry, I am very, very sorry! And now turn around and say, [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits]] Okay, we're taking other measures, but we're not forcing the population in Austria into this vaccination law anymore! He has also stretched out his hand to reconciliation. I am now positive and optimistic that this was not an empty floscle and that Karl Nehammer, as a new chancellor, is now changing the line – especially the ÖVP – and is really going to go to people and shake this vaccination law. We have over 8 000 opinions to date, and there will be much more. This law is a fool, it violates--
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e8068	Mr President, I would ask you to be moderate in your expression.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e8083	I'm gonna take it back. It is a violation of our constitution and should be stopped if someone in the government is wise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e8115	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e8160	Madam President. Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to thank all 260 000 people who have signed the popular desire for vaccination freedom. As a Freedom Party, we do not want any compulsion, and we will really do everything we can to protect ourselves from the population. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] Minister! I quote: “The flat-rate declaration of vaccines as “safe” – as you always say – “by the medical chamber, politics and media is thus revealed as unscientific [...] propaganda.” – Again: “The flat-rate declaration of vaccines as “safe” – what you always claim – “by the medical chamber, politics and media is thus revealed as unscientific [...] propaganda.” – Do you know who says that? – That’s what 150 doctors say in an open letter to the medical chamber president, led by Univ.-Prof. Dr. Andreas Sönnichsen. I am really glad that doctors are now starting to get up – doctors who have experienced and experienced the suffering of people who are vaccinated by them. This gives hope that the vaccination obligation forced by the government and by the system parties will not actually come. Mr Minister, I would like to read a quote from this letter from the 150 doctors. I ask the people I speak to: Look at this letter! It is comprehensive and it is unlikely to explain. Just one more quote from it: “The number of adverse reactions reported in the COVID-19 vaccines can only be described as frightening”. – This is also stated in this letter. For weeks now, I have been delivering scientific facts in this House for months, and I wonder why these scientific facts are not taken up. I'll try again today. [[a table with a table entitled “Compare Europe/Africa; Covid-19 Deaths and Vaccines” on the speaker’s desk]] I have this comparison between Germany, England, the Netherlands, Austria, Nigeria, Benin, Chad and South Sudan. You know, the difference is that the virus apparently always starts in South Africa, then it's so intelligent to skip the entire African continent, and then it rages with us, in America and so on. Look at these numbers: Throughout Africa, only 6% of the population have been vaccinated, 1.9% of those under age 18 and 1.2% of those age 65 or over. Reversal – and this is underlined again and again by scientific studies, Harvard studies I have mentioned several times –: [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Scherak]] There is no link between the vaccination rate and the number of infections. Look at this! Why do you look at it? Don't you follow the African example? They always push it away. Why are you doing this? Look You're not mad at the virus in Africa! There are medicines that are located by you in the realm of non-science. Look at these facts! [[Abg. Loacker: The expert speaks again!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] Because today, previous speakers have talked about getting out of the permanent lockdown by vaccination: Yes, ladies and gentlemen, don't you look at Sweden? [[a chart with a chart entitled “Compare: Sweden – Austria; Newly Reported COVID-19 Deaths” on the speaker’s desk]] Sweden has never had a lockdown. In Sweden, the population is not invaded by a government. There is freedom in Sweden. If you look at the numbers I've picked out, you see: ==References== In December we had 54 deaths in Austria, Sweden had three, because in Sweden, although the vaccination rates are similar, there is simply another policy that does not build on force, pressure and repression. This should be just in the eyes of entrepreneurs – of those who shake their heads in the first row. [[towards Abg. Michael Hammer]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: About you...!]] That should make you think! The permanent lockdown, four lockdowns for companies – that's a mess! Look at Sweden: Sweden has never had a lockdown. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Since so many people have been quoted today, I can also end up with a quote by Stephen Hawking. He said: “The greatest enemy of knowledge is not ignorance, but the illusion of being knowing.” – Take this to heart!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e8249	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the vote on this item on the agenda at the end of the negotiations on item 2. [[11:27:53]] 2. Point Report of the Health Committee on popular desire (771 e.g.) ‘PERSONAL PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS’ (1277, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e8282	We are now going to Agenda item 2. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mrs Olga Vogluer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e8310	Madam President. Spoštovana Visoka Hiša! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear listeners at home in front of the screens! Animal welfare is one of the most successful popular desires. It was signed by 416 000 people in Austria. We have taken this popular desire very much to heart. At this point, thank all the signers, and above all the initiator Sebastian Bohren Mena. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and the Deputies Pfurtscheller and Strasser.]] All those who have signed this popular desire have the expectation of us – to politics, to the ruling political groups – that we will also follow actions. A comprehensive animal protection application has been made out of their concerns which they have signed. [[Keeping a multi-paged document in height]] It includes several pages, and believe me one: Such a request is not everyday, nor is it of course. Thank you for bringing us with this commission to work in the sense of animal welfare, in the sense of a good life for animals and humans! [[We welcome the Greens as well as the Melchior, Strasser and Wöginger Members.]] What has been the success of this proposal? – I myself was allowed to negotiate exactly this area of farm animals; at this point my great thanks also to my colleagues Georg Strasser and Franz Eßl from the Austrian People’s Party. We have been very serious over several months on a very good basis with representatives the livestock industries and consider what steps to follow. We have succeeded in finally ending the senseless chick killing in the area of poultry. There is an extensive industry solution to this issue; the poultry sector is also taking important steps for the future. In the area of cattle, we have managed to ensure that we also have legal anchorages that there will be no more mast and slaughter animal exports from Austria. We will also develop comprehensive regulations to make transport safer so that controls can be carried out even more precisely, and there will be further developments in the transport of calves. In the area of pig farming in particular, we have managed a lot. We are starting in Austria from a standard that is really inappropriate to animal welfare regarding stables. We have considered how we can achieve a better standard for the animals in the next few years. We succeeded in anchoring a new minimum standard from 2023 onwards, but it certainly was not done with it. We know that there is also a legal end to the full column, and we are still working on it. Nevertheless, this intermediate step is important because: What does that mean? – This means that in the next few years we will have a million pigs living in animal welfare farms – and that is a milestone. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What window has opened now? – A large window for the pig industry in Austria: Now is the chance to do the image change, now is the chance to work with animal protection organisations, now is the opportunity to show that agriculture and animal welfare are together a very large voice tube. If we are not afraid of animal welfare organisations, we think in the sense of the animals, because it still applies: In agriculture, empathy is needed; if it is lost, agriculture becomes business. Wherever agriculture has become a business, the animals suffer and there we suffer people. Let us see that agriculture continues to remain a circular economy, we continue to work on animal welfare! It's not the last step, but it's a milestone. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e8382	Next speaker: Mrs Cornelia Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e8406	Madam President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) At the outset, I should like to start with the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dietmar Keck, Mr Cornelia Ecker, Mr Mag. Christian Drobits, colleagues and colleagues on the introduction of measures to implement the popular animal welfare desire, which has been addressed to all of you - introduced in the course of the debate on the report by the Health Committee on People's Desire, 771 of the Supplements, Animal Protection People's Desire, 1277 of the Supplements, TOP 2. I am really pleased that we are today giving a stage to animal welfare, but this stage would have been used and deserved by animal welfare for a long time. I would also like to thank the initiators of the popular animal welfare desire, especially the Signatories, for the more than 400 000 people who have signed this popular desire. One can say: All Vorarlberg – from the number of inhabitants – is for more animal welfare, for an end to mass animal husbandry in Austria, and that is a very nice thing. Ladies and gentlemen! The system of animal husbandry in agriculture is ill. This is the result of the fact that Austria, especially the competent Minister of Agriculture or the relevant Minister of Agriculture, has always placed only the minimum level of legal requirements in this area for years. We as SPÖ have always had a problem with this and have always wanted more and more animal protection, but we – quite honestly and openly – have failed in the blockade policy of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I have the impression that the Greens have also failed in this blockade policy, because the motion for a resolution we have tabled today is another proof of this blockade policy on animal welfare. Although the measures contained therein – carefully formulated – are consistently acceptable, they are not concrete, they are not binding in terms of implementation, and the really important points are missing. If the government parties were really serious about animal welfare, we would now discuss a legislative proposal, so it was once again denied a chance. However, we have also missed an opportunity in the course of the negotiations on the common agricultural policy. There would have been the possibility of finally cutting off land support and creating targeted support programmes, for example for more animal welfare. Our local farmers clearly believe that they want to do more in this area, especially in the area of animal welfare, only because we need our support and, above all, more money. Ladies and gentlemen! The agricultural system, as we know it, is facing a major change, not only in the context of climate change, but also in view of the changes in the interests of domestic consumers. They say it themselves again and again, the Minister emphasizes it again and again: The consumer determines where the trip is going. - That's exactly the jumping point: People want high-quality meat products; it is no longer about the mass, but rather about eating a proper product a few times a week, than cooking meat every day. That's where the trip goes. A strong indication of this is also the food discounter Aldi, who says that by 2030 he will only offer meat of animal-friendly attitude. That's in eight years. On the one hand, the German market will have an impact on the domestic market, and on the other hand, we are sure that consumers will be more open to hearing about this issue. Politics is now in demand so that Austria does not fall behind and above all does not miss the signs of time. We need to get under the arms of farmers, because those who do not guarantee animal welfare in the future will simply not be able to survive in the market. I therefore consider the 20 % support for the conversion and construction of animal welfare-friendly stables to be non-target. 20 percent are just too little, it needs more money. Whoever invests in the farm in animal welfare should also be proud of it, he should also be able to show it proudly. Therefore, it does not only need to be adapted in the area of attitude, but also in the field of the seal of goodness. The AMA seal is in its current form only a pure marketing product and in no case a genuine quality seal. Today's debate would be a good opportunity to start a far-reaching reform, Minister. My The aim would be to ensure that customers in the supermarket take advantage of a product covered by the AMA seal and that they can automatically rely quite clearly on the animal to have a happy, pleasant life and that the slaughter has been stress-free and in Austria, and that the money for this product will also be spent with a good conscience. This is not an objective that has been taken very seriously, but that is the objective that consumers in that country want. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[11:38]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e8835	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled. He was explained in his broad outlines and distributed to all Members. Mr Franz Leonhard Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e8867	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are discussing animal welfare, a popular desire that has been signed by 416 000 citizens. As it has exceeded the 100 000 mark, it is also to be dealt with in Parliament. But this is not the real reason why we are discussing it today, but the real reason is that animal welfare is a very, very big concern for us. We want people in the country to be good, and we also want animals in our country to be good. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Yes, the handling of animals needs rules – rules are important, but even more important is that the animal owners are convinced that it is better for everyone if the animals are well and if animals are kept well. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The attitude of animals means responsibility, and that is why it is important to raise awareness. Animal owners need to know the needs of the animals, how the animals are to be accommodated, what preference the animals have and what is to be taken into account when feeding, so in some areas we have suggested a certificate of expertise, which should also come. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] For the understanding that the animals need, I always bring the following example: If someone has gained the knowledge that a brandlbracke simply does not find suitable conditions in a city apartment, then much has already been gained – for another dog race it may be possible. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] In order to create this awareness and give weight to the popular desire, to thank the initiators and to thank the 416,000 signers, we have launched a broad dialogue. After the first meeting in plenary, we started a hearing with the initiators, with Dr. Bohren Mena, with experts and experts, and set up a wide range. I can express here some of the statements that have confirmed me in my opinion: Dr. Born Mena says that animal welfare is only to be implemented in accordance with the animal owners. Mr Zollitsch says that people must be taken along and convinced that they are doing the right thing in animal husbandry. Mrs. Dr. Kopschar says that more animal welfare needs practical solutions. – We have ultimately followed this up, and a comprehensive resolution has been tabled on all the points of the animal welfare people’s desire. Together with the animal farmers, we have worked out this, with the farmers, with their organizations, with the pet farmers, with their organizations. This distinguishes us from the SPÖ. The SPÖ makes bans without taking or working on those affected. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We have had different opinions, but we have had very constructive discussions and achieved a good result. I can say that we can really talk about a milestone in animal welfare. What is now included in this motion for a resolution? – legislative regulations are required, for example to prevent the production of training, promote animal-friendly attitudes, advise on investment, provide advice on awareness raising and in the agricultural field, as well as measures for animal welfare-compliant further development in the food market. Finally, the quality standards of whole milk calf and calf Rosé should also be included in the AMA-Q-plus-Rind programme. This means less transport and more animal welfare. We can also promote this by buying local food. I would also like to remind you of the 120 million euro animal welfare package that Mrs Bundesminister Köstinger has set up. Yes, the Austrian regulations on animal welfare and animal welfare can also be seen as positive in international comparison, but imports should also be subject to the same standards as prescribed in Austria. Initiatives are therefore also needed at European level. This proposal is very comprehensive, so that it covers other applications in this field too, it is a major step towards more animal welfare. Let's agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e8958	Next speaker: Mr Hannes Amesbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e8980	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Freedom Party has been very favourable to this popular desire for animal protection from the very beginning. I myself have signed the popular desire, as have more than 416 000 Austrians. One reason for the strong appeal to this popular animal welfare demand is that many citizens – in spirit it is far more than those who have signed it – simply do not want to accept the treatment that is still partly practiced with animals in this country. Animals are our fellow creatures, and we have to ensure that these fellow creatures are treated properly. Ladies and gentlemen! This popular desire to protect animals, initiated by Sebastian Bohrn Mena, is fundamental to many other desires and demands in this area, by not seeking scapegoats and not working with debt allocations, especially against agriculture, but also trying to take agriculture with them. I am convinced that the mass of all the people working in agriculture deal properly with their animals entrusted to them. The proposal of the government parties also finds our approval – there are really big steps happening, especially in pig farming, so the whole floor in the current form is then in the case of new and rebuilt history; that is away, that is forbidden, that is a big step. Much happens in the area of poultry: Male one-day-bricks – the shredders are admittedly not playing the major role in Austria now, but I think it is good, also from the symbolism that this barbaric method is now stoned and clearly forbidden. Some things happen in the area of cattle transport, live animals transport, and a lot is happening – and this is especially important to us – in terms of transparency for the consumer, because it is too easy to always say: The consumer alone has this in hand, because the consumer also needs to know where it comes from, how the animals are kept and under what conditions the product was produced. Ladies and gentlemen! The attitude of so-called exodes is also regulated more strictly – an important area, because we all know that there are animals that simply can't be kept if you don't have the expertise. You can't even offer them the natural habitat, and it's also a safety problem, you think of highly toxic species. It is therefore an hour’s commandment that, if you want to keep these animals at all, you have to prove the relevant expertise. So this proposal by the Government is in total a good thing, and we will therefore vote in favour of this request and this committee report today, but we have also prepared our own motion for a resolution, which has been distributed, which is identical to the government's proposal, but we have set a clear deadline, namely 31.12.2022, so that the legislative proposals and legislative texts are also available accordingly. If it happens earlier, it should be right for us, but it cannot be that these legitimate concerns of this popular desire will be postponed to the Sankt-Nimmerleins Day, or sent at all, if new elections are to occur. In principle, however, I am pleased that in this House there is a clear commitment to better animal protection in Austria across party borders, which is beyond all party borders, because animal welfare is not an ideological question, animal welfare has all of us to address. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] [[11:47]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e9344	The motion for a resolution has been presented by the honourable Member in his broad outlines and is therefore under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Katharina Werner. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e9368	Madam President. Values Advisors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I can speak to you for the first time today in my role as animal welfare spokesperson of NEOS. This function has been filled in by my colleague Fiona Fiona Fiedler in recent years with a lot of commitment and heart blood. I would therefore like to use this framework and thank it for it and also for the very orderly handing over of the interlocutory role. Now for the animal protection people's desire: In my childhood I was allowed to spend many days and hours at my aunt's farm and uncle's farm, a dairy farm. I was allowed to feed calves, bring eggs, and much more. In addition to these beautiful memories are also not so beautiful: The dairy cows were housed and bound in a dark, gloomy stable. Even at the nearby riding farm, the horses were tied in tight stalls, without the possibility of moving – no comparison to today. So change is possible if we want it. The animal welfare demand has received 416 000 signatures. 416 000 people in Austria wish for this change. They wish for an end to the full - column floors, they wish for an end to the cricket killing, and they wish for an end to torture and much more. But not only on the side of consumers are the signs of change: If we look at the Green Report, we see that agriculture, which focuses on quality, innovation and also on niches, is calculated. It will need effort from both sides to implement the objectives set out in this resolution, from consumers and from producers, from farmers and from Bobos. For this, it is important to provide consumers with good decision-making basis for their daily purchase. I would like to ask my colleague Karin to do this. Double-builders: It is not understandable why an AMA seal, the most well-known seal of quality in food in Austria, is only the legal minimum for animal protection and not much more. There are several additional modules, but the system is complex and confusing. That's where it needs a different claim. It also needs better nutrition, starting at school, but also beyond. We have to make people understand that when they eat a 3 Euro carver, they approve of animal suffering. 416 000 Austrians have said that animal welfare is a central concern to them. It is now up to us MEPs to address this issue in this House and to work out the best possible solution across party borders, without compromises and with the courage for honest solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e9420	Now Federal Minister Wolfgang Mückstein has spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e9441	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As Minister for Animal Protection, I would like to stress once again the importance of the outcome of the animal welfare programme. Thank you, I thank the organizers for this. Animal welfare is a clear signal to the policy that people in Austria are expecting improvements in animal welfare. We need a different approach to animals in principle, we need a different approach to agriculture, but also to the environment as a whole, to our earth. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The popular desire provides an opportunity to think about all of this: Are we doing enough for our animals? Are we doing enough for our environment and our people? – Probably not, because if we were to rest on the already reached, we would not sit here and debate this issue. We take another step along a long path with the popular animal welfare desire. The people in Austria expect a better way of dealing with animals, they want a better attitude, they want a future agriculture, but they also want more transparency and fair prices – for people, for animals, for the environment. We must live up to these expectations, but we still have this long way ahead of us. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We are therefore taking the concrete implementation steps. As the Federal Government, we have a clear mandate, and we also accept it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e9490	Thanks a lot. Mrs Faika El-Nagashi has now been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e9515	Mass animal farming warms up the climate – so yesterday the “Kronen Zeitung” entitled and brought it quite rightly as a top topic a report on the relationship between our diet, our production methods and the climate crisis. The message of experts who spoke there is clear: We need to reduce the consumption of animal products. That is a question of survival, of our survival! – Mr Colleague! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brügl.]] More than 400,000 people have called on the animal welfare population to act – for climate, for the environment, for health, for animals. As an animal protection speaker, I cannot, of course, be satisfied with the result, even if it is a very large and very important step in the right direction – namely to an agriculture in which only a fraction of the current animal husbandry takes place, and this is in compliance with the highest standards, and to the fact that economic interests no longer attract the limits of animal welfare policies and that plant nutrition becomes a mainstream. This is another way, but we have taken an important step in the right direction. There will be no new full-column floors, and existing full-column floors in pig farming will become a run-out model. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Gödl.]] Instead, there are financial incentives for the rapid transition to more animal-friendly stable systems. There won't be any chick saviors in Austria, and there won't be any more chicken killings. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] There is an exception in so far as they are feed-cutters for zoos and bird-bird stations that have so far imported their feed-cutters from abroad. Instead, we promote the early gender determination in the egg and the virgin rearing. There is a clear no to training practices, breeders are taken into account. This is mainly about dogs and cats, but also about other animals in the pet area. There are also improvements in the attitudes of wild animals, especially exotic wild animals. There is a positive list and there will be evidence of the attitude. There will be support for so-called animal hoarding and also a round table on the problem of uncastrated cats with free movement. These are just a few points from our joint motion for a resolution, and I would like to thank all those who have contributed: This is the coalition partner, these are all opposition parties that support this important step. I would especially like to thank those who have not let go and initiated a popular desire for the animals – Sebastian Born Mena and his team – and the hundreds of thousands of people who have signed the popular desire regardless of their party political attitude. The motion for a resolution is a first important step and we will not stop. The direction is clear, but it will continue to need pressure, pressure from the population, civil society, NGOs, to open and transparent the drama of the states, to raise awareness of the massive suffering of animals and to make pressure for change. Ten years ago, the book by social psychologist and activist Melanie Joy was published with the title: “Why we love dogs, eat pigs and put on cows.” – So why do we make some animals our friends and others our food? What makes a living creature eat? And why do we allow certain animals to be tormented and killed, and treat others like our family members? This ideology – Melanie Joy calls it karnasm – we also need to change step by step. Perhaps it is also an incentive for you to try to celebrate the upcoming festivals and holidays once without meat dishes, with vegetable alternatives, as vegan as possible – as vegan as it is possible for you. In any case, I wish you peaceful, quiet and relaxing days. Our work continues, our negotiations continue. In 2022, the new laws will be on the table. We will implement the motion for a resolution, and we will talk more politically and parliamentaryly about the open points. Animal welfare remains a popular desire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e9602	Next speaker: Mr Georg Strasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e9644	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to thank colleagues Sebastian Bohrn Mena for the preliminary work on this project on animal welfare. This is an achievement in bringing together over 400 000 signatures for this important concern. I also thank the people who signed this. I think the previous speakers have already documented that the Austrian Parliament has taken very seriously in a parliamentary process, but also the coalition in an informal process together with the associations, ministries and other experts of this popular desire. I would like to describe Sebastian Bohren Mena's first building block: He made it through his formulations that no culprits have been sought in this entire discussion process – Hannes Amesbauer has already analysed it – but that solutions have been sought. I would also like to thank the green coalition partner, the green coalition partners, Faika El-Nagashi and Olga Vogluer, and my colleague, animal protection spokesman Franz Eßl. I believe that this motion for a resolution is not only comprehensive in pages and texts, but also has a lot of substance – and I will talk about it – that many things are already on the way and many things will come. But it is also important to me to say that there is a need for a close-up between farmers, processors, trade, gastronomy and, ultimately, consumers. Mrs Ecker – I will then address your speech briefly – the comments about farmers in half a sentence, that it is necessary for us to be taken under the arms, are a little bit for a socially oriented party. I notice: Processors, trade and also gastronomy are in duty because in days like this, higher prices are urgently needed in increasing production costs. Finally, we should also be able to release consumers who are not responsible. It is important that we can also market our premium products at higher prices. But now I come to my colleague Ecker and her remarks. I would like to make a few points. They confirm that there is only a minimum level of legal standards. – I would like to dispute this because the international animal welfare index confirms that: Austria's agriculture compared with other agricultural systems is top-ranking, the number one is in international comparison, but we are also willing to take further steps. They complain that there is nothing to read about animal welfare in the common agricultural policy. – I can also answer that, Mrs Ecker: You have to look at the Ministry's documents. There are modules that support special, higher-quality attitudes. Then quote Aldi. – I can quote the initiative of the VÖS, the association of Austrian pig farmers: We want to accommodate a million organic and premium pigs on the Austrian market by 2030. Aldi is well known in Austria Hofer, and Hofer also supports this goal in Austria and the initiative of our pig farmers. Then I put a wrong information right: Animal welfare schemes are supported by 35 percent, a very high rate of funding, which is also intended to further stimulate investment. I also recommend a conversation with Michael Blass from AMA-Marketing GmbH. The AMA seal is in further development, and if you look into the application, you will find the corresponding projects and text blocks to do so. Finally, I would like to thank the NEOS, Mr Werner, and the FPÖ, with colleagues Amesbauer, for supporting this request. It will soon be implemented. Many projects are already on their way. Thank you for the good cooperation!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e9711	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e9733	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As a Freedom Party, we are happy to support the content of this popular desire, with a lot more to do. We very much congratulate all 416 000 people who have signed and the initiators on this popular desire, which has set out essential points. I just have to say one thing: Animal suffering is indivisible. At the same meeting of the Committee on Health, in which we discussed this popular desire, we as the Freedom Party have made a request for animal suffering, namely the suffering of 25 000 deer which are mowed to death or seriously injured in the summer. It's inconceivable: 25 000 deer are mowed to death every summer. That's massive animal suffering. We know the box from “Bambi” and so on. This is really an animal of the heart. What I would have never considered possible is that at the same session, in which the popular animal welfare desire is also brought in the right direction with us and the first correct steps are being taken, and that our request on this subject is adjourned again. [[Interlocutors El-Nagashi and Stögmüller.]] Yes – towards Green – is animal suffering really as divisable as you want to see it? How, then, do you want to explain to people outside that you continue to watch when 25,000 deer are mowed to death? We have tabled an objectively well-founded request and wanted measures to be supported to prevent this to-death mowing of deer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's what I'm saying on the one hand, so that we don't celebrate to death today and here and say: Hurra, we're so good. Secondly, I say that again and again: I have been waiting a long time for an initiative with which we are finally entering into this inconvenient Mercosur agreement with which we have been working with beef and veal. exchange cars, bury cars. We could have 'caught' this already this year in the European Parliament – under quotation marks – if four EU mandates from the EIAP had agreed to end this negotiations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] So we still have work. Some things have been done, but much is still ahead of us.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e9793	Next speaker: Deputies Clemens Stammler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e9817	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values listeners! In recent months, when I was on my way home from Vienna to my farm, I have thought of the often: We have brought it far: nine million gashed chicks annually to gain laying hens, while their brothers have no use; pigs on full-column floors, of which we are presented almost daily in front of Parliament; Beef and veal on board cargo ships on the Mediterranean Sea, which are not allowed to land anywhere, shall be transhiped. But that's a social problem, because it's yours. Egg and it's your egg standing on the breakfast table, and it's your sausage that's on the table. The responsibility cannot therefore lie alone with the farmer, and I believe that the animal welfare people's desire has shown with the 416 000 signatorys that this is a social problem. For us the question arises: Are we making policies for people, or are we making policies for consumers? In the case of surveys, over 80 percent of the Austrian population argues that we have more animal welfare to care for. It is also true that the purchase decision of consumers is then slightly different. Unfortunately, the shopping cart is filled differently. This is only half the truth, however, because it is really our task to create transparency so that the consumer, the consumer, can make a purchase decision, and it is our job to create the market for it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to mention the national procurement plan. If we consistently implement it, the public canteens – including the opera ball – will no longer have these liver cheeses that had to experience the history of the full-column floor and the import. At the same time, I would like to ask the countries and the municipalities to adapt this national procurement plan and to include it in their procurement. We have also seen that there is a major problem with the meat of the processing industry. This goes from the sausage to the liver cheese, but also to the cat food. There the margin is lost, where exactly the meat we want to make visible with this animal welfare request and also with this motion for a resolution is hidden. Because it fills me with pride, I would also like to mention the upper Austrian pioneer role of the organic farmers in the poultry industry, who have demonstrated with the project fraternal tap, how to create a system by means of innovation, by thinking, through forwardness, in order to prevent, for example, grumbling killing. We from the circle of the organic farmers from Upper Austria have managed to use this model now in the entire industry. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It means you're what you eat. In this sense, we may need to consider whether we should continue to make social policy on cheap food or whether we simply support people who cannot afford quality because of their financial situation. I think what we must not forget is: We also support the health system, because those who eat healthy animals have more chance of staying healthy themselves.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e9878	Next speaker: Mr Josef Hechenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e9899	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! When we talk about animal welfare at lunchtime, I think we should also be grateful to the farmers who provide us with the best and the highest quality food on a daily basis. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] As can be seen from the text of popular animal welfare, animals are “feeling creatures. ” That is why we must deal very sensitively with this issue. I know and I am convinced that the issue of animal welfare is important not only to society but also to farmers' families. I recently visited a farm family with two small children in the Tyrolean Oberland. When we went to the stable, the children at the age of four and five presented me with each single cow by name. That is, with us animals are not production units, but have names and belong to the family. I believe it is crucial that this form of agriculture should also be preserved in the future, these micro- and micro-enterprises, which are and remain the backbone of a land-based agriculture. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Regardless of whether the animals are kept in the runway or in the stable with combination control, it is also very important that food production is sustainable in this context. It is also clear that livestock farming in the countryside is alternatively non-existent. Without animals, there is no land-covering agriculture. That is why I am very happy about this outcome today. However, it is also crucial that we not only decide on agriculture, on farm families, on how to look at animal welfare, not to work with bans, but also with incentives to take people on the road and thus to improve and increase animal welfare in general. It is also very important to me that we not only talk about farm animals but also about the pets. We know that in the pandemic a lot of people have acquired pets – people who, in part, have no or little idea how to deal with animals. That this evidence of expertise, for example in dogs, includes the fact that people are also trained and trained accordingly, I think is very crucial and important so that the Bernhardiner on the seventh floor on the 50-square-meter apartment is also good. I believe that animal protection is comprehensive and a cross-sectional matter. That is why today's motion for a resolution is a first important step. I am convinced that more will follow, but it is only if people are taken with incentives and not punished with bans more or less. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this sense it is a first important step, and further will follow. Thanks again to our farm families who now provide us with high-quality food at hour.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e9962	Next speaker: Mrs Ulrike Fischer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e9984	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are talking about the popular animal welfare desire that has been so important to us consumers that it has supported over 400 000 people. They are people who are interested in animals because animals are our fellowmen - how to say best? – They are fellow creatures, they are living beings. Today, I deliberately carry the button “Stop violence against women”, because it is also about violence against animals, and there should be no violence against animals; no violence – for that I commit – neither against pets nor against farm animals. If we are honest, there should not even be this distinction. When I was a child, my favorite animals were the hendls who walked around us. Anyone who sees how a hendl can rejoice when it finds a worm knows that animals also play. Hendln do not belong to leghold batteries, do not belong in cages, but I would like to call for free animal farming. This popular animal welfare desire now creates a link between agriculture, consumer protection and the environment. When we look into the mirror in the morning, we need to know what we eat, and that is not necessarily just what we see in advertising. We need an animal-friendly attitude and a label that goes beyond the edge of the plate. Therefore, we are also committed to appropriate EU provisions, because everyone wants to know what he eats, what he consumes. And animal welfare we all deserved ourselves as a society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e10017	Next speaker: Mr Dietmar Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e10041	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Animal welfare is aimed at protecting the life and well-being of the animals, out of the special responsibility of the human being for the animal as a fellow creature. I think everyone here in this House can agree. In my opinion, it is a shame that, in Austria in 2021, we still need to discuss torture, bonding, intoxication-free piglets castration and full-column soils and then set deadlines to finally remove this animal suffering in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have already said in the Health Committee that the request made by the government parties does not correspond to the use of the house. We received it about 13 hours before the start of the Health Committee, so comprehensive that it could no longer be controlled and examined. I also said that's too little for us. Only declarations of intent are contained in this application, there are no deadlines. Like today at the speaker's desk, we're just saying we're getting rid of the guttering of the chicks. – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is nice if this is to be abolished, but Then there are deadlines, then we want to know when the killing of the chicks in Austria has finally ended. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why we are introducing a motion for a resolution in which we are really addressing those things in which we call for the legal ban on the killing of viable chicks with the entry into force on 1.6.2022. And that's no surprise! We have been making proposals in this House for years to deal with these issues, which are permanently postponed by the government parties. We want to get these issues done at last! We want to get rid of these chicks, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the same time, we want to introduce the ban to keep pigs on completely perforated soil, with the entry into force of 1. January 2027, so that even once again there is a feeling of well-being for the pigs in it. These applications were also made in this House years ago. Also this request has been constantly postponed by the government parties for years, ladies and gentlemen, and then you come out and say that new buildings are allowed from 1. January 2022 no more full-column floors are made – but all the old buildings with the full-column floors remain, ladies and gentlemen! That's exactly what we want. We don't want perforated soils anymore! We want a two-legged system for pigs, a bay that is designed with straw, where the pigs feel comfortable, and a bay where they can make their cotab. This is a call we are making, and this is a call for the welfare of animals in this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Bitch.]] There is also – and this is not at all included in the request of the government parties – the introduction of the ban on the intoxication of male pigs. We've been discussing this in this house for years. We have already made x-time requests for this. We do not even find it in the request of the government parties that the deaf castration of the piglets should at last be banned! I think that this is a reason not to accept this request, but rather to the request of the Social Democratic Party, because it sets a time limit for the abolition of all of these things which I call here, so that there is really a welfare for the animals in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now finally, because the initiator of popular desire was so greatly called: I'm an article from the “Press” of the 22nd century. ==References====External links== [[The speaker shall keep an expression of the said article up to date.]] I recommend every Austrian and every Austrian to read this article and take a picture of what this article says. I don't think the press lied here. It's not mine, it's in the press. There's more to say: Every euro that is donated there is a wasteful euro. Donate to clubs that really do something for animal protection!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e10129	Mrs Pia Philippa Strachezu has now been reported. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e10159	Madam President. Dear Seers! High house! Playful, intelligent, self-confident, music-loving – all this and a lot more are character characteristics that a pig can have. Transplantation of chemically modified pig heart valves is already routine in hospitals, their skin is used in burnt victims, collagen membranes are found in tissue and bone regeneration. Use. Nevertheless: The so-called farm animals, when it comes to compassion, are simply excluded from many people, even though they are often so close to us in everyday life. In fact, it would be relatively easy to make, because the Austrian Animal Protection Act is a so-called framework law. A relatively simple break down means that one can demand a certain dynamic from such a law when it comes to updating through knowledge from science, ethics and the spirit of time on the subject of animal welfare, because the design of such a framework law takes place at several levels of regulation and thus offers an ideal base for dynamic, active action. The aim of animal welfare is – no na – the protection of the life and well-being of the animals. Two pillars make up the Animal Protection Act, prohibition and command standards: Prohibition of animal torture, prohibition of killing without reasonable reason and so on, the standards of command are intended to ensure the welfare of animals. Is there, however, even the concept of well-being in the field of animal welfare? Is agriculture still fit for the future at this time of systemic change if everything remains the same? - Rather no. What does sustainable mean? – This means, above all, the protection of agriculture. This is about so much more than the term sustainability: A sustainable environmental and agricultural policy is also an animal welfare policy. However, it cannot be implemented without sufficient financial resources, which are distributed fairly and in particular efficiently. No harm to animals is in a clear tension with the economy, with a high economic pressure, and much that does not correspond to a certain degree of economic efficiency is opposed to a strict blockade. My previous speakers have said a lot about what is right and important. I would like to take up the point of the whole floor again. We all know: Five European countries have already taken this step towards more animal welfare, including none less than the largest pig producer in the EU, Denmark. In Austria, reality looks really sad for about 90 percent of pigs. The animals live on concrete, on full floor, without straw, motion and employment. This not only results in a four-fold higher death rate, but above all also results in injuries, inflamed wounds. Once more I would like to talk to the myth of organic pigs: What does it mean to live a life as a organic pig? – Even the supposedly happy organic pig has no legal right to free run, to meadow, to earth or sun. Ferment castration, coppering of the tails and grinding off of the tail teeth are one of the regular procedures, although even in the evil, conventional pig farming such measures are actually allowed only in individual cases. However, practice also looks more like the usual reality in some organic farms than after a single case. As with many things that bio insists on, you have to look more closely at them. I know the changeover is actually very cost-intensive. This has also been known to farmers who have already dared to take this courageous step, who have been willing to take this difficult path, all this effort to take on this commitment, because they know: It needs to be consistent between animal welfare and consumer needs. A research project has also shown that around a third of the farmers feel that this transition is quite feasible and could also imagine it. Around a third of them are younger farmers, and I think: Perfect, so we have people who are willing not only to take this tiresome profession of agriculture, but are also ready to act and think in the future. This is especially important so that Austrian quality remains high and we do not have to expect further drastic quality losses over a short or long time and Austria will lose the very unique USP for its products. I know this change costs money, but it's about existence. If we do not ask ourselves the question out of a certain ethics or morality, then perhaps out of a certain economy. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] It is enough, when we are ready to implement small parts, to turn on small screws, so that we can see for the large holistic, total, how it can work better, more efficiently, so that we can be proud of Austrian products even in 20 years. Yes, greens, I know it's an honest concern to you, I really know, and I know that there was a lot of effort there. I also know that it is very difficult with colleagues Eßl to find a consensus, but there is in this room a Member who really – I think it is 15 years – has experience when it comes to negotiations with Members of the European Parliament, and that is Mr Keck. [[Congratulations on representatives of the SPÖ]] You can always ask him for advice, because if I know one thing, then animal welfare is a real concern to him. Politics has no place for personal circumstances. You have to say that.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e10240	Madam President, I have already drawn your attention to the fact that your speaking time has been exhausted. You still have a final sentence, and then we come to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e10256	Well, then I would really like to use the sentence to thank all the shelterers in Austria for their commitment, for their courage, for their patience. There is still much to be said about animal welfare, but in one sentence I can no longer accommodate it now. - Thank you. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the Greens and the Agg. This is the list of all the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.]] [[12:28]] [[12:28:28]] Vote on agenda items 1 and 2
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e10289	I do not have any more words to speak about this. That concludes this debate. I ask the report whether it would like to have a final word. – That does not seem to be the case. I would now come to the moved votes if everyone agreed that I would proceed immediately. – That this is possible has now been so signaled to me. Then I'll go like that. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1037 of the supplements. Whoever speaks for the notice, I ask him for a sign. The report was unanimously taken note of. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Philip Kucher, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Red-white/red vaccination check iHv. 500 euros to prevent further lockdowns, by achieving a 90% vaccination rate". Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Philip Kucher, colleagues, on 'a broad-ranging, low-disciplinary information and information campaign on corona vaccination'. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would like to ask for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues, on ‘No to the duty of vaccination, no to discrimination Unvaccinated, yes to Plan B!’ Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1277 of the supplements. Whoever is for this consideration, I ask him for a sign of approval. The report was unanimously taken note of. We come to the vote on the resolution accompanying the Committee's report 1277 of the Supplements on'measures to implement the animal welfare demand'. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[215/E]] We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dietmar Keck, ladies and gentlemen, on'measures to implement the animal welfare request'. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority, so he is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hannes Amesbauer, colleagues, on 'The implementation strategy for the concerns and demands of the animal welfare population for the year 2022'. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. [[12:31:38]] 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Education on popular desire (772 e.g.) ‘Ethics for ALL’ (915 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e10441	This leads us to the 3rd place. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I welcome Mr Martin Polashek in our midst. I call Mrs Nurten Yılmazal's first speaker. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e10475	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you had to prepare an hour of ethics lessons today, what would be the topics you could discuss? – Probably the pandemic, the relationship of rights to each other, the right to health and how individual fundamental rights can be temporarily limited, to ensure public health. One would talk about rights and obligations and about our constitution. What does this exceptional situation do to us? How does the relationship between individuals and society shift? What changes? What does this physical distance also do with mental health? How do perceptions shift, what values may have shifted in the pandemic? What's more important to us than before? What form of work is suddenly more relevant? What's not so important anymore? Our young people should discuss all of this, and that is why it is also necessary to teach ethics. These are topics that not only interest those children and young people who have graduated from religious education – they concern all pupils in the lower education system, but also vocational students and pupils in polytechnic schools. We as SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen, say clearly and clearly: Therefore, there is a need to teach ethics for all and not only for those who have decided against religious teaching! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, as well as by Mr Künsberg Sarre and Mr Loacker.]] That is why I signed the popular desire. – Mr Federal Minister, have you supported popular desire? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Federal Minister Polashek shakes his head.]] With the current regulation – ethics only for unsubscribing from religious teaching – you can actually devalue the new subject. This regulation also undermines a central requirement of the subject, namely to reflect together on the relationship between society and individuals. The emphasis is on this, because it is only in the class community, when the whole class is discussing in its bandwidth and plurality, that is not just the atheists or those who have signed off from religious teaching. Ethics concern everyone. I hope, however, that I will encounter open ears with you, Federal Minister Polachek, because it is not the same whether you are attending a religious teaching or an ethics teaching. It is not the same whether you are separated from the class community or learning together. It is not the same whether one speaks of religious ethics or allows a discussion about it in a plural space of different world views. We don't want children and young people to be separated, either in class or elsewhere. Our society is a diverse, colorful and plural: We live together in Austria, have different origins and religious confessions. I see this as an opportunity, but also a challenge: We can learn from each other, but we also need to learn to deal with this diversity, which is central to integration and cohesion. Ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely this notch that people's desire also suggests ethics for all, which is why we also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e10535	Next speaker: Mr Rudolf Taschner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e10556	Madam President. High house! Mrs Yılmaz, you support this popular desire for comprehensible reasons. I can imagine that this is very useful for you, because you actually have the idea of a laizist state in mind. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] So it would be the ethics teaching of the general teaching you should have, and religious teaching would actually not interest the state any more. That is the concept you wish for, which will also be implemented in other countries. I would like to introduce to you a different concept, which I also feel is closed within myself, and it is then the question of which approach for Austria is the more meaningful. They say that the children would be “separate” through religious teaching and ethics – the children will also be separated in many other ways, and I cannot understand this kind of separation as something evil. There are children who attend music lessons, and others attend sign lessons, I have experienced that myself and there are still today. This is not a question of depreciation or discrimination, but different preferences and different interests are served differently. We do not have a laizist state in Austria, for good reason. [[Abg. Loacker: I'm excited about that!]] We have a state that recognizes religious communities. There are certain religious communities that are recognized because the state believes that on the one hand there is also the religious feeling, the feeling of a faith will, in the condition of humana. Everyone wants to believe in anything. [[Abg. Blimlinger: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] There was a mayor of Vienna who believed in the God of Bacchus; there is a former MP Pilz who believed in the Fourth International; there are people who believe in nature – everyone thus has his faith. Certain beliefs are expressed in the fact that one forms a community, then this faith – which is in itself only private and has to be private – is suddenly included in public aspects, and there are public issues. Therefore, the State is interested in getting to know these religious communities and in seeing whether they are also compatible with the ideas of the informed state. There are such religious communities, they are simply recognized, and one should also give them the opportunity to work in schools. This is the attitude we have for this, and I think that this is a very understandable attitude if one ensures that religious teaching is not missionary, but also carried out in the sense of Enlightenment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is carried out in Austria, we also want to ensure that this is done: not missioning, but Enlightenment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this religious teaching, it is also quite certain that ethical issues, such as how the development of personality looks toward the pandemic, will be asked just as in an ethics teaching, of course with a different background – on the one hand, the transcendence of what you believe in is in the center, on the other hand, there is no such thing. Why not? These possibilities are available. I would also say that for the young ladies and gentlemen who enjoy one class or another, it can even be very exciting to experience this difference. We offer diversity, you want to introduce this difference as well. [[Abg. Yılmaz: No!]] They say that this religious teaching is then heard out of school, because it will happen. [[Abg. Yılmaz: No!]] – Yes, that would happen, of course. Because of this diversity that we offer, we have actually created an interesting and attractive model and created a very good curriculum for ethics. [[New call of the abg. Yılmaz.]] We will train ethics teachers accordingly, also religious teachers are trained in this sense of the enlightened state. We will see how the future continues to develop, but the variety lies in the sausages.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e10665	The next item is Mrs Petra Vorderwinkler's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e10689	Madam President. Minister! High house! Values Advisors! What's Ethics at all? – Ethics includes the concepts of freedom, morality, values, communication, dialogue, dignity and responsibility. It deals with good and bad human action and its evaluation, so it is a responsible way of dealing with each other. That's more questionable than ever, I'd say. The training of conscience starts from a child-psychological point of view in the kindergarten, and at about ten years of age, children can distinguish what is portable for a society and what is not. Many, however, also need opportunities beyond the family to experience. Ladies and gentlemen, communication of values is the key to solutions in many areas with which children and young people have to struggle especially during this difficult time. Against the background of the alarming increasing number of children and young people who have mental problems, against the background of the rising number of violence and the increasing number of children and young people who have to struggle with the accompanying phenomena of the pandemic and have been left alone, in the light of the lack of adequate assistance and no treatment places available, against this background, in the field of ethics – ethics for all – time and space to learn how to deal with problems and to get tools to meet these challenges. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now we have a class that is discriminatory, because he cannot benefit all children. Dr. Tashner, we don't want to compete, we don't want a choice between religious teaching and ethics. We want a subject of ethics for everyone. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We want to give children space and time to be able to meet the challenges of this time. It is up to policy to see to it that conditions are created and these calls for help are taken seriously, because we need a stable and peaceful society of tomorrow, and we finally need laws that are useful in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e10732	Next speaker: Mr Hermann Brügl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e10753	Madam President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! In times when all the events are geared to Corona, in which all the headlights are directed at Corona, in times when it is only a matter of imprisonment and masquerade pressure, it does quite well to see that the citizens outside also deal with other issues and other problems: 160,000 people have signed this popular desire. We live in an increasingly pluralist society. It is also urgent in these times that we raise the values of European traditions to a common foundation and convey them to our children, especially because school and youth are the times that shape us massively for later life. Our basic, freedom of access to ethics education has not changed in the course of the parliamentary process – spoken treatment in the Committee, expert hearing and so on. Ethics teaching, which stands firm for us, must remain neutral, must be informative, must be ideology-free and policy-free. Ethics should not bring about a reshaping of our children in the sense of political indoctrination, nor should there be. Finally, ethics cannot and cannot be a competition for religious teaching and not for philosophy teaching. [[Abg. Yılmaz: No!]] This teaching of ethics must not banish religion or philosophy from our schools. Ethics lessons should and must promote the willingness of our youth to engage in our society and take on responsibility. Ethics lessons must be used to keep young people away from radicalisation trends, especially in times when radical Islam in our European world is increasingly taking a foothold. Finally, I tell you that ethics teaching is not an option for all of us. We don't want to teach ethics in folk schools. We do not want this ethics lesson, because it must be clearly defined that the folk school serves to teach our children basic skills; that they read, write and calculate, and that they can take the first steps into a social structure there. That is why we reject this ethics for all. We want them in certain areas, we want them in the upper level, we want them for those who quit religious education, but not in the lower levels. Finally, I would also like to ask you, Minister of State, to: The mask has lost nothing in class and during classes, please free our children from this masquerade force!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e10790	Next speaker: Mrs Sibylle Hamann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e10811	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Especially thanks to the 160 000 signatorys of this popular desire! Ethics for all, that is indeed covered in very large parts with our old green demands. Yes, of course, children and young people need ethics in school, they need to exchange on the big issues of life and living together, questioning rules, duties, rights, freedoms and taboos. In as hot situations as they do in society, they need it more than ever. I would like to thank Mr Yılmaz, who has given some examples of such questions. So we fixed ethics in class. It is true that we have not anchored them to the extent required in this popular desire, because that would require consensus with the EIA. But we are, I can really promise here, in big steps on the way there. I try to briefly outline these steps: We don't have ethics as required from 1st to 13th. ==References====External links== School level, and more will follow. We have established them, that is also right, not for all, but once only for those who do not go into religion – that is at the moment, depending on the school type and the place, about half of all students – but, that is very important to me, we expressly allow and wish for cooperation and joint projects between ethics and the various religious teachings by expressing these hours together. This means that the door is open to a whole new, exciting common multi-faceted approach, and they will hopefully be filled with life this year already in school everyday. We're massively expanding. The school experiment has so far covered some 233 locations, and it will be very soon 780. We need very, very many new teachers with good qualifications. That is why we have already established a full-fledged ethic teaching programme, also as required in popular desire, both for new teachers and for already working, with that background: The more diversity comes into the ethics from the technical background, the better, also in combination with mathematics, with history, with movement and sport. The more we have different access, the more interesting it becomes. We also establish quality assurance by the school quality managers as required. We also want to evaluate after the first roll-out of this first phase. This is also reflected in the joint motion for a resolution we shall put forward. Overall, we can say that we are anchoring a new important subject in the regular school business. I can only recommend to everyone, both to you and to the signatorys of popular desire: Look You are looking at the great curriculum already available for this subject, developed by various bodies, together with philosophers and philosophers! This is about the really big, big issues from death aid to diversity and topics such as justice, work, relationships et cetera. I wish I could have learned this in my own schooling. I am looking forward to the fact that, from now on in Austria, more students will be able to learn each year. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e10865	Next speaker: Mrs Martina Künsberg Sarre. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e10887	Madam President. Minister Polachek! High house! Dear viewers! If you listen to the two teachers of the government groups: There can be nothing more apart than the positions of ÖVP and Greens. You can talk about everything, namely that we are on our way to a compulsory subject – but we are not. If you have listened to Mr Taschner's words, you can conclude that we are far from here. You have to hold that one down. You can say that so often, it's simply not true. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] It's always the same. I understand that you also want to, and here you are, I think, also very credible in it, but it is slowly a bit funny to hear on all educational projects: We Greens would really like to, but unfortunately, unfortunately we do not agree with the ÖVP! - That's too little. This sentence comes back again and again, every time. Education policy will not go much further. First of all, I would like to thank the initiators of the ethnic people's desire and also the Signatories. Such a popular desire to initiate costs a lot of power and is time-intensive. It is a pity that the main requirement was not accepted, namely to introduce an ethical subject for all, that after 20 years of schooling this historic opportunity was omitted. What is it about? – De facto again at the ÖVP. We need ethics, I think, more urgent than ever. Look at the time we live in, almost every week, a woman's murder! We discuss rights and obligations and we discuss tolerance – or we should discuss tolerance – and not only we adults, but also the children should start with it, not apart from each other. To compare ethics and religious teaching with sign or music lessons, I think, is a very devious comparison. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] We have to stay in the conversation. Children need to stay in conversation or even get into the conversation first, discuss different points of view, different perspectives and approaches. It is about working together, fixing or discussing together, how we want to live together here in Austria, and not only in one religious community and the other religious community – all of this has its authority, but it needs a lesson in which we can discuss these issues together, including the big issues. What happened now? – The typical Austrian solution has come out: the smallest common denominator, and the polytechnic schools are not even covered. This also takes over the red-pinke city government in Vienna as a pilot project. As a green person you can continue to say: Better than nothing, this is the first step!, but you now know the education system in Austria very well: Everything that is there remains in this rather long and unchanged. It's very, very sorry that you've given this opportunity.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e10947	Mr Martin Polashek has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e10968	Madam President. Estimated members of the National Council! Ladies and gentlemen! The topic of ethics moves people and leads to discussions. We're going to experience this, too. It is therefore an issue with which I have a great deal to deal with in my role as Minister of Education. I would therefore also like to comment on today's debate in the National Council. The popular desire for ethics for all has reached many people in our society and it shows that this topic is of great interest to many. Over 150,000 people have declared their support. Within the last committee, a comprehensive opinion has already been delivered on the arguments of the initiator of the desire. I can underline today that the ethics lesson, which with this winter semester new into the 1. Secondary level II classes have started, a successful path. After all, over 20 years of schooling have succeeded in putting them into regular schooling. In the case of a third party, the I think this is a very great success. This also implemented an essential point of the government programme – after so many years as a school attempt. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] ==References====External links== Classes of the AHS and the 1. The BMHS classes expanded Ethik from 233 school experimental sites to more than 900 sites. This means that students who are unresponsive or who have previously been unregistered from religion and who have just had a free hour during religious education will now be given a lesson in which to deal with the essential issues of our living together and who have not yet had the opportunity to deal with issues such as life and death, friendship, climate change, human rights and so on. However, I think it is important that in parallel with this also in religious education it is now ensured that these ethical issues are discussed and that there is an active discussion with ethics. It should not be forgotten that in June of this year, religious communities have duly illustrated the ethical principles contained in their curriculums. You can also find these handcuffs on the website of the Ministry of Education. Religious teachers are now more than ever required to deal with these issues and to integrate ethics into their respective religious teaching. A first step was taken with this transfer of the school experiment. I think that ethics is also necessary in primary and secondary level I and not only in secondary level II. I will plan the next important steps and then implement them. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Hamann.]] But today I can also thank all those who have dealt with the popular desire and supported it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e11029	Mrs Gertraud Salzmann is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e11050	Madam President. Mr. Minister, welcome to the House! I am very pleased that, in this general debate, we are also debating the popular desire for ethics for all today. Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate spectators at home! We bring ethical education to schools for all students. Keeping this up is important to me. Mr Frührwinkler. — (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. For 20 years, we have been calling for ethics lessons from schools and in these 20 years, many years in which the SPÖ had the opportunity to implement this ethics teaching. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go,]] We are now putting it into practice with the Greens and I am very pleased that starting with the school year we are making this basic ethical education possible for all students. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The popular desire for ethics for all is one of three that we are negotiating today. I can assure you that we take popular desires very seriously in our political debates, carefully examine the concerns and also address concerns. In this way, we have also taken up a number of concerns regarding ethics, including that of For this ethic teaching a separate teaching programme and also a good curriculum is needed. As an ÖVP, we are committed to a mandatory education of values to enable our children to examine options for action on an in-depth basis, which is intended to enable them to make ethical decisions that should enable them to find orientation for a successful life, but, of course, should also be able to form society. That is why we have been implementing ethics for all students in religious education and ethics since this school year. Ladies and gentlemen, I have 30 years of school experience that I bring, and I can assure you: Many ethical content is treated in all religious teachings of different religions and denominations. There is a very important contribution to human and personality development. Together with your predecessor, Mr. Fäsmann, the religious communities have also made very clear and transparent what the ethical topics are in the individual religious curriculums – and there is a lot of them. I also consider it absolutely necessary to hold the teaching of religion in school, because of course we also have a good view of the choice of teachers, the training of religious teachers and, of course, the content of teaching. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as by Mr Hamann and Mr Jakob Schwarz.]] I consider the ethics teaching for all those students who are not in a religious class to be absolutely necessary, and we have really fought for it from the teacher side over many years. Ethics teach brings a lot of respect, tolerance and appreciation that students learn in teaching, he brings together an essential and essential part of democracy education and the prevention of fundamentalism. Therefore, as ÖVP, we, together with the Greens, confess to this introduction of ethics for all those who are not in religious education – in a good co-existence of these subjects at schools and not in one against each other. I'm pleading very strongly for a good relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e11116	Next speaker is Mag. Hannes Amesbauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e11138	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The popular desire for ethics for all has reached the necessary obstacle and has, of course, deserved to be properly supported in Parliament – we as the Freedom Party are always great friends of direct democracy – and this popular desire has also been treated properly in a parliamentary way. There was an interesting expert hearing. But I also have to say that my group is quite clear: We will be the content of this I don't want to get closer – and I'll do it briefly, why. On the one hand, after 20 years of schooling, this has already been mentioned several times, since the beginning of the current school year, one has the opportunity to participate in ethics lessons in the upper level optionally, if one does not participate in religious teaching. It is good that this discussion has now also been ended after 20 years of schooling. But the problem I have with popular desire in terms of content is something that has been clearly noted in hearing: The initiators – just as in truth the Greens – are concerned with the abolition of religious teaching, and we can in no way take this with us. [[Abg. Yılmaz: That's not true!]] – I have spoken about the Greens, Mrs Colleague, and not the SPÖ. The SPÖ wants to teach ethics in addition to religious teaching. That's where I wonder – and you didn't explain that either – where you want to take the necessary lessons. Do we want less mathematics, less foreign languages, less German? – It can't be either. [[Abg. Yılmaz: Total...!]] This story is all right, and I oppose all attacks against conventional religious teaching in school. One is not forced to do so, not even in folk school, and this solution to optional ethics for the upper level is in my view not a typical Austrian solution, but a good solution, which the Freedom Party has also agreed with conviction. So let's stop – from the left corner – acting so hostilely against the religious teaching of religion! Let us leave the church in the village and leave the religious teaching in the classroom!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e11193	The next speaker is Member Nico Marchetti. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e11218	Mr President. Estimated Minister of Education! [[Abg. Loacker: Difficult Curve...!]] Many things have already been said. I don't want to repeat them either. I would like to make one point once again, because I believe that the initiators of popular desire deserved that they really go into the depths of argument, why we represent a different position from them. It has been mentioned: It's also about religious teaching. That's what it's all about if there's no religious education in school. On the example of France, where this is the case, one sees that then the mediation of religion takes place without State-secured quality control or state regulation and, of course, extremism is also given much more space. I believe that even if you are not religious yourself or are not close to a confession, you have to accept this argument that you say: It may be better, such a thing takes place under state-regulated conditions quality-secured in school than it takes place elsewhere. That is, I think, simply a very, very essential point. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] What we are now introducing is not an experiment, but a really long and well-tested school attempt, which we are now transferring to the regular education system. The fact that ethics is introduced as an independent subject for all those who turn away from religion is not an idea of this government, but it is actually a school attempt in relation to which the desire for us to take over it has been made. That's what we're doing now. I think it's a very good solution. As Mr Salzmann said, in the course of the hearing, we have received our own motion for a resolution on some of the concerns raised by popular desire, such as the fact that there must be our own ethics teachers. By 2024, 2025, the framework conditions will be created for sufficient ethics teachers to be present, and a curriculum will have to be developed – so that is what we have taken up. I think that is a balanced solution, it is a good compromise. I don't think you need a lot of hammers, but you can just say that in this solution many interests are focused inside. This is a good thing and I am very pleased that after 20 years of schooling, this can really be rolled out to all of Austria at 233 school locations. That is why this is a good measure. I am looking forward to hearing the feedback from the schools.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e11262	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. I ask the clubs if they wish to interrupt before the vote. – That is not the case either. We shall therefore now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its report 915 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the resolution on the Committee's report 915 of the Supplements on 'To ensure the high-quality qualification of ethics teachers, to introduce a full course of teaching in ethics and quality assurance of ethics'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. [[216/E]] [[13:09:48]] 4. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 2085/A by Mr Mag. Michael Hammer, Mag. Eva Blimlinger, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Wage Law 1956, the Contracting Servants Act 1948, the Judge and Public Prosecutors' Service Act, the State Teachers' Service Law, the Land and Forestry Law of the State Teachers' Service Law, the State Contracting Teachers' Law 1966, the Land and Forestry Law of the State Contracting Persons and the Federal Staff Representative Act are amended (2. Service law Novelle 2021 (1218 e.g.) 5. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 1674/A(E) by Mr Christian Lausch, colleagues on fixed allowances and additional fees must become part of the basic reference (1219, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e11342	We now come to points 4 and 5 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. However, there was no oral reporting. Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Selma Yildirim. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e11374	Mr President. High house! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! The multiplicity of public servants during the crisis and the effort to keep the impact on the Austrian population as low as possible bring not only a plus of trust, but also a plus in salary, and that is really very encouraging, of an average of 3 percent for the public service. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express my sincere support for this report. Thank you for your outstanding work in hospitals and hospitals, in the care, in schools and at universities, in the labour market service – I recall the efficient handling of many applications for short work during the pandemic – in financial management and especially in case law. Our courts and prosecutors are facing major challenges right now and make an important contribution to the maintenance of social peace and the functioning of the rule of law. However, I would particularly like to stress the tireless use of the police, because they are really on the front line for security and stability. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In addition to the new service law, we are voting today on a request from the opposition, according to which flat-rate allowances and additional fees should become a fixed part of the basic reference. This is a sensible thing, and it makes sense because the present system is very unclear, unfair and not transparent. This is especially felt by those women and men in public service who for health reasons fail for a long time. The system also reduces the number of women in the public service. How's that? – I remember that the distribution of paid and unpaid overtime is very intrusive and unfortunately usually takes place at the expense of women. We Socialists and Socialists are calling for urgent reform of the right of employment and remuneration, Mr Vice-Chancellor. This is important for clear rules, for transparency and for fairer remuneration in the public service. Working conditions must become more attractive. We need the best heads of this country. Let us make sure that the interface between the state and the citizens works properly, because this will ultimately benefit us all! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e11413	I welcome Vice-President Werner Kogler to us in Parliament and now have the power to do so. Michael Hammeran's speaker, please. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e11438	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We decide, as my previous speaker has already said, the salary adjustments, the salary increases for the entire public service in the Federal Republic – for which we are also responsible. The conclusions we are standardising here are also the guideline for the countries and for the municipalities, and we know from most countries and communities that they are being adopted in this way. I think it is especially important at this time to make a clear salary adjustment. We know that the parameters are well-known, quite a high rate of inflation. We have an economic development, which is very, very positive. In many sectors of the private sector, we have clear wage increases, which are also justified; there are good pay statements. I think it is good and right to take account of the public service accordingly. With this salary increase in the range of 2.9 to 3.22 percent – the remunerations are 3 percent – I think, together, it has succeeded in achieving a really good conclusion. I can thank all the trade union negotiators, Mr Vice-Chancellor, but also the Minister of Finance for the fact that this conclusion has been reached in consensus. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to take the opportunity to thank all public servants, both the federal government and the countries and communities. We are used to doing professional and good work in Austria. In pandemic times, many areas of public administration and organization are particularly required, of course, these are our health and care facilities, these are our educational and childcare facilities, that is the entire security area, the police, the federal army, the justice, the teachers and, of course, the classical administration. I think there's really good work going on. . Thank you very much from our group. The FPÖ application: There is always a very simplified picture, one wants to introduce more or less an all-inclusive content in the executive area. As the word Supplements already says, these refer to special additional benefits, to the completion of special tasks. It is not a proper access to simply standardize everything, because it would not favour those who provide extra services, but would equal all. There are tax-related problems with regard to the risk allowance and it would eliminate the entire federal salary system if we were to unite everything. Allowances should then be granted if the benefits are also provided, and I think that is also the right access.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e11480	The next speaker is Mr Christian Lausch. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e11504	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We are talking today about the proposal 2085/A of the government parties, that is the 2. Service law-Novelle; Novelle's said too much, it's a novel. Much has not changed, one was again very economical in the implementation. Nevertheless, one knows that the public service has many construction sites that are urgently repaired, one was again very reluctant. In brief to my request 1674/A(E), flat-rate allowances and additional fees must become part of the basic reference. Mr Hammer has not understood my request, I take note of that. What exactly is this about? – colleague Yildirim has already said it: There is – the request has no color, it has been negotiated with the government, even with the ÖVP 2017, we have always had a relatively good basis – in the executive, in the health care system, in the police, in the judicial guard, in the military very, very many supplements. This becomes a problem when a staff member suffers a heart attack or stroke or has cancer: then 40 to 50 percent of his basic content is lost, and this often leads to social dramas. - The vice chancellor nods. I've been in politics for so long to say it's not the green one, it's once again the ÖVP that says: Yes, good idea, but at some point at the end of the reign period, we will do that! – So it was told us in 2017, nothing has happened to this day. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] It is a pity that this request does not find a majority here today. I take note of that. The best way to do this is to increase the salary for the public service between 2.91 and 3.22 percent. That, you can say, is all right. Of course, it should always be a little more, Mr Vice-Chancellor, but in principle it was already in the Committee's approach when you said that you already agreed to the public service. I would like to make a brief comment on my request: ==References== July, Mr Hammer, once again, has looked very well. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== Introduce Service-Novelle. Where's the introduction, colleague Hammer? [[Abg. Deimek: He's just a little country official!]] A rejection – and you are here, Mr Hammer, and are making fun of the public servants?- Oh, my God! Nothing else did you do with the refusal of the inclusion of allowances and additional fees in the basic reference. The increase is, as has already been said, all right. Nevertheless, one must know that all the top representatives of this Republic, so we all, benefit from this conclusion. Among the representatives are the Federal President, the Federal Chancellor, the Deputy Chancellor, the President of the National Council, the Federal Ministers, the President of the Court of Auditors, the State Secretary, the Second and Third President of the National Council, the National Council club officers, the Volksanwälte, the National Council members, the President of the Federal Council, and they all also benefit from this actually passive increase. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I can only say: We make this request because we believe that now, in the crisis, in this corona crisis, it is all the more important - - - Mr Hammer is yelling again, but in this crisis, in small and medium-sized enterprises, economic operators and the working population in short-time fear of their existence, fear of their job, it is not to be seen that we are also granting this increase here. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Every year!]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Every year!]] I think that as a good example, it would be very important once again. Mr Hammer is already sitting with the poor, he's already shutting down. It's quite clear what's going to come out again, nothing, just like the Novelle Service Law. It is important for us that we put forward this motion for a resolution and hope for broad approval. - Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[13:22]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e11687	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Mag.a Eva Blimlinger has been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e11714	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I am delighted that on average 3 percent increase has been decided for officials. It is true that inflation is generally remunerated. Mr Lausch said it could always be higher, yes, but it must be said that this is a wonderful degree for officials. However, I would also like to use the debate on this request to congratulate fellow Members Robert Brieger – that was the origin of the request – who started with 1. The EU's military committee will chair on June 20, 2022. My warm congratulation! So that we can really implement this average 3 per cent – 2.91 to 3.02 per cent – I bring an amendment tabled by Mr Hammer, Mr Blimlinger, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Ladies and gentlemen, Amendment No 2085/A by Mr Mag. Michael Hammer, Mag. Eva Blimlinger, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Wage Law 1956, the Contracting Servants Act 1948, the Judge and Public Prosecutors' Service Act, the State Teachers' Service Law, the Land and Forestry Law of the State Teachers' Service Law, the State Contracting Teachers' Law 1966, the Land and Forestry Law of the State Contracting Persons and the Federal Staff Representative Act are amended (2. Service law Novelle 2021), as amended by the Committee's report 1218 of the Supplements. This request has been received by all of you. The list of these service law laws alone – and with this I come to the request of Mr. Lausch – shows how diversified the Federal Civil Service Law is. The idea of calculating additional fees and allowances for the basic relationship has been very long, has been expressed over and over again, but is already problematic in view of the different assessment or the different weighting of additional fees and allowances in themselves; some of the allowances are paid twelve times, the other part fourteen times. So, yes, to a new salary right, which is also being worked on, but it will be a question of having better entry salaries and of increasing basic salaries – I am saying this quite consciously: an inconsistency that has developed in the years since there is a BDG – rather, i.e., to increase basic salaries, also with the perspective of how it behaves with the principle of seniority, the ratio of low entry rates to relatively high exits, I say now. That is what we are working on, and I think we are on a good path to the reform of remuneration. By the way, I am of course still of the opinion that the Windisch-Kaserne should be renamed Richard-Wadani-Kaserne. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[13:26]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e35525	The amendment has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Mag. Gerald Loacker. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e35553	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Appreciate viewers! Of course, what operates here under the Novelle Service Law is the collective contract increase for the public service, which, by the way, has not been completed again in time for the Committee this year, which is why a 44-page amendment proposal in the house, which everyone has certainly studied in detail, is now curtailed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] We know that in recent years public service income has increased more than in the economy. This applies in particular to the 2020 crisis year, because in the economy, of course, short-time work, unemployment, loss of turnover among entrepreneurs, and thus often loss of income. So there would have been some modesty – that has not been the case. This works so badly in the public service, because several factors meet: On the one hand, when negotiating the increase, the biennial jumps are ignored. These beat with an average of slightly more than 1 percent each year. That is, if we decide today to increase 3 percent for the public service, it will have an average increase of 4 percent. You have to get that in the free economy first. Then you have to ask yourself who is negotiating this increase? This does not make the Vice-Chancellor personally, but it does make employees of his house who are themselves in the public service. You can't expect these people to be the enemy of your own money, so they also have an intrinsic interest in an increase as nice as possible – what a surprise! In other words, the employers' representatives from the public service negotiate with employees' representatives from the public service the increase in salary for the public service, which is why such a thing always comes out well. There is another problem: The employer side is never prepared and never goes into the negotiation with his own demands, but wait for what the others bring. So it could be demanded, for example, that, in return for a general increase, the nonsensical day-care system be abolished or that any old-age allowances be reduced. I have always demanded and never received this from the State Secretary Steßl and Duzdar, nor from Vice-Cancellor Strache, nor from Vice-Cancellor Kogler. This topic therefore belongs to professional hands and is handled and negotiated by external experts. I'm thinking of self-employed business consultants, organisational developers, personnel experts. They may be represented as representatives of the taxpayers and taxpayers form a professional counterpart to the trade union public service, because the ministry cannot prove that.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e35601	The word is now Mag.a Romana Deckenbacher. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e35625	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Dear Seers! Public service can also crisis, we have seen this clearly after almost two years of pandemic. This is due in particular to the great commitment of colleagues: colleagues in the police, the Federal Army, the Justice Department, the Financial Offices, the Schools, the Hospitals, the Hospitals, the Administrations, the Chambers and Authorities, the Federal Governments, the Public Building Service, the Labour Market Service, the Land Administrations, the District Headquarters, and much more. All this, ladies and gentlemen, is public service, and the philosopher Konrad Paul Liessmann would say is the reality of the state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen face the challenges every day, work permanently, yes, up to their burden limits and beyond. The appreciation and recognition of these benefits must also be demonstrated in a salary increase, and the trade union public service, including representatives of the countries and municipalities, has succeeded in achieving an average salary increase of 3 percent. With 1.1.2022, salaries for public servants rise between 2.91 and 3.22 percent, and allowances and remunerations are increased by 3 percent. I would also like to express my thanks for the constructive negotiations by the Ministry of Finance and also by the Ministry of Public Service – and, of course, Mr Vice-Chancellor was personally involved in the negotiations. You may not remember the reference pyramid, which was created in 1997, Mr Lausch, because it is for politicians and everyone you mentioned here. These will not, of course, take part in the salary increases negotiated by the trade union. Recommended supplements: In a request, the FPÖ requests that allowances and additional fees be defined as elements of the basic relationship; however, Mr Vice-Chanceller has already made it clear in the Committee that allowances by definition constitute general charges paid for special benefits and specific work expenses in addition to salary. Mr Lausch, I am excited how you will explain to the executive staff, your fellow Members, how all, regardless of overtime done, would be paid equally much and that tax disadvantages can also arise from it – I would remind you that, for example, the risk allowance is tax-free up to 360 euros per month – so less instead of more. [[Abg. Lausch: This is a social package!]] [[Abg. Listen:... a social package!]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Smart]] You can still make your request so many times, it won't make it any better. Never in the history of the Second Republic has the public service been able to demonstrate its reliability, its strength, its competence and its importance as well as in these difficult times. [[It was a surprise to the ÖVP as well as to Mr Lukas Hammer and Mr Ribo.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] The colleagues of the public service are a guarantee for the maintenance of public life and for the continued functioning of our beautiful Austria. Yes, that deserves to be thanked, it deserves respect, it deserves recognition and yes, it also deserves a fair salary increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e35700	Mr Mag, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Werner Koglerzu word reported. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e35725	Mr President. Honourable Members! I would like to comment on a number of points, because I was also mentioned: I would like to acknowledge that, in fact, all the political groups here have given a clear sincere thanks and appreciation to the officials of the public service, and I am quite right to say that. It could now be thought that this is always the case, and it is being worked very well every year in many areas of public service, but we know that society as a whole, a lot of workers, but also public officials are facing special challenges and difficulties in the already over a year and a half of the pandemic. I would also like to thank and acknowledge – you can only do it wrong if you add some, but I try to do it anyway – to many groups: in the direct public service, in the outsourced places, which usually follow up these salary negotiations, especially at national level, and so on and so on. We only need police officers, doctors, nurses and nurses, also nurses in the hospital care areas and in other areas and, and to think about what they are doing. Very many depend on this salary. This also includes – thankfully mentioned – those in the classical administration, in the financial sector, also the labour market service and what was done there. I myself was able to take a picture of the AWS – not the AMS, but the AWS – in what a quick and competent way the NPO Fund was first set up there and was also completed that God is grateful and rightly receiving a lot of praise, but there are always servants behind it. I can only recommend to anyone to visit the company once and for all to see how competent – certainly under enormous pressure, and it is certainly not always easy to do all of this – is being worked there. This has, of course, led us – and I am already coming to the nearest – during these salary negotiations. The first thing to add is not to make it clear, Mr Loacker: Of course it is. We had informal rounds of negotiations, we had official rounds of negotiations, but we did not have any rounds of negotiations that would have been significant if I had not been there. Most of the time, Finance Minister Blümel was also present, and yes, last night, because of the emerging government reform, officials or cabinet staff from the Ministry of Finance were also present, because I think that should be – in their sense – represented. However, I have nevertheless led these negotiations. I should like to give you an insight, because, in advance of the Committee, this is not – I was asked there too – because it is impossible to put everything on the table before the public in ongoing negotiations: It's already like that. a certain contradiction is, of course, and that is why the Ministry of Finance is always there, and there has already been a look at the money of the citizens and taxpayers. But this is just a consideration, because we have multiple service providers' interests. On the one hand, of course, we represent the budget, the economy and the economy, but on the other hand we are also employers, especially for those public servants who have rightly praised you all out here. How is the process normal, for there are obviously some misunderstandings? – First of all, the inflation rate is put out of dispute, but it is the year that expired from the autumn quarter to the autumn quarter. In this case, this was just over 2%. But then it's all about, I think, in public service, not losing sight of the other accounts. Why? - Because we don't want to leave the public service behind either. We know that in the future we will have great challenges, especially with pensions, and the payment system and the payment system – which is also a large part of the recognition system – do not have to decouple from the others in public service. According to your logic, Mr Loacker, perhaps we would be there at the end of the day, that in 20 years, although all professional groups there or there once or once less, depending on the inflation and the economic situation, they would have percentage increases, only the public service remains the same. But it will not be possible either. [[Abg. Loacker lifts both arms to the top side with the back of the hand.]] Of course, we are also orientating on the conclusions of the others, which the union is doing on its own, that is clear anyway. There you have to find a balance, and that's exactly what art was this year. Last year it was easy, because everyone, starting with the metallurgists, was sailing along the inflation rate. There has been little experience with the pandemic, with the economic and social uncertainties. If we don't stop for a long time, we're looking at inflation, so we've all done it, including the public service. Today it was a bit more difficult, and yes, we are conscious and also in some way happy – for what else is the whole praise for? – added something to the inflation rate. Apart from: The future inflation is, of course, higher than the lost, we all know, this will be reflected in the next year's salary statement. All those who are financially and economically interested will know inflation forecasts: Inflation will be so high due to various bottlenecks and distortions in world markets and monetary policy that it remains high in these months, until the first quarter, but then it will develop back again. Today, the forecasts of Wifo and IHS are between 2.8 and 3.3 percent for the whole next year; the first three quarters will be a little higher, i.e. they will be shown next year. So we can already assume that the value between 2.1 percent and 3 percent is actually the increase in salary in this sense. We found ourselves with the union there. Of course, the Ministry of Finance – you can say it quietly – and we would have started by taking it down a bit lower, but all in all this is a logical, reasonable and just conclusion. I would like to say something about this – but that is primarily the federal states and the budgetary possibilities there, but also something else – namely: There is, of course, one when it comes to the forces in the hospitals – the doctors, the nurses – or other institutions that are particularly affected. Additional opportunity to do something, because I do not really see it as a fact that we are right to recognise their achievements again and again for a year and a half, but then, when it comes to figures, must, at once, do or should, as if it did not exist. Yes, that's just an average, that's right – we have 3.22 percent for lower incomes, as mentioned, at the top 2.91 percent, and 3 percent is the average above all – but that's no different. This is no different in the salary negotiations, we have to take the group as a whole. However, I am also in favour of the fact that there should be more shades in the long term and on the average. We also hope – I do not want to promise too much, but honourable Member Lausch is certainly right there or there; he is a committed fighter for some groups in the public service, I can see and acknowledge for a long time – that we could do something in the law of employment and remuneration. This would also lead to the second request, which is being negotiated here under one: I see, in my understanding, that this system of supplements, as the name says, is something extra, and in so far as we innovate everything, we ask again the question of differentiation and supplements. The concern, I think, is nevertheless correct for – and that is not so few – cases of hardship in the case of illness or when it comes to adjusting the remuneration accordingly. I would suggest, however, that this belongs in that area, where we are dealing with the scheme structurally, in other words more fundamentally, and not through the system of allowances, because the other characteristics and the other idea have. Finally, I should like to thank Mr Schnedl, the chairman of the Public Service Union, for the very very, very constructive negotiations – I can say that because, contrary to other figures, I was actually there – and Mr Meidlinger, who is the chairman of the Younion. We pulled a few rounds. This was not always as easy as some believe, but at the end it is, and so it is understood here, a reasonable degree in which we – and by the way you, too, as those who create the budget – understand us as an employer, but at the same time, as an employer, we also have responsibility for the public servants. This is, I think, a good balance, and I think it is most of the time seen here – and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e35813	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I shall put the votes to the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Constitutional Committee and continue to complete the agenda. [[13:43:43]] 6. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 2096/A(E) by Mr Christian Lausch, colleagues on the prohibition of discrimination against Covid-19 public-service infections (1220, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e35849	We're coming to 6. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Christian Lausch came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e35882	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We are discussing a negative committee report here. I am referring to the motion for a resolution 2096/A(E) on ‘Discrimination prohibition for Covid-19 public service vaccines’. Why did this request come about? – Because we have seen and I too as a speaker of my party for the public Service has seen that there are different forms of transport in the public service and that each department, each sector, other standards to its staff, is employed by public servants. We have therefore said that it is increasingly discrimination in certain areas. I, who I myself am a public servant, executive, can already tell you that – and this is generally the case – the appreciation of this Federal Government for genes, the so-called 2G rule, is a farce that the genes who have lived through the disease are undervalued and taken too little account of them. Then: I don't understand that after three months – as long as this government recognizes it, no longer – a healer will be spilled with a vaccination obligation, with a forced vaccination – I say so clearly – even though he has antibodies in his blood. Every disease, ladies and gentlemen, has always been said that the disease is the best vaccination. That's what you throw at Corona, like a lot of others, overboard. I therefore understand that the demonstrations – whether they please you or not – include more and more vaccinated persons among the participants who say: We were deceived, because it was said that the vaccination offers over 90 percent protection and with the second vaccination the pandemic is over – we have heard everything today. So the population was deceived, and many would not have been vaccinated under this premise that after the second vaccination the protection was 50 percent. And what you do with the genes is actually a bottomless naughtiness, and this also in public service: You recognize it zero! Give me a good reason why someone who is going to lose blood and has more than 300, 400 antibodies in the blood should be vaccinated! For what? What is he supposed to do for? Just because it wants this federal government because it does not find any other means and ways?- Oh, my God! It's not like you could say: Well, the blues already again, the FPÖ already again!, but in the “standard” – in the “standard”, that is now very independent! – is a nice report on the subject: How good are genes are protected?, printed. It also has experts on this question, and I am not a virologist now, but I believe that as a healer, you are certainly as much protected as any vaccine. Only: Unfortunately, you will not get this recognition from these parties in this House – I have to take all of them into the boat – and it is no longer impossible for the healers to talk so small about this throughout-lived disease and say: You too must have yourselves vaccinated. I think: If anyone has antibodies in blood, what should he do for? For what? And: There will be a lot of mutations. If we constantly lock all three or every four months of Austria or Europe or the world, we will not endure this for long. As has been said, this request has not found a majority in the Committee, and – and this can be done immediately – will not be a majority in the vote today. I'll find it. This is a pity, because at least one should be equal in public service and one should set the same standards and apply the same rules. Unfortunately, this has not happened to God, and that is why there is this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e35930	Irene Neumann-Hartberger is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e35954	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Values Watchers at home in front of the TV screens! The permanent struggle on the part of the FPÖ with all the measures that have been taken up to now is now also known to everyone. Since the masquerade obligation, the testing, the lockdowns, the contact restrictions or the vaccination, you have always found only criticism for all this: too little, too much, too early, too late, and generally all unnecessary, apart from the fact that it is debilitating and restrictive. In the meantime, please, everyone from his own personal environment knows fifty people who have had personal experience with Covid, and the range ranges from only positively tested over severe illness or still struggle with long-term consequences to dead with different stories – unvaccinated, cured, double-vaccinated, with or without pre-conditions – and many variants of stories that ours as laymen often leave only inadvertently behind. But it also needs solutions and decisions, and they are not always popular. But may it also need a little more confidence in science for your part? [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Now to your request, Mr Lausch: They call for a ‘express and binding prohibition of discrimination for Covid-19 public service vaccines’. [[Abg. Listen: Yes, I am!]] They also complain that public service officials in the security field, such as the police, the judiciary and other similar public service professions are particularly much required. [[Abg. That's right!]] – Yes, that’s true, but there are also many other professional groups that have to do a lot in this particular time. [[Abg. Lausch: That's right, too!]] Yes, it is very welcome and responsible that there is already an 80 percent vaccination rate in public service. The prohibition of discrimination, which you, Mr Lausch, have called for, for example, the PCR tests for infections in the public sector, are protection measures and not discrimination, because they are also being tested. [[New call for tender of the Abg. It's funny.]] A distinction to protect health is also justified. That is why there is no discrimination and therefore we will not agree to this request either. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e36027	Mrs Sabine Schatz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e36052	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by expressing my warmest thanks to the employees in the public sector. In addition, it is necessary to establish a system of interconnecting They are now doing very important, very valuable, yes system-related work in the crisis, whether in health, safety, administration or education. That is really very, very important, thanks for your commitment in this very challenging time. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Blimlinger.]] That is why it is particularly important that this area is particularly protected. Ladies and gentlemen, who work in very sensitive, very personal areas with a high risk of infection, must therefore also be protected. Yes, public service is also an example in many areas. Therefore, when it comes to the need for non-vaccination to comply with a test obligation, like any other employee and any other employee in Austria, because the 3G rules apply at the workplace, it is not discrimination, but then it is also the minimum and most necessary to comply with applicable rules and regulations in the public service. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Especially officials in the public service are currently very exposed to their service, we are currently also experiencing this in the many demonstrations and rallys against the corona measures. In particular, it is the police who are first and foremost in contact with mask objectors, with coronal agents, and who are now also affected by violent attacks in these demonstrations. I would like to expressly condemn what is happening there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If it is the FPÖ's concern to improve the conditions for public servants, police officers and police officers, then stop marching along with the extreme of the right, then don't allow violent and violent escalations on your demonstrations! [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the Greens and the Agg. Krisper.]] At this point I would also like to express very clearly my solidarity with the media representatives who are being threatened by violent attacks that are sexually harassed. Every attack on journalists is also an attack on our freedom of the press, which we must not tolerate. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the Greens and the Agg. Krisper.]] I also think it unbearable that, in the event of demonstrations against the corona measures – whether before vaccinations, before hospitals – the health care staff, which has been working on the limit for two years and facing major challenges, is still under threat. That's not portable! I would like to mention a case that is also personal to me: Last Sunday, a national assistant in the care of the elderly was threatened by Coronademonstants in Braunau and was filled with coffee when she found herself on the way to a client in work uniform. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone and everyone in Austria has the right to demonstrate for their interests, but there are clearly borders, and this must not be tolerated! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e36133	Mrs Mag.a Eva Blimlinger is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e36159	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! Of course, public servants are not discriminated against. The occasion was the statement of the rector of the University of Klagenfurt Oliver Vitouch to allow only more than 2G. This is also true because it makes it clear: Attendance lessons can also take place at the universities. – Of course, there is no discrimination. Mr Lausch speaks of different rules. – Of course, different rules apply. In my previous speech, I made this quite clear: It is also regulated differently in the case of different rights of service. What a police officer, a police officer, a teacher, a teacher in the course of the corona pandemic needs, is different from what a person needs in the administration, for example, who has the opportunity to make home office – yes or no. I would like to join with my previous speaker, my colleague, dear. You contribute to the public service, that our colleagues in the public service are being threatened, namely by your – I am sorry to say so – irresponsible, cruel corona policy, not by being prepared, as in most other European countries, for a common strategy, but by making political change, by acting against the vaccination requirement, by acting against all measures – from mask to all other things. I have to tell you: Especially if you speak for the public service, you should really Rethinking their way of doing so, you endanger teachers, police officers, police officers, doctors, health professionals, and you are endangering – that is really the dramatic – the state and you are so to speak endangering democracy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brügl.]] To do this, I have to say: It is quite ridiculous to make a request that there should be a ban on discrimination against unvaccinated people. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Yılmaz.]] I would really like you to change your course with regard to the pandemic in order to protect, above all, the public servants – better to protect than that. You do not do that, you are working against the state and against democracy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] Finally, let me say a word: At this point, I would really like to thank all those who, despite this irresponsible policy of the FPÖ, are willing to provide this service, to suspend at demonstrations persons who are not vaccinated and who do not wear a mask that will put their health at risk for the opponents of the FPÖ; thank you very much! I ask the head of the service to be generous in the rewards. Christmas stands at the door, and it would be good if it was actually rewarded in one form or another. By the way, I still believe that the Windisch-Kaserne should be renamed Richard-Wadani-Kaserne.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e36224	Mr Mag, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Werner Koglerzu word reported. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e36250	Mr President. Honourable Members! I do not want to hide the fact that we have held a very open and constructive and quiet debate on this issue and on the so-called request of Mr Lausch – in those times this debate is worth mentioning – and I would like to follow up there. On the prohibition of discrimination: If there is discrimination, it would be good to step in, but I am trying to find the reason where there could be any discrimination at all, so to speak, to find the problem to which a solution should be put. Discrimination could be something different from public service relations. This can't be found, that's not possible, because it's basically the same rules everywhere in the workplace, and that's 3G – so it can't have anything. It is also a question of whether special arrangements or arrangements are made within the respective departments, because within the public service, not every situation is the same. Especially in judicial guards – that's going to be You know very well, Mr Lausch, that the situation is more difficult, because there are special protective measures by the state, on the one hand for the judicial guard, on the other hand, but of course also for prisoners for whom the state has a duty of care regarding its health integrity and so on. You know that cluster formations are a special problem and unfortunately they have already happened. That is, if the department – in this case it was even the Ministry of Justice – pretends that there is 2.5G to rule there, then it has its logical reason, and that is good. And if the rector of the University in Klagenfurt now thinks that because he can secure it in this way, then it is not a world downfall; and I add to it to establish a next discrimination, but subsequently to exclude it again: Nowhere does it mean 1G, neither private nor public, not even the rector of the University of Klagenfurt, who you have withapostrophic, has said anything of 1G. 2G means: vaccinated or healed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] Now you may be able to argue about the genetic status – what it takes or not – but I do not want to go into it now, because we already have more virologists than federal trainers in football, and I do not know whether you and I, colleague Lausch, are the best virologists at this point. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Smart]] So I can only cut this down once, but 2G is 2G. [[Abg. Lauch: 2G remains...!]] That's what it means. We would now have excluded a third or fourth possibility of discrimination. But what I have already said in the Committee – this is the next point: What I don't understand – I would be on your side – is if there were a mob against the unvaccinated – if there were cases, I would ask you to report them to us in the public service department, we would do so – because now the legal situation is as it is: basically 3G, there or there due to needs 2.5G. By the way, you can – and must be – always serve as an unvaccinated person. If there are cases where some pressure is unjustly exerted or anything else – yes, that would be something else. However, we also have a number of regulations that limit the use of mobile services in the public sector – certainly better than elsewhere. If there were to be violations, then we would be the first to intervene. This is also what I think is relevant, because – and here we come exactly to the debate from before – we have had a heated discussion here: Of course you can be against vaccination, of course! As long as the legal situation is as it is, one must not be vaccinated, neither there nor there. However, workers in general must also comply with the rules on employees and officials in the public service: Then a test has to be submitted. There is no discrimination, however! So all these variants exude. So what happens is very, very reasonable. If this basic rule is violated, please give us the cases. I am interested in the fact that this is not the case in the public service, which should always be a pioneer in the private sector. At this point, I'm on the side of the unvaccinated, even if you're surprised. This can, of course, be quite different in terms of labour law next year. We know what is being debated here in the House, which legislative initiatives are coming. How this affects labour law or whether you are here as a legislator, immediately after the introduction of a general vaccination obligation, to adjust something in labour law, that is another question. Then new rules apply again. However, it is always necessary to prevent discrimination, since I am absolutely right with you, Mobbing, and that should succeed. One last word, because the demonstrations were also addressed: Yes, in fact, it is a problem, I find how the discourse is currently going. Finally, we had a fierce debate, and I would like to clarify this several times again, also on this concept: We should seek and find the commonplace as much as possible, and the separation should not leave us irreconcilable – I quote myself at this point because you are spreading something quite different in the so-called social media. – This remains my statement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] The right to demonstrate is one of the highest goods. In Austria, thanks to God, this is now particularly high. You realize that even in the lockdown demonstrations, even if it is sometimes misused, you do not even adhere to the corona rules – you should do that, but that is another question. But the freedom to express its opinion is also given on the street, as we say. That is exactly what you should recognize, and not spread the opposite – that would also be an offer for reconciliation. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hauser.]] And because we're already on the street: Of course, it is true that very, very many people there – which is also my impression – are concerned, may have fears, at least try to find a way to deal with the whole uncertain situation, and I really understand it – by the way, I do not know how many demonstrations I have been in my life – that is very essential. But – and I repeat that, as I said last time, and then spread it again on your social channels, if you can still say so socially – you must also see clearly, clearly and clearly, what is not tolerant: This is that, too – not only for a long time, not only the majority, but also also – enemies of democracy, political objectors, right-wing extremities and neo-Nazis often wander around at the top. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] This quote remains true, and someone in the Federal Government has to formulate it. Look You are going to start the debate in Germany, where it is all going, and that is waving in! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] It is also a question of glorifying violence and violence, and what we should prevent is that it is going to be staggering. We may not be able to prevent it at all, but we should do something about it. Look at what has already happened in Germany! That is why I am so grateful that the Minister of the Interior has now installed increased protection against media representatives and media houses, i.e. journalistic institutions, because this is obviously already necessary in this country. Mrs Schatz has justifiably mentioned it – I can't say it better, I thank you for it! – because that’s the situation now, as well as attacks on journalists. That's where we hear more cases now. I am taking away the APA today – I have not been able to verify it now, but maybe you believe the APA is still something and the conspiracy theory is not yet so far gone –: Head of State Platter and other members of the government are now under massive threat. – At some point you have to see that the measure is not just full, but that the yeast is over, and we all have a responsibility. Not that it's called afterwards: We're right, we didn't even say anything! [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] That's what it's all about, not about more, but also about less! Otherwise, the whole thing has: Never again!, and otherwise everything doesn't make sense – if we don't look at it from the beginning, see clearly, make it clear, name clearly. In any case, this is the task of the democratic forces in this country, and I hope that we all belong to them. In this sense: Let's look for the common, we'll find a lot! Probably less apart than we believe, and the separation – once again, just because Advent is and Christmas is coming – should not leave us irreconcilable. Thank you very much, because today the debate was quite different.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e36348	Mr Mag. Kassinger. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e36374	Mr President. I refer to the Rules of Procedure, because Mr Vice-Chancellor repeated his statements from the last time and here in plenary again participants of the demonstrations, certain participants – I would now be interested in which certain,ad personam, otherwise, it is a lump-sum condemnation – as – I quote – “State repudiators”, “Democracy Ende”, “Neonazis” and neo-fascists. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer]] Now I'm saying, These are all criminally relevant issues. Then talk to the Minister of the Interior. - Then what are you doing about it? People suing ad personam? – That would be your job! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ries.]] What you're doing is flat-rate convictions. I ask you again: Either you sue those people you list there, or you take this lump-sum conviction back with the expression of regret.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e36421	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I assume that you are still making a request for business treatment so that it was also a word on business treatment. [[Abg. Stögmüller: No, it is not to the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Call the ÖVP: No, it won't!]] An application for business treatment is still being made? [[Call the ÖVP: Nothing falls into his mind...! Don't follow me anymore!]] Are there any further words on this subject? - That's not the case. [[Call the ÖVP: Shame!]] The debate is closed. [[Call the ÖVP: Painful, embarrassing!]] Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the votes on the submissions of the Constitutional Committee. [[14:10:47]] Vote on agenda items 4 to 6
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e36492	We shall now come to the vote moved on the reports of the Constitutional Committee, which I shall make separately on each item on the agenda. Is there a desire for interruption before we enter the voting process? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft concerning 2. Service law Novelle 2021 in 1218 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Michael Hammer, Mag. Blimlinger, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Michael Hammer, Mag. Blimlinger, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Articles 2, 3, 4, 5, 7 and 8. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This too is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Christian Lausch, colleagues on the 'Nulllaan round for top politicians in the Corona crisis'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 1219 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 1220 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[14:13:06]] 7. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (1171, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law, which includes the School Organisation Act, the School Teaching Act, the School Teaching Act for Professionals, Colleges and Preparation Courses, the School Time Act 1985, the compulsory school maintenance Basic Law, the Federal Agricultural and Forestry School Act, the compulsory school law 1985, the Higher Education Act 2005 and the 2. COVID-19-School Act amended (1245 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e36612	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Petra Voorswinkler has come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e36642	Mr President! Minister! Dear High House! Dear Seers! We will not agree to this template, the collection oven, for the following reasons: On the one hand, the summer school in the present form is not pedagogical, because from the practice of school, I can tell that to catch up with missing children a time of two weeks in a group of different children with different levels of performance, nor in the context of a project education, is really not targeting. Even with a lot of experience you need a few days to see where the children stand, what they need, and then the two weeks are around. So to pick up a missing person, it's really not targeting. To this end, it has not yet been explained whether and how teaching students are accompanied professionally, for scientific findings from the Chamber of Labour show that the sole use of non-tested teachers achieves only minimal success – contrary to those of approved teachers. The ÖH also criticises that learning success will remain low during this period. There will probably be the only advantage for the students who can catch up with the lack of practical time in the pandemic period. There are best-practice examples – all-day, educationally meaningful and evaluated – from Vienna, and there is the question of why such models are not taken over – on the one hand probably because they come from the opposition, and on the other hand probably because they do not want to make the money available. Secondly, for basic digital education as a subject of obligation: It is not quite clear what will be done with it. From our point of view, there are no curriculum yet, and it seems to be a cosmetic measure to complement the roll-out of the digital terminals for this school level. On the third point, school-try training course for elementary pedagogy in the framework of the technical school: This is a good idea, but there is not yet a professional view of it, and the question is: Are graduates employed as helpers? For that, three years of training are then a little much. From ÖVP and Greens only individual pilot projects, which neither improve quality nor offer sustainable solutions, come again and again. In this form, this simply does not help with the massive problems, neither in elementary education nor in schools, nor against the lack of educators. The motto here is always: The main thing is, it doesn't cost anything. We have made several proposals that are not even heard. We will therefore not agree to these half-hearted statements. Finally, I can thank all the educators for their commitment in this difficult time and wish them and all the students and also the parents a relaxing, peaceful holidays and all of us here a better year than it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e36687	Magnificence comes to the fore. Dr. Rudolf Taschner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e36712	Mr President. High house! Mrs Vorderwinkler, your arguments in honour: I believe that the summer school is still a program that is accepted by the parents and the children with some joy, which is a supplement. There is certainly a need for improvement, we will take this up, and the criticism of teachers will also be taken up. All this is work in progress. I should also like to speak in another area of this agenda, which is home schooling. I must admit that I knew that we do not have compulsory education in Austria, but that there is the possibility of domestic teaching in this way, was quite surprising for me, and that it was now used more strongly than before, even Corona may be due. Interestingly, domestic teaching is something that the state grants to citizens as freedom when they say they want to teach the children themselves. This is a liberal element, if you want to say so, which we should not appreciate so little if it is carried out well. The difficulty is that you really do it well. You may know, Pascal had domestic lessons. His father had forgotten that he should also teach him in mathematics, but that did not cause any harm to the young boy. He has just learned it himself and read it independently. Mozart had domestic lessons. That was reasonable at the time, because there were no schools at the time, as we now know them. The schools were usually schools led by the church, and there may not have been such a bad idea for Father Mozart to conduct domestic teaching. The father was then very upset when the Bub – in Venice, I think, it was – had experienced a different lesson from Martini, and noticed that his own lessons he had taught might not be the optimal one at all. This is the great difficulty of home teaching: parents really want them to say: Yes, I may not do it quite! – You have to consider that, of course. Home schooling is a risk in itself, and I think we have really shown this in this draft without giving home lessons ourselves a rejection, which would not be so good at all by saying: There's trouble, and we'll help you out of these if you're in trouble. In reality, of course, there is the school as – how should I say? – the alternative of choice, because in school, what parents can be so difficult to do, namely to bring out, so to speak, from the self-indebted oblivion, so the Kant called. The introduction of self-indebted indebtedness is much, much easier in an area outside the parents' home. This is an essential point of school at all: the departure from the self-indebted unmistakableness – and to be amusing, Odo Marquard said, means loneliness: that one can stand alone and form one's own thoughts. This is much harder to implement in domestic school than in school, because you just stay in the family community. School is really the means of choice. We have good schools! When parents say: I prefer the home lessons because I always hear that the schools are so bad!, then they hear that from the wrong side. Sometimes it's announced by some parties that our schools are grotto bad. – They are not, even if the club women of opposition parties say. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] They're not! In our schools, good teachers teach. This is the essential point of schools, and everything else is just an update. We have really dedicated and competent teachers, and they ensure that we have a good school and that we really only need home lessons in a very small setting, if at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e36769	The next speaker was Mr Hermann Brückl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e36790	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Minister! High house! As has already been said, with this initiative to bring the summer schools into our school law, so to speak, with this law. This is basically positive. We also think it is very good that you do this now, especially we are very positive that you have also taken over a demand from us: We have been working to ensure that those teaching students who are used there are paid for their performance accordingly. However, what we lack in the summer school is the offer to those students who are better gifted or who are perhaps even highly talented, because the focus – as far as the summer school is concerned – is to strengthen the language awareness in the teaching language German in the areas of reading, writing, listening understanding and speaking as well as the acquisition of basic mathematical skills. What offer, Mr Minister, is there for those students, are there for those children and young people who are average in their performance, who are good or who are perhaps better? It's gonna have to be improved, and we also say that you have to improve it. In addition, as far as this bill is concerned, I wonder why, in a paper on which it is actually about the school organisation law, one changes to the 2nd. COVID-19 high school laws packed in. – That has basically not lost anything. To conclude: For us, it is not understandable, it has already been mentioned why there is a greater need for domestic education and home schooling. This is completely unnecessary, and that is what we decided a few weeks ago on an all-party request, which says: We set out the reasons why parents unsubscribe their children from teaching. – That was decided unanimously. There is no basis for making such an approach. It is not evidence-based that such regulations and restrictions are now being made in this area. We will not agree to this proposal, although we see the summer school in principle positive, because it is precisely for parents who are concerned about their own children that these regulations are tightened.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e36833	Mrs Mag. Sibylle Hamann. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e36857	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. We have a renewal in front of us, which makes me really happy, because it immediately brings several innovations to the ground, which have been accelerated by the crisis. – I will only take two of them out of here. The first is the summer school. She's a child of Corona, and she's come to stay. I'm sure the point will come that we don't want to miss them anymore. The summer school will establish itself as a permanent institution, both for younger children who are getting used to in school in the last two weeks, and for older students who want to prepare themselves for a change of school, for an examination, for a competition. This is a low-end free offer for all who want to. She is also there for the teachers – almost as a kind of soft opening into the new school year – and she is there for students who have the opportunity to acquire practice in a concentrated form and to work on their own responsibility and design. I am firmly convinced that soon we will not be able to imagine that the school was actually to be throughout the summer, even during the last two weeks of the holidays, and I believe that it will also be those who reject this request today. Second point, home schoolers, children who were enrolled from school: In the sense of responsibility and common social responsibility, we will look more closely at what is happening to these children. Who's teaching her? How are they? – For this purpose, we have planned a reflection discussion at the school where a little bit of progress is being made on how children are doing, combined with an invitation, but return to school if it does not work at home. In conjunction with this, there will be guidelines for externalist examinations, including for other children who, for example, go to free schools and also have to carry out externalist examinations; for these too, there will be more clarity and security in the form of these guidelines in the future. That'll be good for everyone. I am firmly convinced that we must not lose a child in this crisis, even if it is a child of vaccines or political objectors. I think we owe it to all these children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e36902	Magnificence comes to the fore. Martina Künsberg Sarre. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e36927	Mr President. Minister! High house! Yes, we have not made the decision easy in this government template; it again covers various issues, and that is why we are there for a separate vote. I'll start at the summer school: We are quite clear for a summer school, but if, then, for a well-made, right summer school that addresses the needs of the people – from children, from educators and educators and from parents. Now that your babysitting chancellor is no longer there, you would have had the great chance to introduce something really big. You could have introduced a large-scale summer school, which is an overall package that includes care, leisure, fun and education, and not just a summer school that ends at lunchtime, because it passes through the needs of the people – the children and especially the parents. You could have done something really big. They could have put an end to the flickwork of the various responsibilities and created an attractive offer that all children and young people would like to go there. We reject that. It is certainly well meant by you, but it is, as Mr Tashner said, another work in progress. For basic digital education: Unfortunately, we do not know much about this, and it is a great advance of confidence on our part that we agree because we believe quite clearly that digital education is important for students that this is a step in the right direction, and we hope that you will do something about it. Just a short while to home schooling: We agree that we support this because we also believe that it is going in the right direction. I would also like to point out, however, that what Mr Brückl has mentioned is that the last time we have decided together is not yet there. I expect it very strongly and will ask – because this initiative has also come from us – that findings from this study may still be included in your further reflections. Finally, it is about the welfare and education of our children, and that should be the focus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e36967	President. — The debate is closed. - Here you go, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e36991	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to address here also a short time ago a government paper covering several important innovations in various areas of education and in a total of nine laws. Let me focus on a few points: Today's government proposal will lead to the transfer of a very important school attempt to the general school system. The training course for elementary pedagogy now allows graduates of the technical school for pedagogical assistants to continue to qualify for elementary pedagogical education. This will allow more qualified staff to be trained in elementary educational institutions. One of my main points, however, concerns the further development of basic digital education. This is now provided as a compulsory item, which will also be reflected in a change in the hourly table. In the context of the entire initiative to the digital school, it is an essential step that students will now actively address the issue of digitalisation in the classroom. This legal anchorage provides the basis for appropriate design of the curriculum and the teaching materials for this subject matter. I think this is an important step because, with legal anchoring, we also make an important contribution to the fact that children can actually actively gain digital sovereignty. It is not about learning computer science and programming or dealing with computers, but really about preparing them for a life in a digitalized world that is simply ours, that they receive the social skills and that they are aware of the opportunities and dangers of this whole system. We also need a corresponding anchorage in the school. It will also ensure that the younger people will really go well into a fulfilled future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It is clear to me, of course, that it is not done with the contents and this law, but it also needs additional well-trained teachers. The Federal Ministry has already launched comprehensive initiatives: already by means of massive Open Online Courses, through offers in the continuing and continuing training of teachers, in order to make teachers in this important field fit for the future. Another important area has already been addressed several times, namely the summer school. I think the summer school is a very, very important step towards providing children with more funding lessons. It is not only intended for students with disabilities in performance, but it is intended to benefit those who are able to do so and those who are able to do so. It is therefore quite broader than it has been mentioned here in part. The courses in the secondary and higher schools are also intended to prepare for the 9th. School level in connection with a school change can be used, which I consider to be very important in order to give those children better opportunities in a new school. At the beginning of the summer school there will be an acquaintance, and then the teaching will be intermittently thematically focused, centralized and project-oriented. Alternatively, there should be technical and extravagant instruction. The focus is on strengthening language awareness in German in the fields of reading, writing, hearing understanding and speaking, but also on acquiring basic mathematical skills. In secondary schools and schools, at the end of the two-week summer school, the pupils should present those projects at which they have worked during the two weeks within the framework of the holistic approach. So you see, we have a lot of plans. With the anchoring of the summer school in the regular school system, an important step is taken to the best possible promotion of all students. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I would like to thank you for your support for this project, but I would also like to thank all teachers, all staff in the school administration at all levels that are all too often forgotten, for all pupils and also for all parents. It wasn't a simple year, it's also very well known to me as a family father. That is why I would like to thank you all the more for everything you have done for your children this year, but also for our entire education and our common good. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e37061	It is now possible to speak. Romana Deckenbacher. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e37085	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Seers! Distance learning, Home schooling, Digitalization, Summer school: These are all terms that are related to measures that allowed school to function in the pandemic and which must now be further developed with the present collectionovelle. For example, the summer school is transferred to Austrian school law, and the digital primary education becomes a compulsory subject. I would like to comment more precisely and precisely on a subject that has been very busy with us since the beginning of the school year 2021/22, namely the rise in registrations for home schooling. I would like to remind you briefly that in Austria we do not have a school, but rather a teaching requirement, so it is also possible for children to be taught at home or at private schools without public law. Yes, this is also the right way for many, but at this point I would like to remind you of one thing: I am deeply convinced that children need children, that school is more than pure knowledge, that school is a place of innovation, creativity, a place where challenges and conflicts can be dealt with – and indeed, a place where friendships are made, friendships often for a whole life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the last meeting of the Teaching Committee, we agreed that further legal frameworks and measures are necessary in order for students to be able to provide proof of performance in the home schooling. We owe it to these children too. But there is also a need to raise awareness among parents, for they need to know what it means to report to their children for home schooling. An equivalent education must be guaranteed, so it is also important to know who is teaching the child at home. These children must carry out an externalist examination. This is to be done in accordance with a comparable standard throughout Austria. And yes, so-called audit tourism will also be undermined by clearer rules. The purpose of a reflection discussion is to give information to those entitled to the education and their children on the level of performance and development in domestic education. Yeah, the pandemic's asking us all. However, it continues to call for rapid action at our schools so that it is possible to continue doing great work at all schools in Austria, in all school types and in all schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e37127	Elisabeth Feichtinger is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e37149	Mr President. Minister! High house! Dear Seers! The collection ovens cover many important points. I am particularly interested in looking more closely at the topic of the transfer of the summer school to Austrian school law. The summer school – as my colleague forerwinkler has already said – is actually not fish and not meat, if you can say so. There are 40 lessons in two weeks, which can be completed in the course of a care offer. The primary objective is to promote the subject matter of duty, but it is not differentiated. There are the integrative situations in which one has to see that one takes the children. As a special school teacher, I know what I am talking about, because it is important to take along even these children or children from remote families who simply do not have the background. A topic which I am also currently a mother in rural areas. Space or what I think about is the topic of the cross-school summer schools. How are the children to get anywhere? Especially in rural areas, we definitely do not have a public infrastructure anywhere that would make it possible without Mom or Dad getting into the car and taking the children there, or there are longer driving times. It's also important to think about it. But what is still very important to me personally is that the teaching students are treated exactly the same as the teachers, for they provide the same services, they have the same responsibility, but do not get the appropriate support and also the supervision needed in these times when the children come back from the corona quarantine. The situation at home is often very strenuous, and I believe that it also needs support for these students, so we believe that we cannot agree to this. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Summer schools are, in principle, a good support, but they are still incredibly expandable as to what we have already mentioned. In order for everyone to really benefit from it, major changes are still necessary. – Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, accept our amendments for the benefit of all children!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e37192	Mrs MMMag came to speak. Gertraud Salzmann. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e37216	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters at home in front of the screens! Yes, with this new school law in place today, we show one again. Very clear, ladies and gentlemen: We place a strong focus on education, because education is the key to the future. This novel shows this very clearly. The amendment has been prepared by your predecessor, and therefore I would also like to expressly thank Minister Fäsmann from this point of view for the really very, very good cooperation over four years. I would like us to continue this good cooperation with you together, and I am very glad that this will work well. Now on the content of this new school law: I would like to take three points; on the one hand, the summer school. Ladies and gentlemen! The summer school has been used in the last year, 2020, as a result of corona to pick up the leftovers that have naturally arisen in the corona months. 22 500 pupils in Austria have used this offer. I got an impression and attended summer schools, talked to the teachers, talked to the teachers and also to the children, and I received very positive feedback and gained very positive impressions. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We now transfer this summer school as an offer – voluntarily for the students, voluntarily but also for teachers – to the general system. Today, there has already been an expansion to 37,000 students. I am sure that this offer will also be very useful in the last two weeks of the summer holidays: on the one hand, to deepen the curriculum content in order to catch up on learning residues, on the other hand, but also to prepare for a transition to another type of school or to prepare for final exams. Dear colleague Brückl of the FPÖ, you mentioned the promotion of the powerful students: This is also a great concern for us and this also has place in the summer school. In conclusion: I am very pleased that the summer school will be transferred to the regular operation. I am very pleased, however, that we are now introducing the field of digital basic education in the sub-level; in addition to the hourboard that is now in place, we are introducing 4 hours. That's great, and it's a milestone that accompanies the digitalization offensive in our schools. We started this year with the roll-out of the tablets and notebooks to the 10- and 11-year-olds, we will further expand this, and the digital basics will facilitate this. I would like to thank all teachers, all colleagues in the school administration, all parents and especially the pupils from this point of view once again. In view of the next week: I wish you all relaxing and blessed Christmas holidays. I very much hope that after Christmas we can start again in open schools. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e37271	Mrs Mag.a Dr.in Maria Theresia Niss. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e37292	Mr President. Dear Minister! High house! Dear Seers! Do you know what 1946 was? – 1946 the first fully functional computer with the beautiful name Eniac was introduced. He was programmed by six women. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Women were the dominant gender in the IT industry in the 1950s and 1950s, they were so-called natural talents. Why do I say that now? – I am saying this now, because if we look at the IT industry or also at the university studies today, we see that unfortunately, both the number of students there and the number of graduates is particularly low. We speak of about 20 percent and at the technical universities even of only 10 to 12 percent. I believe that the duty of digital basic education, which we want to introduce with this collection oven, can really be a game changer, because girls are just as well not less gifted IT, but they are simply not self-confident enough or do not have the enthusiasm for this area yet. We have also seen, for example, that girls, when the whole thing was still an optional subject, simply did not sign up. But the subject of duty now inevitably brings the girls into contact with the field of IT and digital basic skills. Of course, we hope that the enthusiasm for this area, the enthusiasm for IT, will be awakened by the enthusiasm for digitization. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Hamann and Mr Litschauer on his work.]] With this introduction, we want to deal specifically with the shortage of skilled workers in this area. By 2025, we will have to occupy 29 000 additional open positions in the IT sector. Not only is the fight against the shortage of skilled workers an important reason for the introduction of this duty, but – and we have already heard this today – the digital basic skills are in principle very important for the mastering of life in this more complex world. After all, digital basic skills are also among the eight key competences established by the European Parliament, and are thus just as important as mother tongue competence, such as social competence or entrepreneurial competence. On the one hand, we refer to programming itself, the development of simple algorithms, on the other hand, of such important things as media competence, fakenews, handling of digital information, but also a basic understanding of how to handle data and information in principle. I therefore believe that it is very important that these topics should really be dealt with systematically, in the form of a compulsory subject in secondary school I 1 hour a week – systematically, professionally, through trained teachers and teachers, as well as bindingly. That means it's a matter of duty and it's also noted. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Hamann.]] I am glad that, with the introduction of the digital basic education requirement, we are giving children on the one hand these important competences that prepare them for a self-fulfilled life, but also that we will have more careers in the future, especially of women in the IT field. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e37355	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the negotiations on the presentation of the teaching committee and proceed in the completion of the agenda. [[14:48:56]] 8. Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment No 2055/A(E) by Mr Petra Fürderwinkler, Members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. (1246 d.a.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Education on amendment 2098/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Hauser, colleagues on no masquerade pressure in class (1247 d.b.) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment No 2103/A(E) by Mr Hermann Brückl, Mr MA, Mr Enrights, on additional budget for support measures for the recovery of learning residues caused by school closures (1248, e.g.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment No 2117/A(E) by Mr Hermann Brückl, MA, colleagues on the end of the ‘School open’/ ‘School policy’ at the back of pupils and teachers (1249, e.g.) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Education on amendment 1390/A(E) by Mr Mag. Martina Künsberg Sarre, colleagues on Failed Digital Didactic Education and Training for Teachers (1250 d.b.) 13. Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment 1633/A(E) by Mrs Katharina Kucharovich, colleagues on comprehensive and low-level digital skills courses (1251, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e37456	We now come to points 8 to 13 of the agenda, on which the debates will be conducted under one; I refer to the agenda for each Committee report. There was no oral reporting. Melanie Erasim has been reported to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e37483	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Values Advisors! Mr Federal Minister, please do not repeat the mistakes of your predecessors, but also Your current government colleagues! You could imagine yourself briefly at the last meeting of the Committee on Education, almost as your first political action, but I have unfortunately not noticed any new style of voting. I would ask you not to forget the fundamental government policy, so you could declare the reluctance and reluctance care on the part of the ÖVP and also the green party here, which is being made to discuss only in order not to have to discuss any unpleasant issues here in the High House – if there were really a lot in the field of education, more than ever, starting with kindergartens up to the university, but also the apprenticeship training and the topic of lifelong learning. I spoke of mistakes in the first place, and I see the rejection of the request for ‘reimbursement of school-torn funds’ by the government parties as such errors. For the explanation: This fund took part in the cancellation costs of cancelled multi-day school events in order to relieve schools and, above all, those entitled to education from the costs incurred. They reject the continuation with lapidar reasons and a smile on the lips, and this shows me a certain apprehension and that you simply can't imagine that saving money for multi-day travel is a real challenge for families. This is exactly how Federal Minister Köstinger does it in the tourism and gastro sector, just as the former Federal Minister Blümel did: First run out of the hardening fund and then, when the house is already in flames, quickly repair something! I say it again and again from this point: The pandemic and its major inconveniences, of which we would all wish they had long been in the past, will remain ours for a long time. Please stop with false promises! Fear the parents at least in this small part of the area! And accept the outstretched hands of the opposition when it comes to deciding reasonable laws! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e37528	The next speaker is Mr Nico Marchetti. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e37553	Mr President. Dear Minister of Education! Ladies and gentlemen. I believe that what is most important in the school field regarding the corona pandemic is trust. And trust is brought to you, I think, only if you work objectively and together on solutions. I think we have done this in many points in the school sector. Let's take a look at this! In the first lockdown it was only for those for whom it was necessary to open the school for care, in the current lockdown the school for teaching was open – with a tight test system, with air filters in rooms that cannot be ventilated, according to a proposal – for example – the NEOS. We have always tried very constructively to find a good solution. We certainly did not succeed perfectly, but in some respects the criticism is certainly justified, but it is us, I believe, not badly successful. At present the schools are open to holding was also the right decision. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It was also important to us – and this is also a point that has always come from the opposition – to support children and young people when they have problems with this situation they need to talk about. We have introduced a uniform hotline for school psychology – there was no such thing before. We have also increased the number of school psychologists. It was also very, very important for us to respond and provide assistance. I am quite proud of that, honestly, even though I know that it is not enough that we must continue to work on it. Fair enough, but I think it was a good first step and in this direction it must continue. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Hamann.]] To the school grant fund: I think that was a right measure at the time, but now it is not adequate. Why? – Because even now many solutions have been found with the industry, because even bookings are made with a certain perspective and because many companies also offer free cancellations, with no cancellation costs at all at all. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] I think it would be completely disproportionate because it is now time for tax money to be poured in, because the solutions that companies have found with schools are entirely sufficient. You don't have to spend money everywhere where it may not be necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The last point that has always come from the FPÖ regarding the masks: Yes, we also discussed this in committee. In practice, for example, a mask requirement in sports education is difficult to implement. These are things that we need to talk about, but in principle, the mask is a very low-sleep effective way to control the spread of the virus. I think it's much better to put on the mask than to shut down schools. We do not therefore agree with this measure, but I believe that the package as a whole does not work badly with all the proposals made by the different political groups, with all the lessons we have made over the last two years. We are now in a mode with experience and a set of measures, where we can say that it does not work badly, not perfectly, but not badly, and we can trust that it will continue to work well with the new Minister of Education in this form and that the schools will remain open whatever happens. That is really what we all want politically.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e37622	Mr Hermann Brückl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e37643	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! For almost two years now we have been living with Corona, we are living with a pandemic that overshadows everything, and in the course of this pandemic we have made many applications, especially in the field of education, because this was necessary. It was necessary because the Federal Government did not do anything, almost nothing more: School on school was one of the topics; School chaos in general – Austria is one of those countries with most school closing days; Mask pressure in school because it just addressed my previous speaker. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, to present you here and speak with a mask, just as teachers and students must do this in class! Mask in sport – that can't be! Mask in class – can't be! That can't be and can't be! It shows itself and it is now also manifesting the failure of this federal government in an incredible way: As we know today, we now have what should be avoided: the so-called triage. We have the triage at the child and youth psychiatry at the Kepler University Hospital Linz. There young patients, young patients with eating disorders can no longer be included due to the overload. All in all, we have 70 000 young people for whom we do not have the opportunity to offer them therapies for which we do not have the capacity. And then the Schallenbergs, the Koglers and the Blimlingers, and how they all are called here in this world, tell us that we are the enemies of democracy, and tell us that we are the ones to blame. You're trying to put the blame on us for your own failure! By the way, this applies to all areas, because the only thing that this Federal Government can resist here is the so-called vaccination. And if Constitutional Minister Edtstadler judges people here: The vaccination is the way out of the pandemic!, I must say: Yes, that's exactly how one sees Portugal with a vaccination rate of well over 90 percent, which is just in the next lockdown. By the way, I ask: How does a lawyer come to tell people what is good for their health? And I also ask: Why has this government not even taken other measures? Why has it not been tried to take other measures? – No additional staff, no additional investment in health and care infrastructure over the past two years, I don't want to talk about extra intensive beds anymore. What about medical treatment? What about the recognition of antibody tests? What about education, advice, support and help for people when they are sick? The only thing these people have is a phone number, they can call 1450 and then they say: Yes, please leave, stay at home!, but help there is none. It's not crisis management. And if this government continues to squander, I'll tell you, the next lockdown is already at the door.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e37689	Next speaker is Mag.a Sibylle Hamann. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e37713	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to report on the rejection of a number of other requests in the committee, namely rejection for various reasons: because they have been done, because they are obsolete or because, even the best of all possible reasons, they have been fulfilled or even overcrowded. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] A few examples: A FPÖ application calls for a framework for presence education. – Yes, well, we do that with the safety net of tests and masks if necessary, so that present lessons can take place. At the same time, however, in another request to demand the end of the mask obligation does not make any real sense in this respect, because anyone who wants open schools needs a safety net for open schools, and there are masks if necessary simply included. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brügl.]] Another request calls for sufficient budget to be made available for additional funding hours. – Yes, of course that is necessary and of course we do. 250 million euros in the last school year, 65 million euros in the current one. These amounts have so far only been used up to 50 to 60 percent, because the schools cannot spend so much money at the moment. That means that there is more budget there than can be spent, and of course this will continue to be available, because the children of course need additional funding hours. There were still applications for digitization. You also run open doors with us, of course. The NEOS are right if they believe in the reasons for their request, in 2018 the teachers in Austria felt totally unprepared for digital teaching. – Perfecting correctly, but one cannot overlook what has been done in this field since then and of course has also been accelerated by Corona. Some of the measures and programmes have already been mentioned: the Digi Komp programme, then the Mooc courses that have been visited in Corona times by Zig thousands, the digitalisation plan for schools, with all those participating in the device offensive also having to present a plan for the training of teachers. 93 percent of schools participate in this programme. The next stage is now the basic digital education as a compulsory subject also in conjunction with a teaching degree in this regard. Of course, we also have compulsory training in the new service law, that is, all that happens, and that is good and right. This leads me to the last request, namely the SPÖ, which calls for 1 per cent of the population to be reached each year with digital training. I just figured this out: That would be 80 000 people a year. This is the best-practice example of Finland. We've been there a long time, far over there. When I think of secondary school I alone, these are already 300,000 pupils, including the entire teachers who are doing training, the students, the AMS courses, and the operational trainings in which digital skills are acquired. We are therefore in a number of cases of what is required in this request, and that is actually a good reason to reject a request. I would suggest that we should set ourselves still more ambitious common goals in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e37767	MEP Künsberg Sarre has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e37789	Mr President. Minister! High house! I would like to take a very brief look at the request of me or of us in relation to ‘compulsory digital didactic training for teachers’. We have already heard about the importance of basic digital education for students. This is a good step in the right direction, but of course it needs not only for students, but also for teachers. It is also natural that the distribution of tablets and laptops for the 5th and 6th. School level is not a digital offensive yet, but it needs a package. There are teachers, too, and we know that the knowledge of teachers in this area varies widely. These are levels that have shown us the corona pandemic very impressively. I am therefore sorry that you reject this request. Mr Weber has justified this in the committee – and you have just said, Mrs Hamann – that the request has long been fulfilled that he would not need it, for such training would already be possible. Yes, of course, there are such trainings and numerous teachers do so too, but, Mrs. Hamann, you have forgotten to say: Of course, there is compulsory training, but there is no mandatory training for digital didactic courses, but there are 15 hours of compulsory training, and if a teacher is interested in it, he can do something in this area – but he does not have to. The fact that there are many teachers who have acquired this in their own initiative and know quite a lot about it is undisputed, but there are also many teachers who have a lot of air up in this area. They always say that it does so many, but let's look at the numbers: The Moocs, I believe, have attended 40 000 teachers, not all of whom have completed. But we have 120,000 teachers. So there is a certain delta that can be filled there. This application does not aim to make all teachers mutate to digitization or IT experts or to programmers – no – but, in our opinion, every teacher should have a certain digital didactic basic knowledge, which is aimed at that. The fact that the ÖVP is not going on here is somehow clear. Your former finance minister obviously didn't even have a laptop, so the digital one is certainly not yours. I am sorry that the Greens do not support this either, because it is simply incomprehensible why you do not trust as a commitment for teachers to introduce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e37834	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Totter, for - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e37855	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Under this item on the agenda, we are debating some of the opposition requests that we rejected in the Committee on Education, and this for good reason. Much of this has already been done and some demands simply do not correspond to the school reality. But now to the individual points: A total of EUR 13 million was spent on the COVID-19 school grant fund, of which around EUR 10 million have already been paid. Schools were given an instrument in good time so that parents and schools would not sit at cancellation costs. The bureaucratic effort in this respect was also small compared to other measures. Another successful measure is the Covid funding hours. We can rely here on the professional work of our colleagues. They implement these measures to the best of their knowledge and conscience in order to achieve the optimal promotion of children and young people. With regard to Mr Brückl's request, I should like to state very clearly and clearly: Except for few exceptions in which individual classes or individual schools were actually closed for a few days, because of the high number of infections, our schools were always open during the pandemic, at least for the care of the children and for those who needed support in learning. [[Abg. Brügl:... OECD!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brückl: That's not true!]] - That's right. Teaching has always taken place, either locally or in presence. [[Abg. Brückl: Is incredible!]] I would like to thank you very much for the high flexibility of the teachers and the school boards involved, and for the great commitment to this point. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Let me give you another thought. The opposition parties have repeatedly claimed that other countries are better off dealing with the pandemic situation than we are. Denmark is often cited as such in the case of open schools. In fact, however, Denmark is now changing to Distancelearning, because the case numbers are too high. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak]] So Austria is no exception. Of course, teaching in the presence is the best form of teaching, but the particular crisis situation also requires special measures that need to be put in place in order to protect the highest good, namely the health of all in school. [[Abg. Loacker:... mental health...!]] Mr Brückl, when you speak of chaotic conditions, I must say that you have taken part in them through permanent cross-floating, namely by disseminating misinformation regarding vaccination and by constantly working against the measures of this government. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Luke Hammer]] [[New condolences with the ÖVP and the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] In conclusion, I would like to stress two things: the digitalisation offensive and administrative support in the field of compulsory schooling. These two key projects are implemented professionally and quickly by the government of ÖVP and Greens. I would like to thank the former Federal Minister Heinz Fässmann and, at the same time, our new Minister, Martin Polashek, for putting the already mentioned administrative support, which is really a milestone, on sustainable feet to strengthen compulsory schools and thus rural areas. I am looking forward to a good and constructive cooperation, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e37962	Mr Brückl spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e37986	Mr President. As my previous speaker, colleague Totter said that Austria had hardly had any school-leaving days. I'm actually correcting: According to the OECD report, Austria is in the top field in the area of school closure days with nearly 200 school closing days.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e38013	This was, in turn, a political assessment and no correction. Member of Parliament Köchl is now coming up as a speaker. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e38040	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister! The SPÖ cooperates very intensively in the teaching committee. We want to move something together. We have tabled a motion for a resolution on ‘wide-ranging and low-skill courses for digital competence’. – The ÖVP simply doesn’t care about that. At the same time, it is so necessary that people, students, if they can't go to school, at least that is guaranteed and that you do it. The ÖVP always measures two levels at all. I remember exactly: When there was a German Chancellor's core, the ÖVP was constantly reading in the media that this Chancellor was not elected by the people, so new elections were needed. Now there is now the third Federal Chancellor of the ÖVP in this legislative period, and now nobody begins to say from the MPs that there is a need for new elections because the Federal Chancellor is to be legitimated by a election by the people. You have the same fate, too, Minister. They are now coming up with something new and have to be done in schools, which I think is very difficult. That's why I'm looking for you and asking you to do something, especially for the apprentices. I have asked your predecessor whether the 200 million euro funding package for schools is involved in something for the apprentices. – Nothing is planned at all, there is nothing there at all. That is why we also propose that the apprentices, who are also pupils and all the other students up to the universities, should also have the opportunity to take up training and follow-up courses to deal with learning deficits. I'm really trying to tie you up a package so that the apprentices can get better, so you can ensure that in the future there are also people in the craft sector who are so well trained that they can work decently up to 65. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e38073	Mrs Weber is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e38094	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! I now turn to two requests. It is about teacher education and a certain media competence, digital competence. I have already said in committee that these two applications are actually obsolete. Why? – There is already a general training obligation for many teachers. It is also legally written and anchored as such. As early as 2016, a model of digital skills for educators and educators was created. In the autumn of 2019, this program was then revised, re-adjusted, adapted to further developments by competent, well-known experts. It is precisely with this programme that the skills for distance learning and distance learning, which we are now really allowed to get to know, are covered very well. The educators have also proved that they can bring it over. The teaching has not stopped in the pandemic, education has not stopped, but it has continued. A great, great thank you to all the educators for what they have done so far in this difficult phase and, I am convinced, will continue to do in the future. In addition, I would like to mention that there are two Moocs – and that has already been mentioned – in this subject area, in which 25 000 and once 15 000 teachers have participated voluntarily. They have also expressed the importance of developing each teacher and teacher. On the second request: The Federal Ministry has provided a large number of measures to promote media competence in the school sector, but also in adult education, and has also taken appropriate measures. I would just like to mention a few examples of this. There is a cooperation with saferinternet.at, there are the binding exercises, the digital basic education that we will now be reunited into a compulsory subject, there are videos on digital competence with worksheets for teaching, there are competitions for the promotion of active media work in schools, a cooperation with the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Cyberkids project for the student group from eight to twelve years and so on. In the adult sector, there are the Internet options adult education.at, fit4internet.at and so on and so on. So it is very much being offered there, and therefore this request is basically to be considered obsolete. But I would like to take the opportunity to do so now, because it is my last speech this year to thank all my colleagues for the great work this year. I would like to thank the students for understanding the need to accept education under these conditions. They've all done great together. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to wish all students, all colleagues and all staff in school a few quiet, contemplative pre-Christmas days. Beautiful, relaxing and peaceful holidays in the circle of the loved ones and for the year 2022 above all a lot of health and good! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e38140	Mr Hauser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e38161	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) First of all, I should like to make a correction in the context of my speech towards Mr Mag. Totter who meant in our direction that we were going to cross against the vaccination. [[Interlocutory calls to representatives of the ÖVP and Greens.]] – I refer this back and refer to my many scientific speeches here in the Austrian Parliament, even if you do not want to take note of this, and may quote from the open letter to the President of the Austrian Medical Chamber of 150 doctors, led by Univ.-Prof. Dr. Andreas Sönnichsen, as follows. [[Rejoicing with representatives of ÖVP and Greens]] If you do not believe in the Freedom Party, if you already do unscientific, fact-finding policy, then at least listen to the doctors! [[Abg. Lukas Hammer: That's where he has to laugh!]] I quote from this letter – and I recommend to all Austrians who do not agree with this fact-finding policy of this Austrian government and the system parties, look at this letter from which I now quote! –: “The flat-rate declaration of vaccines as “safe” by the medical board, politics and media thus reveals itself as unscientific [...] propaganda.” – No more need it! This is a quote from this letter with the signature of 150 doctors. And then we're going to go on: “The number of adverse reactions reported in the COVID-19 vaccines can only be described as frightening”. You know my speeches! [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: Yes, unfortunately!]] I have pointed this out. What you continue to bring is laughter in our direction, but the people outside know that we are right as a Freedom Party. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the Greens.]] A short time to our request regarding “no masquerade pressure in teaching” Mr. Minister, you are testing the students in the early days, 90 percent of teachers are vaccinated. [[a table entitled “Use of masks in children:” with a following list on the speaker’s desk]] You confirm the opinion of the Freedom Party because you do not believe in the testing and also do not believe in the vaccinations. If you believe in both – what you honestly don't do – you wouldn't have to prescribe a mask as well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] That is yes, please, contradictory! Testing in the early plus mask doesn't make any sense at all. Every one of us who has to pick up a mask for hours knows how difficult it is. There has been a survey since last year – you are always unscientific on the go! – the University of Witten, which at least 25 930 children came to the following conclusion: 60 percent complain about irritability, 53 percent over headaches, 50 percent have concentration difficulties, 49 percent are less happy. You know that, and yet you're gonna prescribe it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] It is impossible to sit with the mask in the classroom and also to work concentrated. Now our children have already experienced a loss of education due to the school closures, and now you put on the mask in addition to testing. I can't! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Let's go. Let's go.]] We regret that you reject our request, but the people outside know that we are right as a Freedom Party. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e38279	Mrs Shetty is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, the word stands with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e38301	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! Let me first perhaps respond briefly to Mr Hauser's contribution. I'd like to make a premise: I don't really think much of such statements as we heard them again and again last week, that the FPÖ has blood on its hands and that they are all fascists. I think you can see things a little more differentiated than black and white. There are also more and more reasonable voices in the FPÖ in connection with Corona, which say: As it goes, it goes in the wrong direction. The problem is – and this is why one is tempted to make such statements – that the loudest voices, such as yours, Mr Hauser, or Mrs Belakovich, are. They keep bretaloreds, come out here to extract horse worms, and claim that more people with vaccination damage are on intensive care stations than people who are suffering from corona. That's the problem, and that's why you have to listen to it. [[We welcome the NEOS, as well as representatives of the ÖVP and Greens.]] On the FPÖ proposals which we are discussing, among other things, among these agenda items: We believe it is a wrong time to talk about the abolition of all measures at schools. Why? We're just falling from the fourth wave to the fifth wave. I think the figures we see in relation to omicron are worrying. For us, it has always been clear – since we are also fundamentally different from the FPÖ –: We want open schools, but open schools must be safe schools. If one says that one wants to keep schools open – that is the absolute priority for us – then one cannot say that all measures must be abolished and that is why we reject these FPÖ requests. I would like to inform you, Minister of Education, that: We broke the fourth wave without closing the schools. I'd like to keep track of this, this went without closing the schools. I would also like to express my express thanks to Minister Fässmann at this point. I would also like to say self-critically that we have often misestimated this. He was a reliable partner in the Federal Government and he can sometimes be thanked for keeping the schools open. An explicit thanks to the former Minister Fässmann! [[We welcome the NEOS, as well as representatives of the ÖVP and Greens.]] I would like to ask the new Minister that you will always have in mind the well-being of children in the future waves and the future measures and that school closures are really the absolute Ultima ratio and should not be done. In education policy, the main focus should always be on the well-being of pupils, and we therefore find it wrong that the school grant fund is not extended. So far, he was able to ensure that without planning care sports weeks, skiing weeks or a Vienna week could be planned. From the point of view of the students, we consider that these funds are now being turned off as not positive. I would perhaps like to take a brief look at the argument made by Mrs Hamann, which is already to be classified in the category Skurril. It says that the school grant is rather an economic aid and not an educational measure. – Mrs Hamann, this is especially absurd, because Turquoise and Green are so committed to increasing the budget in the field of education, but the increase in the educational budget is due exclusively to expenditure on masks, disinfectants and tests. That's why it's a little ridiculous to argue that way. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In summary, we want a normal school business as possible. We want to make school events as possible. We want the youth not to be robbed of their future, their youth. That's all we're asking for, and I don't think that's too much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e38367	Mrs Lindner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e38388	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This debate can be summarized very briefly: The opposition proposes how we can finally combat these disastrous consequences of the pandemic in our schools, and the government says no. There seems to be no solution-competence, no matter what proposal it is proposed: school-torno-funds, the recovery of learning residues through school closures, or finally planning security for our students, teachers and parents. The government says: No, we've got everything under control. The last one and a half years have shown, only one thing is and remains safe at our schools: The Federal Government is surprised by every new development of the pandemic and de facto has no answers to it. Let me say quite clearly: Our students deserved something better. On hardly any subject, this total failure is as good as with the psychological burden on our children and young people. Permanent school closures, absolutely no planning and more stress: All of this causes a wave of mental strains that our youth is allowed to escape. As early as March, we have seen where all this leads: The Danube-Uni Krems has found that 55 percent of students experience depressive episodes. About half suffered from fears, a quarter had sleep disorders, 16 percent had suicidal thoughts due to the pandemic. 16 percent! The only response of the Federal Government was for months that the Minister of Education and Health has assigned each other the responsibility. Even the large announced 15 million euros for the psychological care of children, young people and pupils were no more than a headline, for no money has been paid to this day. Announced in July, paid out only in 2022. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the Federal Government has not invested an additional cent in the mental health of our youngest. This is not just a joke, it is simply a total failure, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: That's not true at all!]] Even with these 15 million euros, not even a cent is planned for urgently needed specialists in the child and youth psychiatric system. For those boys who are seriously mentally ill after 20 months of pandemic, the government does not even spend money next year. Don't be angry with me, but if a student prepares for his schoolwork as badly as this government is prepared for the consequences of the pandemic, then he would have picked a spot, right? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[15:28]] [[15:28:50]] Vote on agenda items 7 to 13
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e38432	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote moved on the reports of the Committee on Education, with the vote on each item on the agenda being taken separately. I can ask if we're ready: SPÖ? Green? NEOS? FPÖ? – Thank you very much, then we will vote. Agenda item 7: Draft federal law amending the School Organisation Act, the School Teaching Act, the School Teaching Act for professionals, colleges and preparatory courses and other laws, 1245 of the Supplements. For this there is a desire for a separate vote by Members of the European Parliament. I shall therefore first vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall proceed to the separate vote on a point of order. 1 Z 1, 2, 10, Art. 2 Z 1, 2, 3, 7, Art. 4 Z 3 and 5, Art. 5 C 1 and Art. 6 Z 1 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is also accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen, who also agree to the draft law at third reading, for a sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 1246 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Agenda item 9: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 1247 of the supplements. – This is also accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 1248 of the supplements. – This is accepted by the majority. Agenda item 11: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 1249 of the supplements. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Agenda item 12: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 1250 of the supplements. Whoever does this is asked for a corresponding sign. – This is also accepted by the majority. Agenda item 13: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 1251 of the supplements. Whoever does this is asked for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[15:31:38]] 14. Point Report of the Federal Government's External Policy Committee on the 2020 Foreign and European Policy Report (III-482/1263, D.B.) 15. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (988 e.g._Other Organiser Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Australia, of the other part (1110, e.g.) 16. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Amendment 1101/A(E) by Mrs Petra Bayr, Mr MA MLS, Mr MLS, on the current situation in Ethiopia (1111 a.m.) 17. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment 1204/A(E) by Mr Reinhold Lopatka, Dr Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic, Members and colleagues on the humanitarian situation in Syria (1112 d.b.) 18. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the motion for a resolution by Dr Gudrun Kugler, Dr Elisabeth Götze, colleagues on the deterioration of the political situation in Nicaragua before the elections (1113 d.a.) 19. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 20. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 88/A(E) by Mrs Petra Bayr, Mr MA MLS, colleagues on the protection of women and girls from HIV/AIDS and violence in the OEZA and humanitarian aid (1265 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e38661	We now come to items 12 to 20 of the agenda, on which the debates under one - - - - 14. [[Abg. Kassinger: 14!]] What did I say? So to points 14 to 20, about which the debates are being conducted under one. These are the reports of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. With regard to the various Committee reports, I refer to the agenda. I should like to thank the Minister for Education and Science for his coming. There was no oral reporting. Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. The word stands with him. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e38694	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen who watch you here! The year 2020 was not a light year, the year 2021 was probably even worse, and the forecasts for the year 2022 I want to save myself. It is precisely at this time of the pandemic that there were many international crises that were partly caused, but not only by the pandemic, and also the state of the European Union is one that can sometimes be described as complaining. In such times, the word together becomes increasingly important, especially in the European Union, because this Union can and must be an institution, which, worldwide, but also in itself, for fundamental and freedom rights, for democracy, the rule of law, the rule of law and the division of powers, for what constitutes our democratic society. Ladies and gentlemen, it is all the more important that this being of the European Union not only works inwards – I will come to the end shortly – but that we also try to find joint partners for these values, and I believe, no, I am firmly convinced that the framework agreement with our transatlantic partner – where the word transatlantic is not very precise in Australia, then it would be: trans-Pacific partners – the agreement with Australia is an essential point on the agenda, and that is why we can only accept it as Austrian social democracy. It is about political cooperation, it is about economic cooperation, and above all it is about two democracies, two democratic systems, complementing each other in their abilities. The goal must be quite clear, ladies and gentlemen: Relations between Australia and the European Union must be strengthened. However, it is not only about strengthening such relations – I mentioned this at the outset – but also about how we as the Austrian Republic, as Austrian politicians, deal with the European Union, and of course the government is an important player, in addition to our MEPs and in addition to our Commissioner in the European Commission. Unfortunately, over the past four years, the Austrian course has been marked by splitting more than one, more to see on its own interests and not to understand that the common interest at the end is much heavier than that of exclusively selfish interest. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That was the European policy course of the system in brief, and after this system is imploded, there are two things to do, I think, Foreign Minister, next to the Candy Crush or whatever it is, first of all, to ensure that the reputation of Austria is restored. What has become known about our country in recent months – it has already broken in – has not used our reputation in the European Union, no, on the contrary, massively damaged. Secondly, it is a question of returning to the side of those who are in favour of a united Europe of solidarity which is in favour of democracy in Europe, the rule of law, the division of violence and freedom in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, the Europe of Social Democracy – and this should be the Europe of Austria – is a Europe where the right of the stronger is not valid, but the strength of the law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e38748	I can also welcome the Foreign Minister to us. Mr Lopatka is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e38773	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Her judgment, Mr Leichtfried, is the opposite of how Austria is seen internationally in Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Listen to what the Israeli Foreign Minister said only yesterday about the work of the government in brief! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's all I want to say, but you'd be well advised. Austria was, and will continue to be, a reliable and active partner of the European Union. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Stöger and Mr Leichtfried.]] Read the foreign and European policy report, you can learn something about it! [[Keeping that report up-to-date]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross.]] On 276 pages it is shown what the Federal Government on the one hand, and on the other hand our diplomats on the other – this is a certificate of performance. [[Abg. Light peace makes a challenging gesture.]] You'd have had enough time to read that, but it's nice that you're now asking me to give it to you, rather late than never. I'll give it to you afterwards, Mr Leichtfried. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What I would like to say is that in difficult times Austria shoulders its responsibility in a variety of ways. We are discussing seven points here. I mentioned the report. There is also an agreement with Australia. Now one could believe that this is not so important, but in times like this it is very important. It is a framework agreement concluded by the European Union with Australia. In China's increasingly aggressive policy, we need global alliances, and it's important – and it's only last week that our foreign minister also met the Australian foreign minister – that the West also develops strategies. [[Abg. Loacker:... Taiwan!]] These are two very positive proposals, but we also have five requests that show that the number of crises has increased. Ethiopia: in the middle of the civil war. Syria: Terror, refugee, that's everyday life. Nicaragua: Human rights violations, repression and, lastly, the election. Turkey, in a further request, is now developing its democratic deficits, in an attempt to ban a party with more than 50 Members. Imagine, here with us, 20 Members – that would be the number in relation to Turkey – lose their seat overnight by a decision that is brought to justice! Many other crisis spots are not addressed in the points – Myanmar, Belarus, Venezuela and Ukraine. This is addressed by Mr Dziedzic, who will make a joint request. What I would like to say is that our Parliament is just as demanded of the Federal Government, wherever it is necessary to stand up for democracy and human rights. We live in uneasy, one could also say, in disturbing times. Many have believed that with 1989 the victory march of democracy is irreversible. It has been at Fukuyama the talk of the “end of history”, “The End of History”. It is likely that another person who has also illuminated this topic was more right, namely Samuel Huntington, when he speaks of the “Clash of Civilizations, ” the “Battle of Cultures. ” It's actually like this: We are still in this fight more than 30 years after 1989. On the one hand, China, in order to say it quite directly, and in many other areas, Russia too, we face increasing pressure from democracy, international cooperation and mutual opening up. It is good for us not only to discuss these proposals but also to decide with as much agreement as possible. We have this confrontation wisely to lead. I believe that we should always be able to open up to Russia and China in this logic of confrontation, where it is becoming more and more brutal to face up to a logic in which there is a more cost-effective cooperation that we both benefit from. If we want to solve the big problems – climate change is such a problem – we will only do so together. Therefore, my position is: Wherever possible, we need cooperation. We should fight for it and do everything! But where there is no other way, we must not shy the confrontation. We have much to lose if we are not prepared to join forces for what we so value, for our rule of law and for our open society. Whether in Belarus, Ukraine or Turkey: We are in common with all these countries. Therefore, from my side already a thank you for having many of these requests given a very, very broad consent. Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e38868	Member of Parliament has now been notified to the House. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e38890	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Schallenberg, Minister of State! Welcome back in your original role as Foreign Minister after the not particularly successful trip to the spheres of the Federal Chancellor. (He Rufe bei ÖVP.) – (With a calm voice:) Heh! [[Abg. Loacker: (pointing to the government bank) Is just one step to the side!]] Finally, only the quote will probably remain that it will be very, very “uncomfortable ” for unvaccinated people at Christmastime. But let us come to the Federal Government's foreign and European policy report! I would like to address two areas of concern: Austria's development cooperation, which is largely reflected in the foreign and European policy report, and, on the other hand, the issue of European Union, in particular migration, or I would even say – not just would, but I say – migration issues that concern the European continent. On page 178, it is said that development policy: “Austria’s development policy is a fundamental contribution to security, prosperity and stability in closer and further neighbourhood and is therefore an essential pillar of our interest and foreign policy alone.” In view of the hundreds of millions of euros of taxpayers invested in this area, I must say: This is a total failure in countries such as Ethiopia and Afghanistan, as far as this is concerned. From our point of view, it is even clear: Development aid and development cooperation must meet certain criteria and must not take place – as we believe it is happening at present – by the government, consisting of the Green and Austrian People's Party, by massive increase of funds, and all of this in times when it really becomes scarce and scarcer in Austria and is increasingly tighter for the Austrian population of the belts. I'm just saying, you know, keyword of exploding energy prices, tax charges and so on, and so on: There would be a certain degree of proportionality, and we do not believe that this is the case. These permanent increases in tax money – in some cases even quadruples – are not appropriate for development assistance/cooperation in the current situation from the point of view of the Free Party. – You may clap too! [[Cheerfulness of the speaker as well as of the FPÖ.]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] The second area concerns the European Union, the issue of migration and the migration pact and the issue of distribution. The report, on page 65, also stresses “a deepened and renewed political cooperation” between the European Union and Africa, which takes into account “all aspects of migration” and so on, et cetera pp. This includes, in particular, the legally binding withdrawal agreements that the Republic of Austria has concluded with different African countries, or has not concluded. In order to bring a little light into the dark on this whole matter, I will today bring a corresponding question to you, Minister of State Schallenberg, concerning the government's migration policy total failure due to lack of readmission agreements. There are then all the detailed questions included. We have the feeling – and not just the feeling, but we are convinced – that these agreements actually exist only on the paper, but de facto are not implemented. Her predecessor, former Minister of Foreign Affairs, Linhart, said in the Committee that 70 percent of the rejected asylum seekers, i.e. the illegal asylum seekers in Europe, simply remain there because these withdrawal agreements are in fact most likely not worth the paper on which they are written. Therefore, on the part of the Freedom Party, a very precise request is made to you, and we hope that we will receive substantial answers. At European level, we have the migration pact in the house, the new migration pact of the European Union, and I must say quite honestly from the perspective of the Freedom Party: We are already getting relatively bad, because there is only more talk of effective management, effective "immigration control" – is equal distribution in Europe. In doing so, we are relatively sure that the Republic of Austria, as in the past, will again be given a lot of thought disproportionately instead of thinking about how to end this illegal mass migration – not a word about it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the other hand, the report states that the Republic of Austria has been ‘ongoing in the negotiations’ – i.e. the information content of this sentence is also relatively manageable. That would interest me: How did you get involved? Did we articulate a position there? If so, what, and how was the reaction? My presumption is rather different, and I have been with Mr Lopatka, who says that Austria has always been a “reliable and active partner of the European Union”. This is how you can formulate it – but of course you can also formulate it differently: Austria has always been the country that has not said anything against the Commission's proposals, which of course is also very reliable and very popular in Brussels. However, this is not the task of the Austrian Federal Government, but the task of the Austrian Federal Government is to represent the interests of Austrians with emphasis on the European Union. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Since Christmas is approaching and Christmas is the time of peace and reflection, I would like to conclude with two quotations from this report of your ministry. On page 14 there is – I quote –: “Hybrid threats are aimed at destabilising societies or affecting public opinion or elections.” – Would you call the ÖVP a hybrid threat to Austria? As a second quote, I would like to emphasise what the European Union is concerned with: Page 4 of this report deals with a judgment in infringement proceedings, i.e. the Commission has sued the Republic of Austria. The European Court of Justice has decided on a very important matter. I quote: “With judgment in the infringement proceedings for the permission of the spring hunting of forest snows in Lower Austria, the ECJ decided that Austria had violated its obligations under the Directive, 2009/....” – I think the European Union would have to do more important things!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e38964	Members Ernst-Dziedzic are reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e38986	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. “There are undoubtedly turbulent times,” says the preface to the 2020 foreign and European policy report. This assessment is not only true, but we experience more or less daily how this state becomes obsolete itself; and we know what challenges we face these days. In 5 minutes it would hardly be possible to deal with all the challenges, but I would like to take two of them particularly up-to-date. On the one hand, it's about the border of Belarus. We know that the European Union's position on fundamental rights has actually been undermined by this situation at the border. The second concerns the volatile situation on the border between Russia and Ukraine, which, of course, concerns us a lot, because we know that there could even be an open war there if the international community of States – the European Union, but of course Russia, Ukraine and us in the Eastern Partnership – did not succeed in resolving this conflict accordingly. To Belarus, it is definitely important to say that the situation in the country is still a repressive one. It was only yesterday that the man Swyatlana Zichanouskajas was sentenced to 18 years in prison, and the press speaker of A1 – we know A1 is quite involved by state Austrian shares – was not only arrested but allegedly called under torture to truly drastic confessions. Even at the border between Poland and Belarus there is still no relaxation, not because of the large number of people seeking protection in the forests, but because of the humanitarian situation for the few thousand people and because of the ease of use of both the Member States and the European Union itself, with the human rights standards that are, in fact, the basis for our human rights, our democracy and our understanding of the European Union are gradually being removed. Too many forget right now that these standards have been created to have a binding requirement for all of us political action, and not to negate them any way down for reasons of opportunity, what is happening right now. What to do with all these threats? How to deal with these threats? What can we learn from all of this? – On the one hand, I very much welcome the fact that Austria, but of course the whole European Union not only continues to force the Eastern Partnership with Ukraine, but also with the other eastern states, but also that there are concrete projects and considerations to support states such as Ukraine, for example, by bringing up to 2.3 billion euros into the areas of economy, good governance, security, environment, climate and digital transformation. In the end, this will result in an additional EUR 17 billion being released from public and private investment. What else do I say? . I welcome the consideration that Russia should be excluded from the international financial transaction system. We know that has already worked in Iran, and this is still an important consideration, as is the consideration of Nord Stream 2. We know that this is an important non-military weapon in Europe vis-à-vis Russia, because the whole Putin power unit is based precisely on the fact that there are these economic relations with the gas pipelines. Finally, Mr Lopatka has already announced this, as Austria, we can not only actively work at European and international level in the bodies for a de-escalation of the situation, but we are also presenting a motion for a resolution today in the Austrian Parliament. The Members who have been signed make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] All in all: We may be a small, but neutral country with a lot of know-how, with a lot of expertise, especially in terms of peace policy, especially as regards deescalation or international talks, as was last seen in the example of Belarus. Austria must not look away in the case of Ukraine, and I hope that it will be given broad support. Thank you. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[15:56]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e39145	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Bayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e39169	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I now take it as a sporting challenge to speak in 4 minutes on three applications. First: The request of the government parties according to § 27 for the strengthening of women's rights is quite okay, it is only with my original request to protect women and girls from HIV/AIDS and violence that he no longer has much to do. HIV/AIDS is no longer present in the application text at all. My request has been two years old, he says, he has been written before Corona, and already at that time the situation for women and girls was extremely dramatic. Since Corona, she's gotten even worse. Although we are completely able to get rid of SDG 3, AIDS by 2030, in principle on a very good path – in the last 20 years we have saved 44 million lives, the deaths have fallen by 65 percent, the new infections by 54 percent – but since we have Covid-19, the health systems have simply been completely overburdened. There are, for example, 20 percent fewer HIV tests, and it would be really, really urgent at the time when Austria is doing something to protect women and girls in particular and accordingly both strengthens health systems and organisations that work in this direction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, I would like to make the following motions for resolutions on the agenda on which, among other things, it is about giving more and doing more in the Covax initiative. So far, we have donated some two million doses of Astra Zeneca bilaterally. Often it looks as if these are just guest gifts, and the question of whether they can be organized, distributed and immunized is less important than the symbolism. [[Quoted print version removed]] The motion for a resolution by Mr Petra Bayr, Mr MA MLS, colleagues on ‘strengthening international vaccine solidarity’ is distributed in the hall. In fact, although we know that on average 70 percent of the European population are vaccinated, it is only about 4 percent in the global south. It is simply necessary to produce a higher level of vaccine, and a good way to achieve this would be to grant exceptions to the Trips Agreement. For example, President Biden has voted in favour of this, and the European Parliament has voted in favour of it. The new Secretary-General of the WTO has called for unused production capacities to be used in the global south. The motion for a resolution calls for a global fair, transparent and manageable access to Covid-19 vaccines, medicines and diagnostics by, for example, a coordinated approach at global level to the fact that actual technology transfers are being carried out, that the financial resources for Covax are fattened, that there is an increase in the global production capacity of vaccines, for example by declaring vaccines to be global public goods, and that all those who want to be vaccinated can also be vaccinated. The European Union is invited to support the suspension of trade-related intellectual property rights in the fight against pandemic, to activate the Waiver clause in the Trips Agreement, and last but not least to use the WTO new occupation to rethink the world trade system and to design an economy that is not working in the interests of fewer shareholders but is really in the interests of people. Let me conclude by saying: The pandemic is over when it is over for all people in this world, and not earlier. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[16:01]] The applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e39398	The motions for resolutions are both sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. – The word stands with you, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e39422	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! While we are peacefully discussing here, we are shooting people with Russian weapons, which is in Ukraine. As we discuss peacefully here, people in Belarus who want nothing but to live in a free country will be arrested for 18 years. While we are talking peacefully here, in Bosnia in the so-called Republic of Srpska, there is a Mr Milorad Dodik, who has no intention of destroying the fragile building of Bosnia. What connects these three sites, unfortunately a kind of war scene, is that there is a political will behind them, namely the political will of Vladimir Putin, as much dissatisfaction as possible, to bring as much instability as possible into the vicinity of Europe, near the European Union, and on the contrary, we must defend ourselves. The former German Foreign Minister Gabriel said that all of us have seen the world out of a twinkling of an eye and have taken too little care of what is happening in the world – and I would like to say that the beautiful city of Berehowe in Ukraine is closer than Bregenz, which is a neighboring city. Lemberg has, As we know, not only Austrian past, but also is not very far away. I held a very interesting, long conversation yesterday with the new Ukrainian ambassador Vasyl Khymynets. He says: Finally, we are a European country, we are a European nation, we now finally have an association agreement, we want to represent European values, we want to live together in Europe, we also need to be protected, and I can only support it. Unfortunately, I have to say that the new Federal Chancellor – unfortunately he is not there, I know where he is, he has something to do in Europe – has made a really serious foreign policy mistake from my point of view before he went to Brussels. He just told a German newspaper: No, Nord Stream 2, we're not looking at that, that's certainly not a political weapon – as Mr Ernst-Dziedzic said – with which we can take action against Putin. No, no, it was about security of supply. – That is not true, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] We now have the security of supply with gas, without Nord Stream 2, but Mr Putin knows he wants to make 2 money with Nord Stream – he needs us! [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Michael Hammer]] And if there is a danger – the danger exists with over 100,000 soldiers near the Ukrainian border, i.e. in Europe – that these are also marching on Ukraine, it must be said to him: If you do, we'll lock up Nord Stream 2. We have tabled a request to this effect, which we will discuss in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I am really looking for a rethink, Mr Federal Minister! If we want to protect a piece of Europe, we must say that clearly. I have nothing against the request, he's all right. It is requested and we want a clear response. – One must judge to the Lord what a clear action is, otherwise we will not be taken seriously! How much Europe is taken seriously we have experienced in Belarus. What did the dictator Lukashenko do? – He has tried to blackmail Europe with refugees, and he has been directed, in particular, by the airlines that brought the refugees: If you continue, you can no longer fly to the EU. What did that mean? – That they have understood what is important to them – Europe is more important, the EU is more important. So it works. You have to do the same, I think, at the Western Balkans. We have had an interesting discussion with young representatives of the Western Balkans, Mr Lopatka. They want to come to us, they want to work with us, they want to come to us as Europe, of course, and we also need to become very concrete. I brought with me an interesting book that writes “Time” that it is a Russian book you must have read to understand the East: Masha Gessen, “The Future Is History”. [[Keeping that book in height]] This sounds very sad, but is very important to understand: Yes, Putin destroyed democracy, but there have been attempts before, and it has partly also worked. Of course, we must hope that Russia will also return to democracy. One word to China, however, because it has already been mentioned. There is also the following: We must act together as Europe. There is also hope, because the European Commission is preparing a very clear memorandum, a European mechanism for protecting against economic pressure, and that, if China threatens Lithuania, what is at present, nothing will be imported from there. We need to work together on this. The good news is also: That's where we need it. only a majority decision, not a unanimous decision as in foreign policy, because it concerns trade policy. This is another sign that if we act together as a Europe, we have a chance. But we must not give up the opportunities we have from the outset. I think I am very sorry, I hope that we learn and understand about Ukraine right now: We Europeans are so strong, but we are only strong if we act together and all those – in the German government programme – who want to endanger our peace, our freedom and human rights together. I'm asking you to do this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e39509	The Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs has been reported to speak. – Mr Federal Minister, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e39531	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. It was said in the beginning: We look back on a truly moving year in 2021, not only in Austria, but all over Europe and all over the world. The next year, too, promises to be quite moved. It crisiss at all corners and ends. Just think of the North African, Sahel, Middle East and Afghanistan, but also of our immediate neighborhood! Belarus has already been mentioned, and now, of course, especially the sabering – the unobtrusive saber race – of Russia on the Russian-Ukrainian border. The situation there is increasingly high, tense and very disturbing. I believe that our common task is to prevent escalation by all means. What we also made quite clear at the last meeting of the EU Foreign Ministers is that we are drawing a red line and that we will show clear reactions in the form of sanctions if this line is to be exceeded. – Quite openly, honourable Member: Nord Stream 2 doesn't belong to me, it's like apples and pears for me. It would be, I think, a shot in its own knee – but we have already held this discussion more often. But one thing is right: We can't look away. Ukraine, the border of Ukraine, is closer to Vienna than Lech am Arlberg. This is a situation that affects us directly. All these crisis situations are, of course, still overshadowed by the Covid-19 panel, although, thanks to science, we have not only had a fast vaccine, but also enough of it in Europe. In view of this wealth of challenges we face, it is necessary to have a very strong and clearly value-based foreign and European policy – and this is what this Federal Government stands for – a foreign policy with its own profile and edges, which is not afraid to represent national interests outside, which is not seen as a balcony at the House of the Republic, but as an integral part of the general government policy, for example migration policy, keyword climate policy. However, there is also a need for a foreign policy – I say quite clearly – with clear pro-European orientation, with a clear turning point to our European neighbours – for example, the Western Balkans or the Central Five, the Slavkov format, the cooperation with our immediate neighbours – and, what is especially important to me, also the orientation towards strategic partners. That's what I'm First of all, of course, the transatlantic relationship with the United States, but also very special – as I am especially proud of it personally – our new quality of relations with Israel; this is particularly important to me and we will continue to do so. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] These are the major guidelines of this Federal Government's foreign policy, and of course they are also set out in the 2020 foreign and European policy report. I can really reassure all those who seem to worry about the reputation of Austria in Europe or internationally – a little bit of a thread –: This call is not only perfectly intact, it is even strengthened. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Vogluwer.]] It is – I would even say – a good tradition since Wolfgang Schüssel that the ÖVP is the German Chancellor, who is particularly involved at European and international level – we know that this has not always been the case with others – and I can guarantee that this will continue to be the case with an ÖVP-led federal government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In fact, I think it is rather a somewhat missed assumption, which is always heard during foreign policy discussions in Austria: a certain anxiety. You always demand a pronounced foreign policy, and you hardly have one, you get scared of your own shadow. We must not be afraid that, like other countries at European level, such as Denmark, Sweden, and Portugal, we define our own interests and bring them into the European concert. That doesn't mean polarizing, that doesn't mean splitting. That's how Europe works since 1954, which is quite normal cooperation! Finally, one achieves a consensus, but from the outset to act as if an independent foreign policy positioning of Austria would be a division policy, I think it is completely wrong and not in the interests of the citizens of that country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Today, there are quite a number of requests for discussion on the table, which are taking up some of the crisis spots that are currently working on us, such as Ethiopia, which is still a particular concern for us: The conflict goes far beyond Tiğ's borders, and reports of massive human rights violations and atrocities are more than disturbing. Especially the gender-specific and ethnic-motivated violence threatens to make the broken lines in this multi-national state unbridgeable tombs in the future. That is to say, our goal is quite clear to achieve an immediate ceasefire and political dialogue. Austria also helps specifically on the ground, as in other crisis spots. We have provided EUR 5 million from the foreign disaster fund to alleviate humanitarian suffering in Ethiopia. In Syria – this too is a current issue in today’s debate – the war that has been going on for ten years, as we all know, has left more than clear traces, and unfortunately God’s brutal military struggles are continuing in the region of Idlib. Here too, we are trying to do what I think is always the right policy: to help on the ground – not just to talk about it, but to help specifically. This year alone, 2021, Austria has made 18 million euros available for crisis management in Syria and the support of refugees from Syria in the surrounding states – that is, Lebanon and Jordan. I think this is the right policy. There are, on the one hand, crisis spots that have, as it were, a little the opportunity to control the front pages of the newspapers: I just mentioned Syria, Ethiopia and Afghanistan belong to this. On the other hand, of course, there is also a crisis that is less able to draw media attention to itself, but that is not less tragic, for example Nicaragua. There we see at present a regime – you can't call it otherwise: the Ortega regime – that itself At speed of light adopted by all democratic standards. In Nicaragua elections have taken place that do not even deserve this name, in which, in advance, all persons with oppositional and critical votes were detained by force in the election. It is also important to take a very clear position, and it is quite clear that at European level we will not stand by. I therefore believe it is perfectly correct that we have very quickly penalised a number of people who have committed serious human rights violations or who undermine democracy or the rule of law in Nicaragua. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you see, the challenges we face are very diverse. At the same time, however, this year we have also managed to play out our strengths as Austrian diplomacy. I think the active commitment I have already mentioned in the framework of the European Union and the trusting relations with our neighbours are real axes in our sleeves. Our neighbourhood policy has proved to be a safety net for Austria in particular in the pandemic, and I am very proud that I can really build on the work of many of my predecessors – that has started with Alois Mock. We have also done or continued to do something that I consider very meaningful and very important, namely dialogue at an eye, not only with like-minded partners such as the United States or Israel, but also – just as important – with partners who are not like-minded, such as Russia or China. I am thinking, for example, of Sergei Lawrow's visit here in Austria last summer. If I now hear voices from the opposition calling into question the increase in development cooperation and humanitarian aid, I can only say: The opposite is important! And especially addressed to the address of the FPÖ: If we want to prevent migration flows in the future, we will only succeed if we also create perspectives for people in the home countries if we give them the opportunity to find a life in their own home places, to shape a future. That is, even from this point of view, any increase in development cooperation and humanitarian aid is a well-understood investment in a well-understood interest policy in the interests of Austrian citizens. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The last point may be from my wait: We all know that the pandemic and the management of the various crises, for example in Afghanistan, have enormous forces, but we have also understood how to look forward. In this context, I am particularly proud of a real success project: Refocus Austria. In cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Austria advertising, we stand together abroad and present ourselves as a promoter, as an outreacher for the economic and investment location of Austria – and this is very successful. ==References== ==References====External links== Event under the motto Refocus Austria, and many more will follow in this context. In this context, I am particularly grateful to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the WKO for the really successful cooperation abroad. It is about helping to secure jobs and the export economy in that country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] This is, of course, only a small part of the foreign policy issues that have been working on us over the last 12 months, and there will be more, even now. In the next twelve months, there will be a number of issues that cannot be foreseen. I am definitely looking forward to any further discussion here and the exchange with the House. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e39654	Member of the Commission. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e39675	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are discussing the 2020 foreign and European policy report. [[Keeping that report up-to-date]] Ukraine is an important issue in this report. Yes, there are only six hours of train ride, less than 450 kilometres away, there are conflicts and war opportunities there, and the tension is of course a madness and an important topic for us. A wave of refugees from Ukraine is the last thing we need at all in the current domestic policy situation. I have read the following story online yesterday and I am not sure that this process has taken place or that the procedure has been terminated: A Ukrainian beats a gay couple in a hotel, in the Meliá in the DC Tower, down, after horrendous, obnoxious homophobic statements. This happened in the summer of 2018. Yesterday, the procedure against this Ukrainian was stopped – and the Ukrainian is not anyone, but a Ukrainian MP to the Parliament. I must say that there is a total failure of Austrian police work and justice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] The video from the hotel slammed the authorities – our authorities – and the perpetrator was not questioned at the hotel and the police said: Well, the guest list can't be seen because that would be a data protection violation. – Well, hello, what is the reporting obligation in hotels? That's why the authorities act when terrible happens! [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the Deputies Vogluer and Brandstötter.]] There were comments like: Sully belong killed! – That’s incredible! Vienna must not become the scene of such homophobic – such as killing and so on – nor anti-Semitic statements. It really has to be done! [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Götze and Mr Tomaselli, for their support.]] As far as Ukraine is concerned, there are, of course, problems, but I welcome the government's line of saying yes to Nord Stream 2 – to the broad layout of Austrian energy supply. Second point: Vienna or Austria is the seat of important international organisations and authorities. Vienna is the only official office of the United Nations in an EU country. This ensures 19 000 jobs in Austria and 1.35 billion euros in value added for Austria. However, the biggest successes of the office's policy have been long since, there was it under Chancellor Bruno Kreisky. Foreign Minister, I call for an offensive seat policy! You also have to take more money into your hands. Now, Mr Foreign Minister, you will ask me: How do I get to more budget as a Foreign Minister? Your example, apologies, I correct, your predecessor Sebastian Kurz was very active in cooperation with Thomas Schmid, the Secretary-General in the omnipotent Ministry of Finance. I'm allowed to quote from the famous mobile chats. ==References== On April 14, 2016, Schmid wrote to Sebastian Kurz: “You have a BUDGET increase of over 30%! That's what we did for you just now. More than 160 million! And get full ................................................................................................................................................................ You owe me something!" Good-bye, Thomas. [[Mr Gabriela Schwarz and Mr Steinacker.]] Foreign Minister, the Short-Schmid axis was the wood road. I think that's the wrong way, I don't think it's positive that you're going the way of short and blacksmith. And to the image of Austria – because Mr Lopatka and you have also mentioned this – the “Frankfurter Rundschau” says to the image of Austria: “But the lesson from the case in brief must be: Fingers away from supposed healers. It's a ambiguity: Power structures tailored to just one person or small cliques make democracy vulnerable to corruption and abuse of power.” – The international image of Austria regarding short and the current situation in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e39757	Member Kugler has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e39778	Mr President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we look at the foreign policy report and have listened to the many previous speakers today, I can only say: I am glad that Austrian foreign policy is back in your hands, Mr Foreign Minister! Welcome back to Parliament! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Fireplaces: What was bad about Mr. Linhart?]] [[Call to the FPÖ:Can't the Linhart...?]] Unfortunately, Mr Deer has abstained from our opinion on all of these problems that we have discussed today. He could have said a lot about foreign policy, but nothing happened in his speech. But we don't let that distract us. We made a request here in July on the deterioration of the political situation in Nicaragua, and then we discussed the elections that took place in early November. We have had over-fractional deliberations, and in this request we have also mentioned a number of things that are still a problem today. The two opposition politicians who had the best prospects of becoming dangerous to Daniel Ortega are still in prison. The elections that took place have been a farce. The Foreign Minister has said that the international media have written it: Looks like fraud, fraud, but also the word "fine president" for Ortega has fallen. We urge human rights violations here. Even abroad, the long arm of Nicaragua is attacking: People who have fled are still afraid, journalists are not allowed to come in and report on it. Nicaragua is no longer a priority country for Austrian development cooperation, but we are doing so together with the European Union. Since 2019, there have been sanctions regarding the mass protests of 2018. We also observe with concern that Nicaragua is turning to China very much. We wish for free and fair elections and respect for human rights also for Nicaragua. I am pleased that this request has received unanimous approval from the Committee and I hope that it will find it here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e39829	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e39852	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! It was mentioned that there are undoubtedly incredibly turbulent times. In fact, it goes beyond that: Crises that become more, human rights violations, attacks on democracy, attacks on the rule of law – we experience this in Europe, we experience it internationally. For us as politicians – I believe it is no matter what role – it is important to stand up on every occasion and raise the vote against it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to expressly address two countries in connection with the attacks on democracies and those in crisis. One is Afghanistan. We also discussed it in the Committee in the context of the debate on the foreign and European policy report. It is inconceivable what has been going on in Afghanistan for a few months – even before that, but it has been on the rise in recent months. Human rights violations are clearly committed there, and women's rights are not worth anything more. And yes, Minister of State, there was an aid package of over 18 million euros from Austria, which is good and right, but there is so far no specific support for people seeking help. There are also applications for this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to expressly mention here an Afghan researcher waiting for a visa for Austria. I say it honestly to you: It's embarrassing that Austria doesn't help there. Nor, by the way, if European countries, EU countries agree to bring 40 000 Afghan people to Europe on a legal basis: There too Austria leaves out. I think this is embarrassing, and I ask you at this point to reconsider your position and take up people. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Fireplaces.]] A second country I would like to expressly mention in connection with this debate is Turkey. We have been experiencing attacks on democracy for years, attacks on the rule of law, arrests of opposition and much more, because the regime there with opposition politicians, artists, journalists, lawyers and co is simply not able to stop at all and wants to turn this system off quite clearly. I believe that there is an urgent need for an appeal from Austria, because the Democratic People's Party, the HDP, in Turkey has been faced with a ban procedure for several months. There is a clear need to raise the vote against it. As a social democracy, we have tabled a request for this, and I would really like to thank at this point that this request has been heard from our side, from the SPÖs, from the government groups, from ÖVP and Greens. We can now launch a joint request, which is entirely central, and in which you, Mr Federal Minister, are asked to criticise and condemn this ban procedure quite clearly, and on every occasion, whether at bilateral or at European level, to raise your vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e39908	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e39931	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Welcome back! We are discussing the 2020 foreign and European policy report. What about seven weeks of Foreign Minister Linhart? – The preface in this report. [[Abg. Lopatka: That wasn't charming now!]] I would now like to focus your gaze on Ethiopia. For more than a year, the Tigray People's Liberation Front has been fighting government troops there. The situation is complicated, on all sides there are serious war crimes. Some experts now speak of a failed state and see Ethiopia as a failed state, which has become a real crisis case for the whole region in not even a year from the great hope of the African continent. According to UN, the war has so far cost the country 1 billion euros, with newer calculations even going to 2 billion euros. At the same time Ethiopia is also an EZA-focus country of ours, from Austria. Austria transfers 26 million euros each year to ADA funds. We have also tabled several requests on this subject. The goal is always to re-evaluate our EZA, especially in relation to Ethiopia. We want to ensure that our money, our development cooperation does not serve to finance wars. In this regard, you, Mr Foreign Minister, said in the Committee that these funds will not be fed into a budget, in the case of the Ethiopian state. This is also quite clear, so our EZA is also not declared or constructed. But what exactly do we know about what happens to our money in Ethiopia? - We don't know! We know that this war is also an information war. He is led by Fakenevs and the exclusion of rapporteurs, journalists. We also know that control of humanitarian aid is often a form of warfare itself. The UN itself cannot always guarantee that its help will actually arrive where it is most needed, and the UN is a much bigger player than Austria. Of course I wonder: If we cannot guarantee that our money does not benefit in any way from conflict parties – as we always claim – then why are our requests in this regard, too, repeatedly delayed or rejected? We do not know where our money is going in Ethiopia, but we know that the conflict is expanding and is getting more and more brutal. Obviously, too, our reminders and the demands of our government, including you, Mr Foreign Minister, who just mentioned you earlier, have to be shown in foreign policy once again, have no decisive success, and the government in Ethiopia is not likely to have any lasting impressions. That's why I'm wondering: Why do we stay in a country that we have no influence on? Why do we stay in a country where we can't even look at what happens to our money? Humanitarian aid can also be provided through the UN, but we should concentrate very much on countries of which we are also valued as partners in our development cooperation. This is not the case in Ethiopia and will not be the case in the medium term and in the longer term. You know, I am a great supporter of the EZA, but that must not be a self-interest. I am deeply convinced that we can achieve more with our resources from Austria in other regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e39970	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e39991	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! There is a nice speech tradition, the so-called ceterum censeo, 2 200 years old, after which the same political call is made at the end of a speech. Mr Blimlinger is also celebrating this in a nice way. Now, I think, we can soon boast that we are developing a new tradition in the Austrian Parliament, a so-called primum centeo: Before they even start their speech, it is now becoming a habit for social-democratic Members, first of all to go to Sebastian in brief. Without that, there is no more talk today. I wonder, Is this a tradition that we will be presented over the next few decades? - I'm sorry. I can only say one thing, Mr Leichtfried, because you were the first to criticize this: One of the reasons why I allowed myself to get into politics was that I was ashamed of the fact that an Austrian Chancellor, a Social Democratic, was ridiculed in Germany, that he came to Austria without any opinion in Berlin and came back to Austria with the opinion of the then German Chancellor. I can only say that I am glad and proud that Sebastian Kurz, as Foreign Minister and Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, did excellent work, finally brought Austria back to the international parquet, when, so to speak, important partners were also seen in international politics. I am very grateful to him for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One word only to colleagues: As sad and horrible as this incident is, I wonder why you are discussing this in the debate on the foreign policy report and so to speak appeal to the Foreign Minister. I would rather have expected you to address your appeal to the Minister of Justice, if so. Besides, I can also say: They have talked about the total failure of the judiciary – here in the House, where we held very intense discussions a few weeks ago about how much we can criticize justice. I do not think we should measure by two measures. I think it also calls for respect to say that justice should do its job, but to speak of a total failure, I do not think it appropriate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Last, but not least, I come to the request on which I am allowed to report, a little in response to Mr Kassager of the FPÖ. Yes, we are proud that we have actually substantially increased humanitarian aid. I think this is best Austrian tradition. I believe that the great majority of Austrians are behind our minds that we are close to and far from people in need. I think it's a noble tradition, and we're also proud of it. In the specific case, our request is that we seek additional support, especially in this difficult time of the Covid Pandemic and its impact, especially on women around the world. This is what we have just demonstrated in our motion for a resolution. We have already focused on promoting women, women and health, especially in the fight against sexual and gender-based violence, against female genital mutilation, women and education and so on. That is, in so far as what Mr Bayr has requested is concerned. We want to take measures to: Just now, in the course of this pandemic, to help women all over the world even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e40048	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the position of Mr Jeitler-Cincelli. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e40070	Mr President. Mrs. Minister – now you are two! Mr. Minister! I actually wanted to talk about the EU framework agreement with Australia. For me, foreign policy is sometimes local policy and economic policy. I could now tell you a lot of facts about Australia that you don't know: for example, there are a million free-living camels there, or – I've wondered – that Australia is the largest sand exporter. Sand is exported to Saudi Arabia, to the Middle East. There's a lot we don't know. But much more important is what the world out there knows about us. This image – and I want to join my colleagues Martin Engelberg directly – that we place outside, which we, as Austria in the world, give, is something to all of us. I've been in this house since November 2017, and I've also heard a chancellor's fifth address. You, dear Jörg, said last week in the EU's main committee: [[towards Abg. Light snow]] Three German chancellors in three Council meetings in a row – what does this make for an image indicates reliability and pact fidelity? You referred to Merkel, how good stability is. Now I have to ask one thing: Is there a question of guilt in this question? - I don't think so. I think we have a political culture in this country, established over not only for years, but probably for two decades, and now have to fight with it. And we have to get to the bottom of this: What are the parameters, what are we talking about, why did this happen? All this – and I am not going into protagonists like Mr. Dr. Tür, who should not have anything to do with this house here, I am not going into silver stone or anything else – is a culture, and I have a general desire: that we are milder and gentler together, that we establish a new culture here together. A recent example: a moderate yesterday, in which a moderator seems to have been in a situation in which we all had never had to act before, after two decades a misstep happened – and how hesitant and in what way is debated about it. I believe and I wish that Austria is also this charming Austria, where one also says: Please, don't be so tragic, where we don't make a tumult out of it. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] It hasn't happened in a lot of relevance. Maybe you could just try leaving five straight at times. What is the world to know about Austria out there? – The world should know that we are a strong export partner that we are a sympathetic, charming people that we offer top tourism at the highest level. That's what the world should know: how we work. Minister Schallenberg, I found this Refocus-Austria initiative quite, very great, the cooperation of the foreign economy with diplomacy, with the ministry, with your home, where side by side diplomats work with economic delegates, mutual understanding of their world even better, opening doors for the domestic companies. These are initiatives I wish for: tailor-made events, Economic policy as an integral part of our foreign policy, and our foreign policy focus – and there really is an appeal to all in the opposition – as an integral part of our domestic policy dialogue. We all have a responsibility, all of us together, every individual and every one of us, how we work out there in the world. Therefore: Let's just leave some things once with a charming: Watch out, let's stop the trick! If we become more reconciled, we become more gentle, we judge less about people in situations in which we were never ourselves, and we transform this house together, because it is up to all of us – including the SPÖ – which we, as Austria, hold outside the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e40137	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? – That does not seem to be the case. I wonder if we can vote: SPÖ? Green? NEOS? - Then let's go like that. Agenda item 14: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of the report on the 2020 foreign and European policy report of the Federal Government III-482 of the Supplements. Whoever does this is asked for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lopatka, Mr Ernst-Dziedzic, Mr President, on the Russian concentration of troops at the Ukrainian border. Whoever is to do so is asked for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[217/E]] motion for a resolution by Mr Bayr, colleagues, on ‘transparent vaccines’. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Bayr, colleagues on ‘strengthening international vaccine solidarity’. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – That's the minority. Agenda item 15: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Framework Agreements between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Australia, of the other part, in 988 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act to be approved. Those who are in favour of this will be asked for consent accordingly. – That is unanimous. Vote on item 16, the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1111 of the Supplements on 'The situation in Ethiopia'. Whoever is to do so is asked for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[218/E]] Vote on item 17 of the resolution on ‘the humanitarian situation in Syria’, annexed to the Committee’s report 1112 of the Supplements. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority accepted. [[219/E]] Vote on item 18, the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1113 of the Supplements on ‘the deterioration of the political situation in Nicaragua prior to the elections’. Whoever is to do so is asked for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[220/E]] Vote on agenda item 19, the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1264 of the Supplements on ‘Prohibition procedures against HDP’. Whoever is to do so is asked to give a corresponding sign. – That is unanimous. [[221/E]] Agenda item 20: We first come to the vote on the request by the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of its report 1265 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 88/A(E). Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on the Committee's report 1265 on the strengthening of women's rights, including women's health and the protection of women's and girls' against gender violence in the OECA and humanitarian aid. Whoever is to do so is asked for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, accepted. [[222/E]] I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his presence and welcome Mrs Schramböck and Mrs Köstinger. [[16:45:26]] 21. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (1167, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Federal Act on the Improvement of Local Supply and Competition Conditions (1212 d.b.) 22. Point Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Industry and Energy on the motion for a resolution 2092/A by Mr Peter Haubner, Dr Elisabeth Götze, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the Accounting Act 2014, the Chamber of Commerce Act 1998, the Law on the Economic Lodging Manuals 2017, the Civil Engineering Act 2019 and the Workers' Chamber Act 1992 (1213 d.b.) 23. Point Report and request of the Committee on Economic, Industrial and Energy on the draft federal law amending the Federal Law on a COVID-19 Funding for Industrial Testing (BTG) (1214 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e40377	We come to Agenda items 21 to 23, on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Matznetter is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The word stands with him. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e40405	Mr President. Estimated women Federal ministers! On item 21, I would like to refer to the speech that my colleague Ecker will then give. That's really funny: It's said we don't want a gold plating, and then what do we get in the implementation as a template? – Golden plating in pure culture! Mrs Bundesminister Köstinger, you should really consider whether such a concertation of a long-term demand from the ÖVP ranks makes sense, just because it is just that it fits the interests of individual close-up companies. However, I would like to take advantage of my speaking time to say something about the item on the agenda 22 in brief: Of course, we need measures in view of the progressive Covid Pandemic, which regulate how voting in bodies can take place. It's just on the verge of saying: This is not the best solution – I have already said it in the Committee – but one could use hybrid and video conferencing systems to a much greater extent and should not have to delegate decisions to smaller bodies. Nevertheless, we will agree. The most important point, however, is: It has happened exactly what I have said from this pult several times throughout the autumn: We're too late. The help that is now coming will no longer arrive this year. The holdings were blocked by robbery. If you're talking to someone in the gastronomy today, the next question is: Well, will we be allowed to lock up to New Year's Eve? And the answer of politics is: We don't know. We don't know under any conditions either. We don't even know if we can open to New Year's Eve at midnight. – This is reality. [[Call the ÖVP: Ask Ludwig!]] The aid with a 40 percent loss of sales, while in November only nine days was Lockdown, almost sounds like the citizens of Schilda. This is precisely why a company with an average turnover does not receive a default bonus. Now 30 percent are promised, but this still does not cover the situation that, due to the early pre-Christmas season, most of the majority will probably fall around the outage bonus. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope you will agree, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[16:50]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e40543	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Haubner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e40568	Mr President. Appreciate women ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! On the topic of local care and conditions of competition, my colleague Carmen Jeitler will then speak, I would like to focus on the topic of operational testing, because it is very important that we have a good test strategy alongside a clear vaccination strategy. Both can cause us to interrupt the infection chain as soon as possible. I believe that this is the goal of all of our actions, and therefore it is good that we should extend the operational testing in good time until 31. March of next year, and that we are now also expanding these tests, namely the PCR tests and the PCR belt tests in the plants and also outside the plants. I think it is a very essential point that we create even more test offers, support these test offers among the companies, and, in line with our contribution, make it possible for companies to test in their businesses or their employees also outside the companies and their families. We support the entire processing of the tests and of course also the entire logistics with an amount of 15 euros per test. I think this is a good measure, because we support our domestic companies so that they can continue to participate in the test strategy. We would like to thank the companies and the employees for accepting this offer and, in turn, support us in finding this way out of this pandemic together. I think the 3G rules at the workplace are very important – we have discussed this too – because they are a major challenge for companies anyway. The 2G rules at the workplace are simply not feasible, so it is important that, if there are the 3G rules at the workplace, we create these test offers. In order to be able to do all that I have now said, it is necessary that I make the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Please support this extension of operational testing so that we can also make the opportunity to make a further positive contribution to the joint fight against the pandemic! - Thank you many times. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[16:54]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e40711	The amendment is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Member of the Angerer Chamber has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e40735	Mr President. Appreciate women ministers! In this block under Agenda item 21, we have the subject of improving local supply and conditions of competition in this area, especially for agricultural and agricultural holdings and producers. What we don't fully understand in the law: It is about the implementation of an EU directive and the protection of consumers. agricultural producers and farms in relation to trade giants and trade chains, so that there are no unfair conditions of competition. In this area, there are sales limits, and the lowest turnover limit for the producer is less than 2 million euros, then it goes up to 350 million euros and up to 1 billion euros. What we do not fully understand, and that is why we will not accept part of this law – unfortunately you have not been able to explain it to us in the Committee, Mrs Minister –: Why are trading companies, i.e. buyers, not covered by this Directive with an annual turnover of between EUR 1 billion and EUR 5 billion and not subject to this Directive? - Maybe you can explain this to us today. In the field of agriculture, however, as I believe, it is much more essential that there are not so many farms that make 2 billion euros in sales in the small-structured agriculture in Austria – they have quite different concerns. Today, if you look at the agricultural income according to the Green Report – broken down on a job in agriculture – then farmers with their monthly income are now under the minimum guarantee. This is actually a shame to the EIA agricultural policy in this country! Many farmers rely on alternatives through which they can also earn money, including corresponding farm shops. However, these courtyards have a problem – Mr Ofenauer and Mr Prinz know the problem: In Neidling in Lower Austria, for example, there is an occasion with a village shop which, like many others in Austria, is also in conflict with the opening hours with the opening order and the commercial regulation, which has long been revised. As is often the case with the ÖVP, a petition is brought in and with the petition nothing happens. – Mr Ofenauer, I now have to ask you: Last year you handed over the petition, now it was in the petition committee – what happens? It is necessary to change the rules of commerce. You're all talking about it, but when it comes to it, you don't do it, nothing happens. The ÖVP rejects any request for changes to the trade regulations. I would like to give you once again today the opportunity to put forward a motion for a resolution on this subject: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm seeking approval. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[16:58]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e40873	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mrs Vogler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e40899	Mr President. Dear women ministers! Spoštovana Visoka Hiša! Dear Colleagues! Today, we are adopting a law against unfair trade practices which we have negotiated very intensively for a year. I am very glad that we can now decide in this form today. What is the starting situation? – The starting point is that producer prices for farmers and primary producers have remained the same for decades, that consumer prices are rising with inflation and that these increases in costs are ultimately not paid off to producers. In addition, we are witnesses of unfair trade practices, especially trade in small fruit producers, producer communities, but also in retail trade towards dairies and other producer communities. All of this is now regulated by this law. I am surprised that we are going to make a request today to say that the small rural structure would not be protected. The fact is, if you look closely at the categories mentioned in the law, there are also all those who, as suppliers, have up to 2 million euros of turnover per year, which of course also includes the small farmers. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] I am particularly pleased as a green person that we have succeeded in extending the list of these trade practices which are prohibited. That is, in the future, when producers deliver to large customers, they can no longer be banned from direct marketing – that is the case with large dairies de facto. I am particularly pleased that customers, buyers who have a dominant position, are now unable to keep their suppliers at random worse conditions. All of this is now regulated by this law, and in addition we also create a very low starting point for farmers, so that they can get advice quickly. This advisory and complaint office will be located in the Ministry of Agriculture. The whole criticism of the future, which is still to come: You know, we are critical friends, together with the ÖVP, Mr Loacker, but this place really makes sense, believe me!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e40945	The next item is the speech by Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e40967	Madam President. Estimated ministers! High house! Yes, the protection of small suppliers from the concentration of power, from the supremacy of large supermarket chains, is certainly a legitimate concern, and therefore there is this EU directive, which is being implemented here and which Mrs Köstinger has also cooperated with at European level. But it was interesting that exactly you, Mrs. Köstinger, then publicly made a vortex and started a dispute with the Rewe group on the dates so that they could ask themselves: Why are you fighting? Something you have negotiated at European level will be implemented, and you will probably be satisfied with it. It is all the more surprising if, in implementation, it is not done what has been agreed at European level, but when gold plating is operated in a large style, so if one deviates from the European standards and in Austria creates different market conditions compared to the neighbouring countries. To this end, the small suppliers, protecting the small suppliers from the big chains, have said: We introduce an additional level of protection for suppliers with an annual turnover of 350 million to 1 billion euros – but please, with 350 million a company is no longer small and in need of protection! These are even big and market-intensive companies! And if you look who's falling into this group, you'll find the Raiffeisen group! Then, by chance, the low-Austrian milk, which belongs to 75 percent of raiffeisen, has now been added to the protective group with 385 million revenues – such luck but also! There you go. Hopefully you get a nice package of thanks from the Raiffeisen, and a few yogurts from the NÖM so that you will be rewarded for the benefits you have given them. Similarly, criticism points have not been taken into account in the implementation, for example, of the Bar Association or of the Federal Competition Authority. For example, there are no limitation rules for some problems. There are also no rights of defence of a buyer – one should ensure legal hearing for both sides; even if the law serves to protect the little ones, the supermarket chain must also be guaranteed at least legal hearing. Because there's a lot of gold plating in it, I'm bringing in an amendment that's supposed to put this law back to its healthy level: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Haubner praised the operating testing law. If you look closely at this, you can see that these operational tests are now being extended to 31.12.2022, that is to say over a year. That's what I'm asking myself: ==References== February a vaccination is planned, why then operational testing by the end of 2022? – All of this makes no sense, and because the pandemic fight against this government does not make sense, it is actually consistent. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Lercher.]] [[17:05]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e41100	The amendment has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Johann Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e41127	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Women Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me also refer to the law on improving local services, strengthening competition law! It is about the fact that suppliers, suppliers, but also trade chains can be active at an eye-to-face level in the future. It is the implementation of an EU directive that we like to comply with, because it should strengthen really small producers. We know that we have a certain concentration of power in trade, and there are different practices in which to put pressure on smaller producers. This is often demented, but from practice we know unfortunately that this happens again and again. In this case, small producers are also to be strengthened. It is about mentioning a few examples of payment targets: It can't be that those who deliver perishable goods sold within a few days – fruits or vegetables – still don't get their money after 30 days. These are limits that we want to set. That's logical, because in order to produce vegetables alone, you often have to pre-finance a year, and then you can expect yourself as a supplier to be paid within 30 days. In the case of non-degradable goods, we want to set a limit of 60 days, so really introduce practical stages, and if some think that is not necessary, I say: We should be right about that! But if it really happens, then the small producer has something to do with which he can report to a first interlocutory and complaint body, and that will then be checked. The less we need these, the better it is for everyone. As far as strengthening competition law as a whole is concerned, it must be important to us that we also have domestic production and supply in the future. As mentioned by some previous speakers: Yes, many producers are the last member in the Chain and are accordingly often and long under pressure. I think it is not in all our sense that production is becoming more and more lost, transferred abroad or covered with own brands, but we can be really proud of the domestic production. With this law we want to strengthen it and secure it for the future. What happened to some of my previous speakers: In the truest sense of the word, they have mixed herb and beet. Many terms were misrepresented. I'm just saying one example: Yes, even micro-producers up to a turnover of 2 million euros can benefit if they deliver to a chain that makes more than 2 million euros in turnover. So: Small supplier up to 2 million in chain over 2 million – and you are also involved in this case in the context of this law. Mr Angerer: Unfortunately, unfortunately no idea of matter! Everything that can only be mixed through, combined agricultural production, industrial production and trade in a single sentence – that is not possible. For you, just for information: As a farmer, even with the agricultural by-products, you can sell 24 hours a day, seven days a week. So that's where we have a regulation. What only happens: You always mix commercial law, trade law, agricultural production and wholesale. However, these are completely different parameters when it comes to regulations and laws, and often there are discussions that are not necessary. In this sense, I can calm you: As a farmer, I can market my products via a self-service shop or similar 24 hours a day, seven days a week. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e41182	Now Mrs Federal Minister Margarete Schramböck has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e41203	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague! In 2021, despite Covid, the economic growth of the Austrian companies has been stronger than we expected, and above all more so than with our neighbours in Germany and Switzerland. This shows us the OECD numbers, but this also shows us the local numbers of the Wifo. This strong Austrian economic location is due to great and courageous entrepreneurs and their highly qualified, committed and motivated employees. Today I would like to take the opportunity to thank them, because it will be the last time before Christmas that I can be here with you at the National Council, and it is quite, very important that we thank them for all that they did in 2021. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Disoski.]] Together they drive the economy forward, and yes, our task is to support it as a government. When the virus strikes again, it is our job to create a catch-up network, and yes, we have done that: a collection network in the field of liquidity, a collection network in the area of employees through short-time work and also a catch-up network for losses which they had to take away or which they have encountered due to the corona situation. At the same time, we have succeeded in setting impulses, namely economic impulses. I only recall the investment premium, which is also mentioned in the OECD report. It is very important that we continue these impulses and that is what we are doing today, on such an important day when eco-social tax reform was decided in the Council of Ministers. The opening up of trade is also essential, since it is necessary to have a security network, with security measures that allow trade to be reopened, as well as the Golden Sunday, which is very important. Economic aid is in progress, and at the same time it is our task to continue creating framework conditions so that economies in Austria can take place well and fairly. The operational testing has been mentioned, the businesses play an important role. That is why we extend this measure and make it possible for operational testing – especially the belt tests – to be possible outside the premises. However, what we are doing is looking at exactly how size the companies are. It is important to promote regionality – this has also shown us Covid – accordingly. It is important to note that the resilience of the Austrian economic location is due to the fact that our SMEs, our medium-sized enterprises, our small structures both in agriculture and in production and trade – even there there are small businesses – are doing well and there is a corresponding balance. We have an important food industry in Austria with 77 000 employees and 4 700 companies. Not all of these are large, of which there are also a lot of small ones, and looking at them, on the producing craftsmanships as well as on farms, is an important concern for us together. Conflicts are repeated. It is important to resolve this efficiently and quickly and well and through a contact point that we are creating. It is important for me to continue to support and, above all, to promote this small structure of Austria and to ensure that there is justice and the possibility of communicating with each other at the same level and solving problems when they occur. That is why I ask you to support us in this project, because it is a right and good one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e41264	Mr Max Lercher has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e41286	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Look – I have to repeat it, otherwise it will be forgotten – we, all the parties, all the opposition parties, always offered cooperation when this crisis began. We were ready for this cooperation, you did not accept it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Everything started – when we discuss economic aid – that you took legal certainty from entrepreneurs when you took out the Epidemic Act despite warnings. All the opposition parties have strongly warned you to do so. However, they have done it, and as with the Covid measures in Austria, you have created a flicker slug with the help of the aid, in which not legal certainty is in the foreground, but most of them are downgraded to bitters. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now we have experienced the new style of Sebastian Kurz, the new style is now an old style. [[Abg. Höfinger: An established one!]] Now we have again a new Federal Chancellor, who works very harmoniously in the sound, only the music does not play in the house yet, because, dear Mr Haubner, and I appreciate You very much, if you put an amendment to us 10 minutes before the vote, then I am now again afraid of this new style. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] Although it is in order in terms of content, this is not a way of working together in this House. That's exactly the expression of how you fight pandemic – by chance. There is no concrete plan today, no concrete automation, what happens when we go to a lockdown. There is no planning certainty for entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, the rule of law has been weakened by you – against the entrepreneurs. You have not strengthened the social state, you have weakened it in this crisis, and that is difficult, because if the fire brigade went to a place of employment and there is burning a house and it would act like this federal government, every house in that country would burn down, ladies and gentlemen, dear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This cannot be access to crisis management. This cannot be the opinion of a strong state. The entrepreneurs in this country will certainly no longer be trusted. We have offered the cooperation, the hand remains stretched out, I doubt you will ever take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e41346	Mrs Carmen Jeitler-Cincelli is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e41368	Madam President. Dear women ministers! It is about the revision of the Federal Act to improve local supply and fair conditions of competition. Mr. Lercher, I always find this exciting. We are, I think, actually at the same age, and I always find it exciting when you have such a visa that you think you are: Okay, he really has a completely different world than me. Of course, I come from a company, I am a business representative and I see what happened to the companies. It is also logical that you have a different perspective, of course. But when I see that 40 billion euros have been moved, that there are still some help and no-one else who has nowhere abroad, in which everyone is looking for Austria and saying: I would have liked to have had that! where many of them did not have to attack their resources at all, then I note that this is something that has been very well done, Mr President. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silvan]] [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Disoski.]] It is also because we have a situation in which we did not know how to land inside, and we do not know how to develop. We don't know what's in two weeks, what's in four weeks, what's in six weeks. What we know is that we can all give together the best to create structure and stability in this country, and not to throw it permanently on any era that is over. [[Call to the SPÖ: There's nothing like that!]] We have a chance now. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Disoski.]] But now I would like to address our issue, namely food retailing. The food retail is dominated, we know, of individual, of a handful or a few more big players. It is important – Mr Vogluer said before – that we create a protection and fair competitive and market conditions. In my opinion, they are the basis for a sustainable economy, but what we really need – I see that again from my entrepreneurial context; as an agency, I have worked very much with commercial companies, with production companies – is: There needs to be a new culture here as well. I often hear in the discussions of advertising cost subsidies – this pressure that exists here I can understand very well, and I think it is great if you perhaps finish a small part of your production in the yard shop itself and then have the opportunity and the opportunity to build up an additional stand there in a sustainable way. I believe that this anonymous body of appeal is quite good, although I do not believe that much has to be evaluated after that, because that works from today to tomorrow, I do not believe anyway. For someone to really report there, to seek mediation, I think it takes movement, and I also ask the big trading companies to be really open about this and to allow a new culture of one another. Mr Matznetter, perhaps very soon, because in your attitude and tonality you are always so instructive of what I appreciate in principle, I also teach you something today: It's called Gold Plating – yes, Gold Plating, not Golden Plating! – and in this case it is none. There are two points in law which have been added to the directive, and which have been supplemented to address Austrian conditions, which my colleague Hoefinger formulated earlier. There are small countries like Switzerland, for example, which still have huge corporations. There are huge companies in small countries, but just the other way round, and our economy is the same as it is. The paragraphs that have been changed here are adaptation to Austrian market conditions. That is good and right, because it is a matter of proportionality. If, at the end of the day, I hope this is my last speech before we go to the Christmas break, all of us try to shop regionally, try to buy as regionally as possible, try to support the little ones as possible, then there would not be this whole topic at all. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e41419	Mr Walter Rauch is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e41444	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Women Federal Minister! High house! Yes, we are from one lockdown to the other, and we are the only ones in Europe who hang these lockdowns. You can see it, too. economic development, how the economy is developing in Austria, and what assistance measures are needed – where However, at the same time they change them from one lockdown to the other, but on the other hand they do not guarantee businesses, especially both workers and employers. Ladies and gentlemen of the government and honourable ladies on the government bank, you have escaped this pandemic! It has escaped you, because this hard lockdown for tourism and for trade has, of course, an impact on all levels. Whether this is the private room rental company, whether it is the individual small business, in the final effect, liquidity – Mrs. Federal Minister, you have addressed it – is no longer given to the companies. This requires measures that support these enterprises in the final effect, both from the banking side and also from the public authorities, the financial office, and also from social security. With regard to the safety of farms and, above all, the benefits which have been withdrawn and which are now requested accordingly, I must say: There are fifty examples – fifty examples! – where support does not work, where liquidity bottlenecks are handled in such a way that it is difficult in the final effect to maintain the operation at all and to lead it constructively and structuredly into the future. This lacks perspective, since of course it needs much more action and also structure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Online trade has already been mentioned. I just mention Austria's department store as an example. This is actually a parade example, with which we – with this system – are unique throughout Europe, because if you go here today and create a homepage in two or three months and want to compete with Amazon or any corporations, this will be very, very difficult. If someone would have done that, if someone had done so, that would be, I think, a high-principal suspect. Very briefly, Mr Matznetter and the request concerning ‘Sofortige Covid-Help for businesses in the lockdown’: We support it. This is a very good request, because we believe that it is high time to support businesses accordingly, with immediate measures both in the tax field and in the social security field.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e41492	Mrs. Köstinger has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e41513	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I am very pleased that we are today discussing the proposal for the implementation of the directive on the prohibition of unfair business practices here in the National Council. It is a very, very important issue, which should be sustained by small producers in Austria in particular along the value chain. We've heard it today: The situation has been stagnating for a long time, especially in the case of producer prices, but if you look at the prices in the shelf, you can see that there are price increases that consumers have to pay. However, those who at the end remain very often and remain on the track are the farmers, including the producer communities. This is something that the EU Commission has been looking at very closely in recent years, and the present of this directive on unfair business practices has really happened at European level for the first time. For many years, if not decades, one has always believed that salvation is in growth – the opposite is the case. Our economy lives on a variety of small and medium-sized producers, regional producers, and they simply need to be strengthened along this value chain. This is what we are doing today with the implementation of the European directive. I also think it is very important to address these issues. Consumers are willing to pay a little more for products whose origin they know their origin, of which they know how they are produced, and consumers are willing to support, above all, Austrian producers. What it needs is just fairness. Over the last decades, we have seen that a few people, especially in the food trade, divide the market – these are three in total in Austria. There is only one country in the European Union, that is Finland, which has a similar market concentration in the field of food retailing, as is the case in Austria, and we have repeatedly heard many complaints from producers, producer communities, small and medium-sized enterprises that have told stories about how they are exposed to this market power. It's over now! For the first time, clear rules apply along the food chain: no more short-term cancellations, no more unilateral changes to the delivery conditions, no refusal to enter into a written contract. It's been addressed that we'd run Gold Plating. – I really want to contradict this! It was particularly Mr Loacker who pointed out a point where I was particularly concerned that we should bring him in – perhaps he has a second to listen once because it is about competition: [[towards Abg. Loacker with Abg. Lukas Hammer says:]] We have taken a pass on producers – this is not just about farmers, because there is not the one farmer who supplies Rewe, but usually producer communities of noodles producers, sausage producers, a wide range of companies that supply in the food retail trade; [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] You just need to look at the shelves. What we are now making possible is that these farms are no longer being invited to supply only to a food chain by means of a gag agreement, but that they can do so in the case of several. That means that there are no more exclusive supply contracts, but producers can also conclude a supply contract with a competitor – and that is what competition is called. For the first time, we give the companies the opportunity to choose different partners, with which they are not only bound to one. That is why it is also so important that we have taken this up, and I would like to thank the honourable Members who have been very helpful in negotiating it accordingly. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Fischer.]] I have already mentioned it and I would like to address it again: Of course, as Minister of Agriculture, I am particularly concerned with the original producers, farmers and farmers, who are the most important recipients of the implementation of this directive. There are thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises supplying in the food retail trade; and It is precisely these are also covered by this directive, and they now have exactly the same opportunities to oppose the whole and strengthen their market power. I really think that's very important. The second important step we are taking is the establishment of the ombudsman's office. There is a fear factor that is not to be denied. In part, the companies are really afraid to report, even to tell the stories that happen to them in the very unilateral price negotiations. For example, if 10 tons of apples are ordered, 8 tonnes sold in retail food and 2 tonnes returned and not paid, this is a problem – not for the food group, but for the farming community, which naturally has to throw away the perishable goods after three weeks. It is precisely this that we are proposing a bar, with the ombudsman there is the possibility of reporting exactly such wrongdoing. This ombudsman's office will be free of discretion, will be independent, the employees will be subject to the silence of office. There will be an annual reporting of the first contact point, and the reports will then be published accordingly so that we can break this whole system so that we can give small and medium-sized producers, producers and not least farmers more market power, more fairness along the food chain. I should like to thank Mrs. Margarete Schramböck for her cooperation; she is responsible for the implementation. I believe that we are creating a regulatory framework here that is very much in line with the Austrian structure and, above all, our businesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e41595	Mrs Eva-Maria Himmelbauer has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e41616	Madam President. Values Women Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! We've heard it several times today: Three legislative initiatives have been combined among these agenda items; my previous speakers have already reflected on these legislative projects many times and have responded to them. I agree to take only two points out, and it is very appropriate to speak to Mrs Bundesminister Köstinger, because of course I am also concerned with addressing the strengthening of production plants to the large establishments in the food trade or the processing industry. I come from the rural area myself. Our region is also characterised by agricultural holdings, not only farmers but also commercial farms which are active in food production, in supply, in production, in further processing and, of course, are also an important economic factor. They are mainly small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We all, I think, want Austrian products to be found on the shelf, we want quality and regionality to be found, and this is what we need to support here. The surveys always confirm to us that consumers want regional products. But I am also aware that worlds lie between the wish expressed and the purchase decision itself. We also do not want to eliminate healthy competition, but we want the enterprises – the small and the large – to meet at eye level. the imbalance, the market imbalance, cannot be exploited, because it is difficult: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cornelia Ecker]] The listing, the placement on the shelf, the pricing are hotly disputed areas, but of course it goes beyond. You have to be inside once if you are a subcontractor, if you are standing on the shelf, you have to be able to meet the pressure that is burdened on one. The ban on unfair practices, such as excessive payment periods or short-term cancellations in the case of perishable goods, will be applied to a bar, and there will be a complaint agency to which one can contact to be advised where complaints can be lodged or even an instigation can be triggered. - That's the first point. The second point, somewhat shorter: I just want to say thank you. The last of the three items on the agenda concerns the extension of the test roads to operations, and I would simply like to thank all the companies that have established a test road in recent months. We are now extending this support to March 2022, and I would like to thank you for supporting us here. It is an important factor in the safety of our environment, in the fight against pandemics, especially shortly before Christmas holidays. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e41670	Mrs Cornelia Eckerzu is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e41695	Madam President. Women Ministers! I welcome the intention of the directive on unfair trade practices of the European Union, particularly with regard to the position of farmers in relation to large groups. In my view, however, the government template, which is intended to transfer this directive into national law, is a complete, smooth issue error. Instead of raising our native small farmers – and not only the small farmers but also the smaller entrepreneurs – to a negotiating level with the large food companies, we have heard that this proposal for a law will create new, extremely complex government systems that not only cost a lot but also are not necessary from our point of view. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To use gold plating for it, to advise lobby interests and to consider the grandagrarians in a law in which they have no place, I think I am extremely concerned, Mrs. Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In implementing this Directive, the priority should be to protect small farmers, small farmers and smaller entrepreneurs. The EU has therefore deliberately set the threshold for protecting this law at an annual turnover of 350 million euros. What does Minister Köstinger do? – They set a threshold of up to 1 billion euros. [[Interference of Federal Minister Köstinger.]] Now I ask you at this point – I come from the direct marketing myself –: 1 billion euros of sales does not make us anyone, not even mergers of several direct producers. [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Köstinger.]] No one does that, and that's not a small business, as my previous speaker just said. Which world do you live in? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Who are your profiters, Mrs. Minister? – I can tell you who your profiters are: not the small farmer around the corner, the small producer; they are your donors, Mrs. Minister. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] Your commitment to the big ones and your donors has therefore paid off once again. The lobby office is located at Stubenring 1, and it has done its job bravouros. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, the large donors will show themselves. But those who stay on track with this tough client policy are those people and farms who would really need protection from the big ones. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[17:38]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e41897	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Mr Christoph Stark, you are now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e41924	Women Ministers! Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen! Short trip to the previous speaker: Whoever is constantly putting on the already very worn plate of the donors has either not understood something or wants to deliberately fade in another direction to distract from the actual topic. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The subject in itself was well explained. Unfortunately, they are trying here again to spread sand into the eyes of people and to sell a good product badly; I'm sorry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Today, we are discussing the revision of the Federal Act to improve local services and conditions of competition, and I should like to mention a few figures: 910 000 tonnes of meat, 3.85 million tonnes of milk, 2.17 billion pieces of eggs, 5.4 million tonnes of cereals and much more. What are these numbers? – These are the figures of last year’s production of farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the numbers we know that this is not possible in the off-off sale. These are production numbers of producers who are in the domestic market and who are associated with local food dealers. And if we want domestic agriculture to continue to be successful, then it takes more than just a confession to buy something from the farmer around the corner. It takes more, it also needs legal protection, it needs a legal structure so that agriculture can be successful in combination with the domestic food trade. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are doing this today with this law, with this implementation of the European directive. I am convinced, as a regional MP and as leader speaker in Styria, that we are taking an important step here, in addition to the regional commitment to creating a legal framework for regional action. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e41988	Next speaker: Mrs Karin Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e42009	Madam President. Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, for 22 months now we have been in a pandemic with serious consequences of health policy, but the social and economic consequences are also serious. What did you do about it? – After all, you have a package of 28 billion euros – at least! – Adhesive to address these negative effects. But have these funds also arrived? – My colleague Matznetter referred to it: too late, sometimes not at all, if, then too hesitant or too lowly paid out. Ladies and gentlemen, that can't be it. We always hear from you: It all worked well, we helped quickly! - Don't! Listen to the EPCs, which unfortunately no longer exist, because they had to close the doors irrevocably! What about new start-ups? – They were there, but have also left again because the help has not come. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What did you do in the government? Have you provided security, confidence? - No, I don't. This has already been raised by my colleague Mr Lercher: We would have expected legal certainty, but unfortunately we did not see any signs of this. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Many companies have felt left alone, abandoned. Dear colleagues from the ÖVP! We now also hear from your Federal Chancellor: Yes, we want a new collaboration, we maintain a new style! – But an amendment just minutes before the debate, a few minutes before the vote, is that the new style? That will probably be too little as a positive signal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] As the Court of Auditors, I would like to mention one point: the Cofag, the Covid-19 financing agency. 19 billion euros of tax money have flown there and are paid as support from there. Can we find out who got when? – No, unfortunately not because you refuse to control us with the help of the Greens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cannon]] They say again: Counsellor. – An advisory board shall sign a secretory clause, which shall not talk about what it has experienced there in the meeting. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] Give it to me. You refuse transparency and you are afraid of control! That's so simple. Shame! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, to the members of the Government: Life You're this new style that you're announcing to us! Voices President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Make sure you have transparency in the Cofag and take steps through which you can regain confidence! The citizens deserved this honestly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e42105	Mr Kurt Egger has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e42127	Madam President. Estimated Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors via live stream! I had almost a tear in mind earlier when Mr Lercher took care of the entrepreneurs of this country. I am glad that he also came to see how important they are, and I will remind him on occasion when he falls back into the old class struggle. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Ecker did not fully understand one of these laws, namely that the direct marketer is therefore a direct marketer, because it markets directly and does not deliver into the retail of foodstuffs. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] To the colleague Hauser, who spoke of the derailment or that the pandemic of the Federal Government has been removed, he said: The only thing that has escaped in the last 21 months is the language of the liberals and the untruths that are told there. That's what you've got out of here! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I've decided to talk a little bit about operational testing. Because Mr Loacker mentioned this: Of course, the extension is only valid until the end of March, but the law is valid until the end of the year, because these commitments also have to be settled, which also needs a corresponding framework, so that this can be done by the establishments. There have been over eight million tests on the operational tests – this is an up-to-date record, from this week on – in almost 5,000 establishments. This figure shows very precisely how important it is to continue to invest in this area, because this is an additional test offer. We will not only need vaccination, but we will continue to be a close network – a new virus form is in front of the Door – especially in the PCR tests, to interrupt these infection chains, and also to ensure that the economy, the businesses, remains open. Peter Haubner also mentioned: We will be very committed to ensuring that there are 3G in the workplace, because 2G is not practical.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e42193	No one is reporting on this. That concludes this debate. Is there the wish for a final word on the part of reporting? - There's no one there. Before we come to the votes, I ask the political groups whether we can proceed with this immediately. – I see consent, then I will do the same. We shall immediately proceed to the votes I shall take separately from each of the Committee's proposals. The vote on agenda item 21 will be taken at the next voting time. Draft federal law, which amends the Federal Act to improve local care and conditions of competition, in 1167 of the Supplements. Mr Loacker, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Mr Angerer. Therefore, I will first vote on the parts of the bill concerned by the proposed amendment, taking into account the demand for separate vote, following the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted. Members of the Loacker, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of § 5a para. 2 Z 6. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall immediately be voting separately on this part of the draft law as it stands. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment on paragraph 14 and Annex I. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. Who agrees? – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading, I am looking for a sign. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. In this way we shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Erwin Angerer, Mr Angerer, on 'the security of the operation of village shops for the rescue of local services by changing the rules of commerce'. Who is following this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall then proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Cornelia Ecker, colleagues, on 'effective support for small farmers instead of gold-plating for the agricultural industry'. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 22: Draft federal law amending the Accounting Act, the Chamber of Commerce Act, the Law on Economic Loyalty and Other Laws, including title and receipt in 1213 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees to this bill, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We'll come to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall vote on agenda item 23: Draft operational testing law in 1214 of the Supplements. Mr Haubner, Mr Götze, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Mr Haubner, Mr Götze, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment or amendment concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 2 and the amendment to the following paragraphs. Who's calling for it? – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Who's for it? – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. The draft law is adopted by a majority majority at third reading. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Erasim, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Sofortige Covid-Hilfen für Betriebe im Lockdown'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. [[Call the SPÖ: Madness!]] [[17:53:47]] 24. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 2069/A by Mr August Wöginger, Mr Mag. Markus Koza, colleagues in the Federal Law amending the Social Insurance Act and the Agricultural Social Insurance Act (1224 d.b.) 25. Point Report and request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the draft federal law amending the law on night work (1225, e.g.) 26. Point Report and request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the draft federal law amending the Federal Law on the control of pandemic-related poverty (COVID-19-law poverty) (1231, e.g.) 27. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 2067/A by Mr August Wöginger, Mr Mag. Markus Koza, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Care Money Act (1235 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e42299	We shall now proceed to items 24 to 27 on the agenda, on which the debates will be held under one. I welcome Mr. F. Mückstein in our midst. With regard to the various Committee reports, I refer to the agenda. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Verena Nussbaum is the first to speak in this debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e42333	Madam President. Mr Sozialminister! High house! I would like to talk today about the motion for a resolution on Covid-19 law poverty. The question is that the Federal Government would like to spend 10 million euros on additional resources to combat poverty for children and young people with regard to homelessness and security of care. This is, of course, also in my mind, and I and my group welcome this request. However, I must say that I already want a more sustainable solution than a one-time donation for projects, because it is still a shame that there are children in Austria who are affected by poverty and have to live in poverty. Every fifth child in Austria suffers from poverty and exclusion, which is almost 350 000 people affected. Poverty in childhood usually affects the whole life, for those who are poor in childhood often continue to do so for a lifetime. There are no prospects and possibilities. This is a cycle you can hardly escape. It is all the more important that all children and young people in Austria have the possibility They have a good education and training, because they are the workers of tomorrow. We demand – and have called for this for a long time – a babysitting billion to ensure that all children in Austria are well cared for. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We also need to think further, to become more visionary, for example, to think about child protection, which, depending on the income of parents, ensures a good life for all children. Unfortunately, however, it is still the case that 52 000 children and young people cannot afford a healthy and balanced diet. However, if every child had a right to an afternoon care, this problem would also be solved, and we could provide all children with a warm lunch; but as we know today, this has deliberately prevented the former Chancellor Sebastian Kurz. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e42390	Mr Markus Koza has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e42412	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we decide not only to support 10 million euros as support for projects in the Social Ministry in the field of Delogging Prevention, the fight against poverty in the area of homelessness and the fight against child poverty, but – and I am particularly pleased to say this – we also decide today on a first part of an eco-social package of measures against inflation. Why? – Because the current inflation rates and current price increases – we are currently 4 percent – are, of course, especially households, especially families, especially people with low incomes, facing major financial challenges. The fact that the Covid crisis, the Corona crisis, and the measures that must be put in place, have led to the fact that, even in recent weeks, unemployment, although low, has increased again and that, in particular, people who have been or have been in unemployment for a long time, have had a harder time to get back into employment and thus into income. That is why action is urgently needed to support these people as much as possible. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] However, we need targeted measures, measures that actually take place where those concerned are, measures that directly support where we really reach people who need help urgently. One thing is clear to us: As important as such short-term financial assistance is, in the medium and long term only the path out of fossil energy will help us, only the way out of oil, coal and gas, especially when it comes to oil, coal and gas as heat energy. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the ÖVP]] This is not only a climate policy issue, but also a central social issue. That's exactly why the Ministry of Climate Change is making hundreds of millions of euros available in the next few years for boiler exchange, thermal renovation and old-house renovation, just to get out of this heat crisis, out of this energy crisis. What are the measures that are actually being put in place? – There are one-time payments of 150 euros for people who receive unemployment benefit, who are in need of emergency aid, for minimum pensioners who receive the compensation, for people in minimum security, in social assistance and also for students who are in receipt of study grants. That's the one pillar. We will decide these in the next two days. The second part is: The tax reform is partly preferred by one and a half years, especially in the part that concerns the weakest in incomes. The social security bonus, which will now come, will bring pensioners and employees with small and medium incomes up to 250 euros in future. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] Furthermore, what is already known: The climate bonus is paid out throughout the year in 2022, although CO2 prices are only used in the second half of the year. At the same time, the green electricity contribution is also suspended by an average of 68 percent for 2022. In other words, the budgets will receive a few hundred euros in addition to being able to cope with this costing. You see, the Federation has done its homework. It is now a question of the countries following up, namely those countries which have not yet done anything or too little. I would just like to remind you: Countries are responsible for heating costs subsidies. There are very obvious differences. The black and green Tyrol, for example, knows a heating fee of 250 euros; the red Burgenland – look here! –: EUR 165; Upper Austria, black and blue ruled: only 152 euros; the black and green Vorarlberg between 150 euros and 270 euros. That is to say, there is still a lot of follow-up needs for the federal states. I also knew where the money could come from. In fact, the federal states all have energy supply companies, some of which are owned by a hundred percent of the countries. Interestingly, those who shout the loudest are: Keep the thief!, even those who do least to make sure their energy companies make sure that their customers get good prices and offers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Interestingly, the Germanys of the Energy Alliance – Vienna, Burgenland, Lower Austria – and also Carinthia – were the fastest with the increase in electricity and gas prices and, of course, were also a red state – and the Styria, red and black. For example, the profits could actually be used for higher heating costs for the poor in these countries. We will observe this very closely. Keep the thief! to call, the federal government pays everything, and we countries are leaning us back comfortably – that will definitely not play it, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, I would like to see the amendment tabled by Mr August Wöginger, Mr Mag. Markus Koza, colleagues on the report and request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs (1231, e.g.) concerning a federal law that amends the German law on the fight against pandemic-related poverty (COVID-19 law poverty) (1231 d.b.). This is exactly the EUR 150 for minimum insurance beneficiaries and for those involved in a study grant. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[18:02]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e42605	The overall amendment was presented in the broad outlines and, in my opinion, was also distributed to all Members. If that's the case, he'll be negotiating. Please speak, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e42629	Madam President. High house! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! [[The salutation also in sign language:]] Love deaf people! The next item on the agenda is a few more acid drops: Gifts for the clients of the ÖVP; also the SPÖ may rejoice. The following generations and the generality that these gifts need to finance once again do not matter to the old parties. If you are working at night in Austria, you will not only receive night supplements for this work, but also have the opportunity – women with 52 and men with 57 – to go in early retirement, even discount-free since 2020. Of course, it is clear that such a system cannot be financed without accompanying measures and that the enormous cost of it must be allocated to the general public. That is why the law provides for a special contribution rate to be abolished in the case of night-time heavy work, so that there is at least 75 percent contribution coverage for the special pension. Since the unwise pension decisions of 2019, however, the special pension allowance is definitely unfinancing. According to the budget estimate, the contribution coverage in 2020 is even reduced to micy 58 percent. That is why this new law is needed today in order to continue to be in breach of the special pension scheme, which would provide for an increase in the special pension contribution rate in order to achieve at least 75 % of the contribution. The fact that in this case only we are re-entering NEOS for subsequent generations and those people who retire with the age of regular retirement is very bad. The fact that the parent protection schemes from the ASVG are transferred to the GSVG and the BSVG is in principle good, but there is nothing to object to. Unfortunately, however, the ÖVP manages to build into every BSVG novelle a farmer's gift: Wait, Christmas is at the door! In this case, the ÖVP and the Greens shall establish a regulatory authority for farmers' pension schemes. This regulation not only bypasses Parliament, but it also creates the basis for farmed backroom deals. But, well, the pandemic has brought the ÖVP and the Greens to the taste of regulatory empowerment. This means that no more bothering parliamentary debates are to be held. We agree with the proposal in TOP 26, but I would like to make one point: Austria is one of the countries of the European Union that spend the most on social protection. In times of non-crisis, expenditure amounts to 30 percent of GDP. A social security system should protect people from poverty, especially in times of crisis, but it seems that our system cannot meet these demands. Therefore, it would be essential to discuss a uniform, simpler social security system after the Corona crisis. More money for the same measures does not protect against poverty. That is why we need a successful, effective and unbureaucratic social network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e42675	Mr Christian Ragger has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e42696	Madam President. Estimated Minister! I can add a few implementing words to the item on the agenda 26, to the fight against poverty, especially because the budget has been set up in such a way that an increase of EUR 10 million has now been made by means of a joint request from the Greens and the EIA. I would like to pay attention to the fact that these EUR 10 million for projects in the field of youth unemployment and the emergency situations of young people and children are basically a drop on the hot stone. This is seen by considering other figures, for example, that a woman with a diploma training after 30 years gets professional experience 1770 euros. For months or almost a year, this government, both the Greens and the ÖVP, has ensured that the Coronafünf has been paid out. This does not happen, but you do meters on the other side by agreeing with the advertising industry in a manner that is very friendly and basically secured a bold contract there, so that you can shine and present yourself in every form. The EUR 10 million for young people and people living in poverty is nothing compared to the conclusion of a framework agreement of EUR 180 million with the Federal Procurement Society and the placing of media agencies at EUR 30 million. This results in a total of 210 million euros simply for advertising. You must ask yourself, ladies and gentlemen, whether this request is not ridiculous at the end of the day. Accordingly, I should like to make a motion for a resolution on the submission of these statements: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[18:09]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e42826	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Alois Stöger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e42851	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! I'm talking to the TOP 24. This is a matter of deciding on amendments concerning maternity aid in the GSVG and the BSVG. This is in itself a good proposal that we would like to support. However, we have had to demand a separate vote because the government parties are already doing something that is actually not common in all social security legislation. In Austria, we have a right to benefit, which the National Council decides, and in the case of the occupational occupational pension, a change is made. For the first time, the National Council will no longer find out what the right of performance is, but by chance only the Minister of State. We want to eliminate Parliament on this issue. If one makes such a scheme in the ASVG, it always needs the approval of the National Council's main committee. It is not possible for the workers or the employees to do so without Parliament. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we have said very clearly in the Committee: We'll give you the hand! Take care of it to this day! - You didn't do anything. The government always says she's going to the opposition anyway. No, we want the same right for all, so we want a separate vote and we also reserve the right to look at it very critically. It cannot be, as the colleague has said, that we are again introducing special rights for the farmers who do not have all the others over the back door. Otherwise, the bill is in order.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e42881	Mrs Rebecca Kirchbaumer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e42905	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home in front of the screens or via live stream! Yes, the corona pandemic still has us, and unexpectedly still has a firm grip on us. This also weakens many farms. The night work contribution, which should have been increased, we leave – together – to 3.8 percent in the coming year. That is why we support the local businesses, and I would also like to thank all those who vote in favour. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Another point is pregnant women who work unvaccinatedly as close-to-body service providers. Unfortunately, as this group of persons is not vaccinated, we must ensure that it is not infected. That is why we will also have to extend the special exemption until March 2022. For me, the question is why women, especially pregnant women, cannot be vaccinated. The specialists and the vaccines strongly advise that it is very, very important that these pregnant women be vaccinated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] This also immunizes the unborn children. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] It is basically incomprehensible to me how one cannot accept this vaccination. Why do we have to go here as a government and introduce a vaccination obligation, although we have enough vaccine, although every person, every Austrian and every Austrian in Austria can be vaccinated completely freely? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Singer.]] Many diseases, such as measles, smallpox, and child paralysis, used to be a scourge. At vaccination, no human has asked what side effects there are, who the manufacturer is or where it comes from. I'm a mother myself. It's been a while since my daughter was vaccinated in her first year of life. I think most don't even know what's actually being vaccinated or what's a six-fold vaccination, which is the Rotavirus you can vaccinate against. In my view, it is grossly negligent if you do not accept this vaccination. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] One example is the pneumococcal vaccination. Before this vaccination occurred, 80 children in Austria suffered from pneumococcal diseases every year, ten of which died annually. Thank God we have this vaccination, and thank God no more children need to die of this disease. If you make a trip to Africa or anywhere else, you have to go vaccination. - Yeah, sure! That's not a problem at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] Well, I hope I can do it as soon as I really want to make this trip. And then it's not about side effects, then it's not about what the manufacturer's name is, it's not about anything. Only with the Covid vaccination do we know exactly where it comes from, as it is called, transparency is therefore relatively large. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] In conclusion: Don't be intimidated by the FPÖ! Don't go along with this path, because this fear-making is in no way acceptable. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[Abg. Stefan: People choose voluntarily!]] You have to take the fears seriously and don't be afraid. Important is: If you are afraid of it, but want to be vaccinated, go to your doctor of trust and let it explain yourself! [[Abg. Belakovich: Exactly!]] I'm a hundred percent convinced that fear will then be taken from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43022	Mr Wolfgang Mückstein has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43044	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Over 1.5 million people in Austria are affected by poverty. We have undertaken in the government programme to halve the number of people affected by poverty in Austria. This requires many measures at several different levels. The corona crisis and the current rates of inflation require rapid action. Therefore, as the Federal Government, we want to support people who can afford the higher bills at least in the current crisis situation. There will therefore be a comprehensive package which will increase the cost of several groups of people. an amount of EUR 150. These are, on the one hand, unemployed people, those are people who depend on social assistance or minimum insurance, those are pensioners whose pensions are so low that they receive a compensation allowance, these are students. In the Ministry of Social Affairs, there is provision for the compensation of pensioners who receive a compensation allowance and for members of social assistance or minimum insurance. I am glad that, in the current situation, we can help those people who depend on the last social network. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Furthermore, we want to continue to help particularly vulnerable groups of people in the Social Ministry, helping them to reduce the covid-related poverty consequences in order to counteract the consolidation of poverty. I am therefore particularly pleased that we have succeeded in putting up another EUR 10 million for projects to combat covid-related poverty. This will enable us to promote NGOs projects that are dedicated, for example, to combating homelessness, but also to child poverty. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43089	Mr Christian Drobits has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43110	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I can speak on Agenda item 25, on the Night Heavy Labour Act and on its amendment. I would like to point out that these changes require cohesion in the pandemic. I can say that, of course, my group is working together by agreeing that the contribution base is suspended and continues to apply 3.8% in the Night Heavy Labour Act, although we know that there is less revenue for the Pension Insurance Agency, and although we also know that the Federal Government has additional expenditure of around 13.4 million euros. We also know that those entrepreneurs who now have less to pay in the pandemic are affected. That's what we're carrying. However, what we do not support is that the Night Heavy Labour Act is not amended today, that the health and care staff are not equated with the fact that the night's good hours and the time balances due under the Night Heavy Labour Act for Night Services are not paid out. When health spokesman Gaby Schwarz sits in front of me and I ask her if she knows that in Austria, there are now 2 000 people in the health and care sector who do not receive these night benefits or time allowances, because they are simply not paid out and some companies see a loophole in that they do not operate a care station, and we actually only need to change one word in that night heavy work law to end this injustice, this unfairness, then she will probably answer me: I don't want that to be unfair either! - Then I'll say: Today we could have ended this injustice and this unfairness together – which was also discussed with August Wöinger and the Greens. – But there is no cohesion, there is too little reason for the pandemic to help this staff. Especially those who are now in intensive care stations, those who are in nursing homes who are not paid out, are those who will soon leave these jobs because they say: I can't do it anymore! – They are still on the rise, although they can no longer be. I think that the fact that the ÖVP and also the Greens do not change the Night Heavy Labour Act today is a clear message to those who do not know today whether they will still work in the care sector tomorrow. That is what my group wants to prevent. We will not tire out – even if there are verbal promises – to fight for this group of persons, because Omikron is at the doorstep. We know that some are desperate. Mr. Federal Minister, the protection of the health of the care and health staff must be important to us, and in future we must try to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Schwarz, I would also ask you to consider in your group, together with Klubobmann Wöginger, whether it is not possible to do this more quickly, because it is perhaps only in the context of the care reform that I think it is too late in a few months. My group wants to enforce this change as quickly as possible in the Night Heavy Labour Act for the benefit of health and care personnel in Austria. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43162	Mr Laurenz Pöttinger has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43186	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I may refer to item 24, on the amendments to the Commercial Social Insurance Act and to the Farm Social Insurance Act. What's this about? – This scheme is already included in the ASVG. In the case of a premature A claim for a week's allowance shall be effected immediately after this change in the mother's insurance case. In der § 102a Abs. 4 GSVG cases have so far been paid out in retrospect. This has led to significant bottlenecks. This leads, in particular, to long periods of time without service and partly to situations threatening existence. In addition, there are some clarifications and adjustments, in particular it is made clear that an official medical certificate is no longer required for early entitlement to weekly or operational assistance. In the event of certain medical indications, a gynecologist's or an internist's certificate is sufficient. We are standing shortly before Christmas, this year was particularly difficult, and for Christmas we should or may wish for something. I would particularly like to see more peace in our country, more acceptance, more appreciation, more confidence. But I also wish for more vaccinations. Less infections I wish myself and less infected in hospitals. A special thanks goes to all those who take care of our patients every day and ensure that our good health system is maintained – thanks and all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43221	I call Mr Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43244	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! It is Christmas, and the citizens get a gift from the generous federal government, because it now gives them 150 euros. I hope that all those who get this - the pensioners and the students who get it, the unemployed who get this 150 euros - will say thank you very much because the Minister is so nice and the government is so nice. – Haider would have paid it cash at least, now it's transferred, it's somehow not so cool. But what does not change is the problem. If you think that inflation is eating too much, you're right, and if you think that prices are going too fast, you're right, but you can't do that with a one-time payment so big! You have to think about it. Where do you have a lever on how to permanently reduce this burden on people? If energy prices rise, then, for example, revenue from VAT increases. That's where you have to look at yourself: What is the rate of turnover on the energy? Or you have to look at what else you take – energy, electricity, green electricity, and so on – everything else. There you have to see that you free the right groups and relieve them permanently – and you don't even play the generous one now and then let yourself kiss your feet.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43274	Mr Ernst Gödl has now been referred to the debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43296	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I think we agree across all party borders that Austria has a very broad and well established social network. I believe that we agree that a lot of good measures are being taken at all levels – at federal, local and national level – so that people who cannot cope with everyday life by their own means experience support. It is purely constitutional, indeed, that general social assistance and poverty reduction are allocated to countries, but, of course, it is a fundamental task of the federal government and also of us as legislators here in Parliament to take action, especially if a particular situation requires it. The pandemic is such a special situation, and within the framework of the pandemic we have also created this COVID-19 law poverty – with a few paragraphs, but with very important effects. It is not just this 10 million euro that Mr Ragger has mentioned, which is included in this law, but the law has been in place for a long time. To date, 70 million euros have been allocated to vulnerable people in our country through this law. Today we are extending this law by two other paragraphs, 5c and 5d, with which we want to provide another EUR 10 million for projects in the field of combating child poverty and youth poverty. This is an important and rapid measure, Mr Loacker. – the Federal Government takes in EUR 100 million and allows a single payment of EUR 150 for a special group, namely those who are unemployed, social assistance beneficiaries, compensation recipients or study aid beneficiaries. For those People who need this are a very important help that we can offer here. Please don't give that a big deal. You shouldn't pretend to be something that's just gifted and almost unimportant. [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I would also like to point out those people who are active in the fight against poverty outside of politics and outside of this official Austria. As a sample project, I would like to address the Team Austria Table. There are many people, almost 6,000 volunteers throughout Austria, who collect food at regular intervals, mostly at two-weekly intervals, on Saturdays from trade chains, or also from farmers who spend them on needy people. In Austria, for example, some 19 000 households, which are not easy to find, are supported by 121 members of the Team-Austria-Tafel every week in basic care. I believe that this voluntary commitment to poverty reduction should also be particularly appreciated by us, and I would like to thank you very much for this. Thank you also for bringing it back to us with this COVID-19 law poverty that those people in Austria who have difficulty getting concrete monetary support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43344	Mrs Elisabeth Scheucher-Pichler has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43365	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Federal Minister! A nice evening! Today, with a further amendment of the Federal Care Money Act, we decide on the possibility of data exchange in order to ensure the care of those in need of care in quarantine and similar measures. The local authorities need access to certain information in order to take appropriate action. This is an extension of the deadline until 30.6., which we now decide unanimously, by the way. The Financial Balance Act expires at the end of the year, which is why today's amendment will also ensure the extension of the payment of the care allowance to local and local staff. We are responding to the continuing pandemic situation, ladies and gentlemen, and it is also about data transfer, for example, to pass on information on the corona vaccination to people in need of care. At this point my appeal: Please get the freshener, please let yourself be vaccinated! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Especially in the care sector, but also in senior work, the challenges are currently particularly large and varied. It is not easy for young people to have it at present, but it is not easy for seniors to do so: If we look at our older generation, we will continue to do so! These people have grown with great effort and with a great deal of endurance in this country. They have made Austria big and are now doing great things in the families and in the economy, they are an important part of this society. Let's look at the older generation! In his statement, Federal Chancellor Karl Nehammer made a clear commitment to the necessary care reform last week in his government statement, and I think it is important. The most important message is: We need more nurses, more nurses. There's a lot of things going on, but it's too little, and we have to do more. We need more support for the caring family members who take over 80 percent of care, and we need to implement what people want. They want to live as long as possible at home in their usual environment, in dignity and with good quality of life. It is therefore important to expand care at home, not only the care measures, but also additional services. This is what people want, and we have to implement it from the political point of view. Ladies and gentlemen! I am saying this because the end of the year is approaching, and I think we are all committed to the focus that we are setting next year in the field of care reform. After all, we have now put the community and some things on track in the nursing training, but I think that we must continue to get on with it, and there we are, I think, all agreed. Therefore, my final appeal: Let's stand together! Close the graves, we build bridges, we talk to each other, we search together for solutions in this country! I mean, this is the only way to go to a good and healthy future for Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43420	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I shall refer the votes to the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[18:34:42]] 28. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Markus Koza, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the General Social Security Act (1237, e.g.) 29. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 2119/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues on inflation compensation by 3.7% for all pensions up to the maximum pension of ASVG (pension adjustment 2022) (1238 p.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43472	We shall therefore proceed to points 28 and 29 of the agenda on which the debates will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Josef Muchich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43504	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! I can speak to the agenda items 28 and 29, increase special pensions and luxury pensions, and I invite you, let us remember: You from ÖVP and Greens have in the last plenary session removed the adjustment of the luxury pensions from the pension adjustment because you lacked the two-thirds majority at that time. Today you try it again with an initiative proposal, you still want to increase the luxury pensions by at least 1.8 percent. With a pension of 10 000 euros, an increase of 1.8 per cent is 180 euros per month – I remind you that the ASVG average pension increase is 28 euros per month, and that does not fit together, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It just doesn't fit in. People with small and medium incomes do not understand why you can open the door and door for even higher luxury pensions here – at a time of the pandemic in which many do not know how to pay their bills. In the previous year, it succeeded in jointly deciding to limit the luxury pension adjustment, which was adapted to the maximum increase in the ASVG-pensions. We, as SPÖ, valued ÖVP and Greens, want to do so this year too, that would be a maximum of 66 euros in addition per month. We will make an amendment, and as government parties, you will have the opportunity to decide on luxury pensions together with us, as in the previous year, a maximum cover of 66 euros. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to comment briefly on Mrs Belakovich's request, which in her request calls for an inflation compensation of 3.7% for all pensions up to the ASVG maximum pension. I would like to refer to our request for a slower flattening of the increase in pensions from 3 per cent to 1.8 per cent, not from 1 300, but from 2 000 euros. In addition, we have requested a heating allowance and a total cost compensation of 400 euros. This would increase small and medium-sized pensions more financially than the proposal of the liberals. Finally, I would like to appeal once again to ÖVP and Greens to agree to our amendment for a maximum of 66 euros to cover the increases in luxury pensions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[18:39]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43628	The amendment has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Markus Koza. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43652	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have already discussed this request in the last plenary session, and I have already explained, What is the problem with this? It is indeed true that the legislator in itself has the obligation to receive pensions – under quotation marks – “valued”. Therefore, there is the rule that pensions are adjusted and increased annually with the corresponding adjustment factor, de facto with inflation. Over several years, we have repeatedly adopted measures which have increased low incomes more than high incomes and which we have also covered. I'm really fine with that, too. My compassion for pensioners with special pensions, who receive less than 1.8 percent or the respective inflation, is very limited. I am also in favour of limiting special pensions. We may have to consider other measures, but the problem is that sometime a certain limit has been reached and that pensions lose so much value – this limit seems to be reached now, we have the corresponding figures from the Social Ministry – that we have to simply carry out this value so that we do not have problems with the Constitution, with property rights, with insurance rights, with insurance claims. That is why this year we are also in favour of giving these 1.8 percent of pensioners, who have “special pensions” and multiple pensions, as well as this is an essential point: It may not be that several low pensions, which are referred to, may be increased more than a pension reaching the same level. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to you whether there is a limit of a maximum pension increase of 1.8 percent or whether there may be some further increase in pensions. We see these constitutional problems; others obviously do not see them. I am still seeking support for this request. Allow me to address one more thing: It is said again and again – also by colleagues Beppo Muchich has now come back – that the pension increases we have made are supposed to be too low. Interestingly, the municipality of Vienna, 14 days before we took the pension decision here in Parliament, has already preceded this pension decision in the Vienna Landtag. I do not assume that the social democratic ruling of Vienna would take a non-social pension decision, so he could not have been so bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43691	Mrs Dagmar Belakovich has now been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43713	Ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions, if you don't come along now, what this is about: The issue is that large pensions, i.e. pensions of several thousand euros, should also be increased by 1.8 percent. The same decision was taken by the Federal Government concerning pensions of EUR 1 300 gross. So you have to be a little aware of the value of things. At EUR 1 300, the Federal Government and the representatives of the government parties are talking about large pensions, which, I would like to say, are increased by 1.8 percent, but the whole thing is going up month by month against the background of an inflation rate. We are in a very, very cold winter, the energy costs are exploding, but this does not seem to affect anyone in this Federal Government. It's obvious. Everyone doesn't care. One adheres to the laws and that was it. That, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, I simply find unsocial. When it came to caring, Mrs Scheucher-Pichler said: Let us also look at the older generation, because it has made the country big! – She's perfectly right, that's exactly what we would like. But then we are actually looking at the older generation and let us give it the share it has earned! It has led this country to prosperity, to the prosperity that this Federal Government is currently playing, ladies and gentlemen. The request we have made means that we want all pensioners to receive an increase of 3.7 per cent up to the maximum limit of ASVG, because 1.8 per cent are simply too low for pensions of 1 300 euro gross. This is a smooth expropriation, ladies and gentlemen, you are doing here.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43749	Mr Michael Hammer has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43770	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My previous speakers, particularly Mr Koza, have already given a very detailed opinion on the subject of special pensions. I would also like to say – I think we agree – that we are all concerned with making the pension system fair, and that we also want to limit special pensions, high pensions. However, we should be so honest that we must always keep in mind legal security, stability and reliability in all our efforts, and that the things we decide here are finally constitutional. We are always discussing this point. Mr Muchich, I think we agree: We last liked this decision so much that we also collect an absolute amount as a cover for the special pensions. But last year we did this with pensions, which must be said, from a certain point of view the pensions were covered. This time we have 1.8 percent as an adjustment factor for higher pensions, and this also affects these special pensions. This is a compromise and a good step in the fundamental effort to limit it. With regard to the request of the liberals, I am now somewhat inadvertent. In principle, everything is always too little for the liberal – wish for something! – the pensions are to be adjusted by 3.7 percent. But what I don't think is quite all about: We discussed this morning the adjustment of salaries in the public service, it amounts to between 2.91 and 3.22 percent – we all agreed that this is a proper adjustment, a proper guarantee of value – and the liberals voted in favour. It would not be comprehensible for the working people if one would then significantly increase pensions. There you have to work a little on the justice and the congruence of your requests. [[Abg. Belakovich: 1.8 percent!]] – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43805	Mr Gerald Loacker is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43828	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! It's the same every year, you know every year that a pension increase is coming, and you're surprised that the Murks is the same every year. The questions are: Where do we put a lid? – Logically, where the ASVG maximum pension limit is, there is no need to increase special pensions. What do you do with special pensions from the Chamber of Labour, the Chamber of Commerce, the National Bank, social security funds? [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Central Bank!]] This question also arises every time. What do you do with multiple pensioners who receive a pension from the National Bank and perhaps after the ASVG or who have a Federal official's pension and a GSVG pension? What about those who receive a pension from the countries under national law? The questions are the same each time, and from one year to the other you don't get it on the row, once to make sure that the thick fish that have their sheep at the expense of the little ones in the dry are covered. There's no such thing as that! You can't get rid of these multiple increases. They do not succeed in taking the countries into their own hands. Can't you get that baked once and for all? It must be possible to put a bar in these special pensions. I appeal for that every year, and again this year.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43863	Next speaker: Mrs Kira Grünberg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43887	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I think we all agree. Each one of us feels inflation, and each of us feels that daily life is partly more expensive. At the end of the month, pensioners with low pensions are the most affected: It often just doesn't go out anymore. That is why it makes sense for pensions to be increased in line with social retirement. We have already decided on the 2022 pension adjustment. Pensions below 1 000 euros will therefore be increased by 3 percent, pensions between 1 000 and 1 300 euros will be increased between 1.8 and 3 percent and all pensions above 1 300 euros by 1.8 percent. But what has not yet been regulated is the adjustment of special pensions, also because they are partly in the competence of the countries. The proposed Constitutional Provision is now intended to clarify that the adjustment of special pensions is also limited in accordance with the social standard according to the Pension Adjustment Act 2022. I think it makes more sense for us to treat all pensions at the same time. When we discuss the topic of pensions, about limits, about covers, about different seasons, we must also remember that there are many people in Austria who do not receive a pension at all. I speak of people with disabilities, of thousands of people with disabilities working in day-to-day structures or so-called workshops. These people can't pay for their pension themselves. They are not socially insured themselves, receive only a pocket money instead of a wage, and do not have the opportunity to build up a pension at all. I think it is very important to consider these people when we talk about retirement. It's just something changed so that sometime these people are socially insured and not only get a pocket money to be able to pay for their later pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43927	There is now no mention of this. That concludes this debate. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. [[18:52:17]] Vote on agenda items 24 to 29
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e43951	If all the political groups agree, we would now be entering the voting process immediately. Is that so? - Well, then I'll go like that. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 24: Draft federal law amending the Commercial Social Insurance Act and the Farm Social Insurance Act in 1224 of the Supplements. Hiezu is in favour of a separate vote by Mr Muchich. I shall therefore first vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall proceed to a separate vote on paragraphs 7 to 9 and § 387 para. 1 Z 2 and para. 2 in Z 10 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I'm looking for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. Vote on agenda item 25: Draft federal law amending the Night Labour Act, including title and receipt in 1225 of the Supplements. Who is in favour of this bill? – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 26 : Draft COVID-19 law poverty in 1231 of the supplements. There is a change in the overall amendment tabled by Mr Wöginger, Mr Kozinger, Mr President. I am therefore going to be immediately on the subject - - – we are in the voting process. [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Call the Greens:Koza!]] – Mr Koza, I apologize if I have mispronounced your name. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] So it is your overall amendment that is now before the vote. I shall therefore vote on this draft law as amended by the amendments as a whole. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who voted in favour of this draft law, together with the title and receipt in 1231 of the supplements, as amended by the amendments tabled by Members Wöginger, Koza, colleagues, and others, to give the same sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. – The draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 27: Draft federal law, which amends the Bundespflegegeldsgesetz, together with the title and receipt in 1235 of the supplements. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. The draft law was adopted unanimously at third reading. In this way we shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ragger, fellow Members, on 'Money for care instead of advertising contracts'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 28: Draft Federal Act amending the General Social Security Act in 1237 of the Supplements. Mr Muchich, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment. [[Abg. Bayr: (in the direction of the re-establishing delegates of the ÖVP) courage cannot be bought!]] I shall therefore first vote on the part of the draft law concerned by the proposed amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Since the present draft law and the said amendment contain a constitutional provision, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure expressly define the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Members of the Muchich, ladies and gentlemen have an amendment concerning § 759 para. 8 to be inserted. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those members of the House who are voting in favour of an acceptable sign. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, as this constitutional vote requires a two-thirds majority, there are a few excuses and not all of them, I would ask the authors to make a statement of the results of the vote in order to make this quite clear. I am looking for the Ecker, Steinacker and Zanger Members. [[The writers Cornelia Ecker, Steinacker and Zanger, together with President Bures, make the number of votes.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to stay in your seats, the voting process is still in progress. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. As you can see, this narrative is very difficult. I am very grateful to the writers for their efforts. [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, as well as on behalf of the Group of the European ……]] [[He-Rufe at the SPÖ in the direction of the House of Deputies.]] We have already had a discussion of voting and the during the voting process in the meeting room, and we always agree at the Presidential Conference to do so in such a way that, of course, all Members can take part in votes. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that I really started to call for this vote very early, and to the lute I also mentioned the special vote, namely the quorum. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Greiner, Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Matznetter.]] The result seems to me to be very narrow, and I have the impression that, before there is any doubt about this vote, it is useful to have a name-named vote. It is, ladies and gentlemen, according to § 66 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure may allow me to put a name-named vote. That's what I'm going to do. I would ask the Directorate of Parliament to make the preparations for a roll-call vote. - Thank you many times. To this end, I am interrupting the session for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e44082	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted session. You know, it is a nominal vote according to § 66 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure. The votes to be used are - - please, honourable Member. [[Abg. Lightness raises the hand to speak on business treatment.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e44126	Mr President, in a number of Presidents, we have agreed that we should vote in these votes. Now always wait until the clubs are ready. This willingness is not yet available on the part of the Social Democratic Club.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e44150	I thank you for this information. I am therefore going to interrupt the session again and ask if all the clubs are really ready. Before I interrupt the meeting: Mr. Klubobmann Wöinger. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e44177	Mr President. I mean, that really is not the case now, Mr Leichfried. In my view, the President-in-Office has handled this very, very neatly, and we are already in the voting process. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It is only because it was de facto difficult to establish the constitutional majority that the President has rightly put in place a nameable vote. That is why it is now no longer necessary to ask the political groups – they have been asked, and we are in the voting process.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e44218	Are there any further comments on the Rules of Procedure? Can I assume that there is actually a willingness to vote, ladies and gentlemen? – Then I can make it clear that the votes to be used are in the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Members, as well as the name “Yes” – these are the grey ballots – or “No” – which are the pink polls. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who voted in favour of this part of the draft law in 1237 of the Supplements to the Committee's report, 'Yes', those who voted against, 'No' vote in favour. Please be careful to throw only one vote mark. I now ask the author, Mrs Steinacker, to begin with the name call; Mr Zanger will replace them later. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e44260	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e44306	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted session. Mrs Klubobfrau Maurer spoke on business treatment. - Please, Mrs. Klubobfrau.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e44341	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! During this voting process, a colleague from the Social Democracy – I do not call it a name now, because I do not want to make any submissions – has tried to throw two pieces into the constituency. [[Ah? Call at the ÖVP.]] I would like to ask that we discuss this in the next presidency. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] It is, of course, true that a note must be drawn in the case of national votes. As I said, I don't want to say anything, I don't know which two pieces it was. In any case, this must be discussed in the Presidential. The Members of Parliament were attentive, noticed it and prevented the honourable Member from doing so, but I think we should still discuss it in the Presidential Assembly, because that does not give a good light to such votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e44381	Mr Leichtfried. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e44405	Mr President. Mrs Maurer, it can sometimes be a bit exaggerated in arrogance, I would have meant. [[Call the ÖVP:U committee! U-committee!]] The colleague who is concerned was, in contrast to you from the beginning – perhaps you should also note – and by the way, it happened to him that he had accidentally thrown in two interconnected papers with the same name on it – so it would have occurred at the latest in the counting, because no one here has two votes. [[Ah! Call at the ÖVP]] Fortunately, the folder has been made aware of it, and a note has been placed. So you don't have to suspect the worst in any of the same ways, Mrs. Colleague. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e44447	Are there any further statements on business treatment? I am now going to interrupt the session again and check whether votes have been twice cast. I'm going to interrupt the meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e44488	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am allowed to resume the interrupted session and, before I announce the results of the vote, also to announce that there were no double votes cast in the elections. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] 168 votes were cast, of which ‘Yes’ votes were: 106, No votes: 62. The present draft law has not been adopted with the required two-thirds majority. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Who is for this, I am seeking a sign of approval. – That is unanimously rejected. The present draft law has not been adopted with the required two-thirds majority. There is no law of the National Council within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure. That is why the third reading is missing. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Baumgartner, Berlakovich Nikolaus, Bernhard, Blimlinger, Brandtätter Helmut, Brandtätter Henrike, Brandweiner, Bürstmayr; Deckenbacher, Diesner-Wais, Disoski; Egger Kurt, El-Nagashi, Engelberg, Ernst-Dziedzic, Eßl; Fever, fisherman, förlinger; Gahr, Gerstl, Gödl, Götze, Count Tanja, Grebia, Great Farmer, Grünberg; Hamann Sibylle, Hammer Lukas, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechenberger, Himmelbauer, Hintner, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzner, Hörl, Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff; Jachs, Jeitler-Cincelli; Kaufmann, Kirchbaumer, Koza, Krisper, Kugler Gudrun, Kühberger, Künsberg Sarre; Lindinger, Litschauer, Loacker, Lopatka; Mahrer, Marchetti, Margreiter, Maurer, Melchior, Minnich; Neßler, Neumann-Hartberger, Niss Maria Theresia; Obernosterer, Ofenauer Friedrich, Ottenschlager; Pfurtscheller, Pöttinger, Prammer, Prince; Reiter, Ribo, Rössler; Salzmann, Saxinger, Scharzenberger, Scherak, Scheucher-Pichler, Schmübel, Schwarz Gabriela, Schwarz Jakob, Shetty, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Smodics-Neumann, Smolle, Sobotka, Stammler, Stark, Steinacker, Stocker, Stögmüller, Strasser; Tanda, Tashner, Tomaselli, Totter; Weber, Weidinger, Werner, Wöinger; Zarits Christoph, Zopf, Zorba. Members voted with ‘No’: Amesbauer, Angerer; Bayr, cup, Belakovich Dagmar, Bösch, Brückl, Bures; Deimek, Drobits; Ecker Cornelia, one-waller, Erasim; Fichtinger, Prince; Count Martin, Greiner Karin; Hafenecker, Hauser, Heinisch-Hosek, Herr, Hofer, Holzleitner; Kainz, Kaniak, Kassinger, Keck, Köchl, Köllner, Kollross, Krainer Kai Jan, Kucharovich, Kucher Philip, Kuntzl; Laimer, Lausch, Leichtfried, Lercher, Lindner; Matznetter, Muchitsch, Mühlberghuber; walnut; Oberrauner Petra; Ragger, Rauch, Tireberger, Ries Christian; Honey, Scroll, Seemayer, Silvan, Stefan, Stöger Alois, Strache; By; front winch; Wimmer Petra, Worm; Yildirim, Yılmaz; Singer Wolfgang.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e44685	We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 29: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1238 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is largely accepted. [[19:48:18]] 30. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 2091/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schallmeiner, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the Federal Law which provides for the allocation of federal assets to cover the need to combat the Covid-19 Pandemic (1267 d.b.) 31. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 2064/A by Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, Members of Parliament on a Federal Act amending the Health and Hospital Care Act, the MTD Act and the Law on Sanitary Care (1268 d.b.) 32. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 2065/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Drugs Act (1269, e.g.) 33. Point Report by the Health Committee on the proposal for 1969/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the 1950 Epidemic Act and the COVID-19 Act (1270, B.) 34. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 2061/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, Members and colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act (1271, e.g.) 35. Point Report by the Committee on Health on the proposal for 1894/A(E) by Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner, Mrs BSc, colleagues, on the immediate launch of an information campaign on the vaccination of children against the Sars-Cov-2 virus (1272 d.b.) 36. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1003/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on Anti-Fake News Campaign on the COVID-19 Pandemic (1273 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e44822	We now come to points 30 to 36 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The word is Mag.a Verena Nussbaum. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e44852	Mr President. Minister of Health! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are talking about a wide range of areas on these agenda items, some of which are extensions of measures due to the pandemic. I would like to dedicate my speech to Agenda items 35 and 36. This is about the anti-fakenews campaign for the Covid-19 Pandemic and the information offensive for the vaccination of children. I have repeatedly asked your predecessors, but also you, Mr Minister, to finally fight the pandemic with a concrete plan, a plan on which people can orient themselves. It would be so important that we no longer tumble from one lockdown to the other. The new variant now hangs like a damocles sword over us: Does it also come across Austria or not? How are the measures going? The real tragedy is that the former Federal Chancellor declared the pandemic to be over in spring and summer. Thus, these Fakenevs could spread without the government taking measures and simply depriving them of these fakes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz]] In fact, it is very sad that we need to vote on such a campaign today, namely, that the government is at last so far and that we have a campaign against these fakenews in order to raise the vaccination rate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The essential thing is that we as social democracy have always worked constructively to combat this pandemic. We have put forward proposals, they have never been adopted at the same time. I've said this before: It always takes three months for it to tickle that it is necessary and right what we demand. This was also the case with the information offensive for the children's vaccinations. We have already tabled this in autumn, and it has surprisingly taken another three months for us to agree to this request today. It was even postponed in the committee in October, when we already knew that the authorisation of the vaccination of children is imminent, but we have let it pass for months – better not we, but the Federal Government. Now the vaccination of children has already begun, and that is why it is now urgent to start an immediate education and information campaign. Mr Minister, do everything in your power to increase the vaccination rate in this country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e44897	Mr Ralph Schalmeiner is the next speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e44922	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! On the agenda items 30 to 31, we are dealing with a number of necessary and important measures in pandemic management – the colleague has already mentioned them. Among other things, we deal with the procurement of drugs already approved for the treatment of covid patients in hospitals when it is too late when people have not been vaccinated and therefore have to go to the hospital. There are now drugs to help us in particular to pick up and treat these serious cases in good time. The funds will be allocated to: First of all, the EUR 50 million, but the Minister has the opportunity to exceed this EUR 50 million at any time, if it is necessary, just as we do in the sense of international solidarity, if we have enough of these medicines in Austria to be able to hand them over to other countries. The second is: There are a number of extensions, particularly in the field of health and MTD professions. It is about facilitating the nostrifications, it is also about professional competence for medicaments, laboratory staff and co, especially with regard to vaccinations and tests. We also extend the permanent prescription for substitutes, which is that we want addicts to make themselves less frequent for the substitutes for their therapy in the pharmacy. In this context, I would like to make an amendment to Agenda item 31: [[Quoted print version removed]] The question is that we want to prevent staff bottlenecks in the area of disability care facilities and to extend time limits accordingly. On the other hand, I would like to make an overall amendment to Agenda item 33, which is also the subject of this. This should have been distributed in the house in the meantime. This amendment is about clarifying the minimum penalties, and a few red tape adjustments are being made. As has already been said, I would also like to bring this into line with this. Furthermore, we are also innovative at this item on the agenda in the ASVG. Here we are taking a number of adaptation measures which also come from other areas, such as those of the Corona Aids. This concerns, for example, non-contributory food vouchers for staff members. It is also about putting the Christmas voucher – that is, I think, very well colported in the media – just as last year, from EUR 183 to EUR 365, free of contributions. We also continue to raise the early retirement pension limit so that, in particular where the woman is in need of a man, he can help again in hospitals in order to make the best possible compensation for personal bottlenecks. I would also like to make another amendment to Agenda item 34. I hope that this morning, as all of our colleagues said, we have put in place a package of this kind of cost-effectiveness. Sigi Maurer presented this today with Gust Wöginger, and there is also another amendment. This amendment concerns the fact that the single payment of 150 euros for all persons entitled to a compensatory allowance is also to be anchored accordingly. Finally, I would like to address the two very good requests made by NEOS and SPÖ, which we agreed to during the last Committee meeting. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Worm]] Col. Worm thinks it's funny, I don't think it's so funny. Vaccinating children is important to vaccinate children helps us. [[Abg. Worm: I am sad, my colleague. I'm sad!]] The vaccination not only protects the children, but it protects us all. Due to a high vaccination rate, the infection event is dampened and lowered – that alone is already a reason. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Worm.]] Another reason, of course, is that we also protect the children with it. Col. Wurm may not know yet, but children can also suffer severe illness, even children can get Long Covid, even children can suffer from Covid – away from what you spread on fakeews every day. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Belakovich.]] When we are talking about Fakenevs, we are also talking about the NEOS request: We need a campaign against Fakenevs. Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens, my recommendation is: [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Belakovich]] Trust Mimikama and corrective rather than the FPÖ! In contrast to Mimikama and Correctiv, the FPÖ has a lot of nonsense. There you get at least really audited information. In this sense, I would like to ask for approval of the requests. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[19:57]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Total amendment tabled by Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, colleagues, to the report of the Health Committee on the proposal for 1969/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, colleagues on a federal law amending the 1950 Epidemic Act and the Act on COVID-19 measures (1270 d.a.) (TOP 33) The National Council wants to decide: The application for legislation referred to at the outset is as follows: ‘Federal law amending the 1950 Epidemic Act and the 19th Act of Action The National Council decided: Article 1 Amendment to the 1950 Epidemic Act The 1950 Epidemic Act (EpiG), BGBl. No. 186/1950, as last amended by the Federal Law BGBl. I No. 183/2021, is amended as follows: 1. In the heading to § 3 the point is missing. 2. In § 39, after the word ‘money penalty’, the word and sign sequence ‘of 218 euros’ is inserted. 3rd. In § 40 para. 1 after the word ‘money penalty’, the word and sign ‘of 145 euro’ shall be inserted. 4. In § 40 para. 2 the word ‘50 euro’ is inserted after the word ‘money penalty’. 5. In § 50 para. 8 the string “31.12.2021” is replaced by the word and sign “30. ==References====External links== 6. The following paragraph shall be added to § 50. 27 added: ‘(27) The heading to § 3 as well as the Sections 39, 40 and 50 para. 8 in the version of the Federal Law BGBl. I No. xxx/2021 enter into force with the day following the call; § 39 and § 40 as amended by the Federal Law BGBl. I No. xxx/2021 occurs at the end of the 30th century. ==References====External links== I No. 183/2021 with 1. July 2022 again in force.’ Article 2 Amendment of the Act on COVID 19 Action The Federal Act on provisional measures to prevent the spread of COVID 19 (COVID 19 Act – COVID 19 MG), BGBl. I No. 12/2020, as last amended by the Federal Act BGBl. I No. 204/2021, is amended as follows: 1. In § 5 para. 9 is replaced by the word “retirement”. 2. In § 8 para. 1, 5, 5a Z 1 and Para. 6 the word ‘145 Euro’ shall be inserted after the word ‘currency of’. 3rd. In § 8 para. 2 and 5a Z 2 shall be inserted each time the word ‘50 euro’ is replaced by the word ‘money penalty’. 4. In § 8 para. 3 and 5a Z 3 shall be inserted each time the word ‘money penalty of’ is replaced by the word ‘3 000 euros’. 5. In § 8 para. 4 and 5a Z 4 shall be inserted after the word ‘money penalty of’ the word sequence ‘360 Euro’. 6. The following paragraph is added to § 13. 15 added: ‘(15) § 5 para. 9 as well as § 8 as amended by the Federal Act BGBl. I No. xxx/2021 shall enter into force on the day following the call.’;’ Reasons for Article 1 (Epidemia Act 1950) To Z 2 to 6 (§s 39, 40 and 50 para. 8 and 27): The establishment of minimum penalties in the COVID-19 Act pursues the purpose of complying with the prohibitions and prohibitions laid down in a regulation under this Federal Law, which serve the legitimate objective of protecting the health infrastructure from overload. In the light of a comprehensive and factual view, a minimum penalty must be imposed not only on the criminal provisions of the COVID-19 Act, but also on those of the 1950 Epidemic Act. The obligation to notify under the 1950 Epidemie Act is subject only to diseases which, in the light of the protection of public health, on the basis of the underlying portability and danger, require the establishment of administrative measures. In order to maintain the effectiveness of the health infrastructure, it is therefore also necessary to minimise the additional burden associated with these diseases. In addition, under the Epidemic Act, administrative measures are also taken in relation to COVID-19 (e.g. Derogations according to § 7). Furthermore, it may be pointed out at this point that, according to § 20 of the VStG, the minimum penalty may be reduced to half if the grounds for mitigation outweigh the grounds of difficulty or if the accused is a youth. Regardless of the wording, this is not a “judgment” but a right to the application of the extraordinary right of mitigation (s Weilguni in Lewisch/Fister/Weilguni, VStG2 § 20 Rz 3 [as of 1.5.2017, rdb.at]). Since this measure is directly linked to the current burden on the health system of COVID-19, the minimum penalties laid down by this Federal Act – in accordance with the COVID-19 Act – will be 30. ==References====External links== In addition, the provision under which the District Administration Authority is authorised to communicate to the Mayor the name and contact details of a person affected by a separate measure under the Epidemic Law on the grounds of COVID-19 who is resident in his territory, if and to the extent that it is absolutely necessary to provide that person with necessary health services or with goods or services of daily need, shall be communicated to the Mayor by 30. ==References== On Article 2 (COVID-19 Act) On Z 2 to 5 (§ 8): The effectiveness of anti-poverty measures to reduce pandemic events depends substantially on their compliance by the standard subjects. In particular, the protection of the maintenance of the functioning of the health infrastructure is pursued. Against this background, minimum penalties are now also set – in addition to the maximum penalties so far. It can be derived from the jurisdiction of the VfGH that a minimum penalty is permissible, provided that it is, in particular, in a reasonable relationship with the perpetrator's debt and is objectively justified (see VfSlg. 18.775; VfSlg. 16.407; VfGH 9.3.2011, G 53/10: The need to allow for a fair assessment of prohibited practices, including Muzak, migraLex 2011, 45, which states that there is a need for objective differentiation and that the minimum penalty must be proportionate to comparable prohibitions; VfSlg. 20.378: Even in the case of more severe penalties for general and special prevention reasons, a penalty should be proportionate to the degree of indebtedness and the amount of the penalty due to the In the event of injury, there was no possibility of taking into account the specific unvalue levels in the event of injury). Furthermore, it may be pointed out at this point that, according to § 20 of the VStG, the minimum penalty may be reduced to half if the grounds for mitigation outweigh the grounds of difficulty or if the accused is a youth. Regardless of the wording, this is not a “judgment” but a right to the application of the extraordinary right of mitigation (s Weilguni in Lewisch/Fister/Weilguni, VStG2 § 20 Rz 3 [as of 1.5.2017, rdb.at]). It should also be noted that the minimum penalty must be in relation to the criminal framework in order to be able to take into account the different levels of disability in each individual case. In order to continue to maintain this ratio, the minimum penalty was set at 10 percent of the maximum penalty. [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e45216	The amendment to Agenda item 34 as well as the amendments to Agenda item 33 as a whole were tabled in accordance with § 53 para. 4 GMOs are distributed to the mandates and are properly submitted and under negotiation. The amendment to Agenda item 31 was also properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Magnificence comes to the fore. Gerhard Kaniak; a word on business treatment before: Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e45252	Mr President. Mr. Schalmeiner, in his usual way, has used the term "blessness" permanently and invariably against the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Neßler: Please?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disoski]] As far as I remember, this calls for order in this direction. I would ask you to take a look at the Minutes and, at all events, to give them retroactively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e45292	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall have the minutes come and then make known the decision. It is now possible to speak. Gerhard Kaniak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e45322	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! What distinguishes those states that have dealt particularly well with the Corona crisis internationally? – A clear crisis management, guidelines for the population, which are understandable and easy to implement, and the appeal to one another, to understanding and to education. What have we experienced in Austria for almost two years now? – A policy of fear, a crisis of action with constantly changing regulations, partly not even weekly, but even more short-term, and totally impracticable provisions for the majority of the population. That there is resistance that people can no longer contribute to this policy, because they no longer understand it, because there are no more clearly defined goals that one can follow at all or which one can work on, is one of the major failures of this federal government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But it's even worse, because if fear and threats of punishment are not enough, then we need to strengthen the threat of punishment and further increase the pressure. Thus, at least the paradigm of this Federal Government and the Federal Minister Mückstein seems to be, and in the agenda item 33, there is also a novel of the Epidemic Law and the COVID-19 Act, which now introduces minimum penalties in addition to existing draconian penalties up to 30,000 euros and six weeks. I would like to show you by means of a few examples how absurd the whole thing is, how strong it will be the division that exists in society, and the concerns and fears of the people will continue to fuel and how impracticable the whole will be in practice. Imagine an old man who makes his way to the pharmacy and does not put his mask on: If he has been discovered by a safety body or by an employee in the health service, he will have been politely informed – who goes on the floor – that he will please put on a mask; in the future he will have to punish him with 50 euros. Or imagine the owner of a retail shop in the country where perhaps a customer gets lost every quarter of an hour: A customer comes in with a mask, perhaps with a expired vaccine certificate, because he was surprised last Monday that the period of validity of the vaccine certificate had been shortened. The store owner doesn't ask him for his certificate. A check is coming in, and the store owner has committed a breach of his obligation to control whether a valid certificate is available. Criminal framework: EUR 30 000, minimum penalty EUR 3 000. – No one has been threatened, for the store owner has been vaccinated and the other is only a risk for himself. Mr Federal Minister, do you think these minimum penalties and even these criminal frameworks are appropriate? Faith Do you really think that you will get more understanding and more participation in the Austrian population if you put on the thumb screws even further and also the health authorities and the safety services that work in assistance to the health authorities take any scope for action in order to be advisory and informative so that they now have to punish immediately? [[Abg. Belakovich: Wurscht!]] – I personally do not believe that this is a good thing. I am also convinced that the overall acceptance of all measures will disappear even further, and there is no need for FPÖ to do so, all of this has brought you together alone. In conclusion, however, I would also like to say something positive. Now that we have been demanding for over a year that new medicamental therapy options for Covid-19 therapy be provided – in the USA the first preparations were already approved in the summer of 2020 – there is now a budget in Austria too for these drugs to be obtained. The wormhead drop is that you want to rebuild an extraordinary distribution structure and actually give it to the wrong groups of people, because the Molnupiravir you get is actually a therapeutic that needs to be used very early and in the established area. They send it into the clinical area, where it is likely not to be used or too late; perhaps rethinking Once again, you're in this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e45366	Mrs Gabriela Schwarz is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e45391	Mr President. Minister of Health! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I hope you will be there in this debate, which is about information. I want to focus on these now. We are now experiencing in the debate about the vaccination requirement how important it is to collect people where they are, their fears, their concerns, their concerns and information – but with scientifically sound data, with experts, with researchers who have access to data worldwide, collect them and then exploit them. Mr Hauser said today that he came up with scientific facts. I just want to stop him from saying two things: With regard to these 150 doctors whom he quoted today, which he called an explicit name, namely Dr. Sönnichsen, and spoke in the same breath of the Med-Uni Wien, I would like to say that the Med-Uni Wien has explicitly distanced itself from the statements of Dr. Sönnichsen and has said that this is exclusively his private opinion. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens]] [[Abg. Belarusian: Yes, May!]] [[Abg. Stefan: And that's why we're in the scientific...!]] - That's the one thing. And believe me, Mr Hauser, it makes little impression when you wake up and claim that more than 20 percent of the population have been cured. Once again, it was held: The producer has clearly found that this is not a means of covid treatment, but in horses of one against worms, and in people of one against cross-mile – and if the dosage is misappropriated, it is highly toxic. [[Abg. Belakovich: Sure because he's got a new drug on the market!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer]] Ladies and gentlemen, rely on real science and not on pseudoscience! [[Abg. Belakovich: So not on the ÖVP!]] – I am also on something that Mr Loacker has already said today, namely with the telegram groups and with the Facebook groups: Please say goodbye too! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[Abg. Stefan: Only official information! Only official! ‘1984’ has shown that only official information is received! Please no other...!]] An information campaign against fakenews with well-founded data is really, really important – and you already remember, ladies and gentlemen, based on the reactions of the FPÖ: [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] There's great excitement. Why do you think? – Because there the Fakenevs are at home and not in science. That is clearly what I want to maintain. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Stefan:... authorized! Blessed information in the truest sense of the word!]] Because the clubman of the FPÖ demands that the ideas of the vaccination be raised, I now also ask for something. We always listen to the sounds – these are the ones that are perceived. But there are also millions of lilies in Austria who have adhered to all the measures that also carry the vaccination, and thank them once! Let's not just look at those who make a crab – and I'll explicitly take out those who demonstrate, because they have worries and fears, but I'm not taking out those to whom the FPÖ offers a stage, namely the conspiracy theorists, as at the last demonstration. I ask you, as we all distance ourselves from this point of view, to do so, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Something else – and I would like to say that in this clarity: I think this scanning of: Liar press!, for last-class. The journalists who report on the demonstration are physically attacking, sexualizing and sexistic in the case of a colleague of Pulse 4, and still throwing ice slabs, are strongly condemned. [[Abg. Stefan: Make such an effort for the truth! They are trying so hard for the truth!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] Please, you can't! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Similarly, demonstrations against health care facilities are abominable. On the other hand, we should expressly express ourselves. On the other hand, we should all act – all here in this hall and all outside. As said, fears and needs are serious, one should talk to the experts, to the domestic doctors, to get advice there. [[Abg. Belakovich: Exactly! Because if they say something, then...!]] [[Abg. Stefan: Could they talk freely, the doctors? Can they talk freely or give only certain information?]] Worldwide, the vaccine has already been vaccinated 8 billion times. With the Minister of Health, who is a doctor himself, we are always, if you like, at the pulse of time, and my colleague Werner Saxinger will give some examples of how well you can communicate information to the different groups. So that the excitement of the liberals can be restored, I wish to all of us that we go to the new year as healthy as possible and that as many as possible still perceive and immunise the possibility and thus find a way out of the pandemic. You know, Omikron's in the mouth, that's something that's going to come to us. We have to face Omikron as well as we can. That's why I'm asking you all: Stay healthy!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e45624	Mrs Fiona Fionadier came to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e45646	Mr President. High house! Valuable Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! [[The salutation also in sign language:]] Love deaf people! Today there are again numerous Covid requests for debate, because the Federal Government regularly stumbles completely unprepared from a covid wave to the next, and among the applications is, of course, one bomb again. Among other things, ÖVP and Greens want to decide on minimum penalties for Covid infringements today, even if the infringements are only bagatelles: Slanting looking makes 50 euros, wrong sitting 130 euros, too fast going 360 euros. The motto of the Federal Government seems to be: Punishment until the State Bank passes!, but punishments and complaints seem to be in the trend. In Lobau, 13-year-olds from SPÖ-nearly law firms now receive threats of complaint. That is why I am surprised that the Greens are voting in favour of this extra-punishment request. On the one hand, the Greens are right to complain that 13-year-olds are being sued in the Lobau, on the other hand, the Greens today adopt a law in which even slight coronas are subject to high penalties. But it's still coming. better: At the same time, the Food Safety Act reduces the maximum penalties and eliminates the minimum penalties. What kind of logic is that? – I understand with the ÖVP. Unfortunately, one can see again that the ÖVP has enforced itself with its client policy. Whoever sits on the park bankerl is mercilessly punished by this government, but an ÖVP-near butcher who violates the Food Safety Act can even get away with it without punishment. – Dear Greens, I am not sure if you are aware of what you decide to do today. To the Covid medicines: We see the procurement of covid drugs in principle positive, and of course it is always necessary to stress that vaccination is by far the cheapest and most effective medicine against Covid. However, we will not agree to the law because it will undermine the European Community and its solidarity, for the legal basis reads as follows: It is now clear that some pharmaceutical manufacturers and/or pharmaceuticals are involved. Suppliers do not want to “sale” the EU’s central purchase, but “to conclude contracts individually with the EU Member States”. – Say: This law helps to play against each other in EU countries. Unfortunately, that is not possible from our point of view. From our point of view, a certain set of drugs must be centrally obtained through the EU in order to ensure that no EU country is cut off from the supply of drugs. In addition, it is of course free for any country to buy additional quotas directly from the manufacturers. Final to extend the free tests: We lack the strategy and differentiation. If the tests remain permanently free, even for unvaccinated, then the government gives the impression that the tests and vaccinations are equivalent in effect. That's not true. It is not just that the test costs at 1.6 billion euros are more than three times higher than the vaccination costs, the tests unfortunately simply do not protect against the virus. Vaccination helps, and we must use every opportunity to increase the vaccination rate. It would be useful not only to allow low-swell vaccination in pharmacies – however, for whatever reason you block – but also to actively start operations with vaccines. Of 6 million working people in Austria, almost 1.6 million are still unvaccinated. We can reach these people with such an offer. The involvement of the social security scheme, which has the necessary data, is therefore necessary and is also feasible and desirable on the part of social security. Therefore, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[20:12]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e45770	The application is properly filed and is therefore also under negotiation. Barbara Neßler is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e45797	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers and Seers! We hope to agree on one thing here: that children and young people need protection from the Covid-19 virus. That is why I say this because in the past the thesis has long held that there can be no difficult course for young people. We now know that is not the case. Now we have at least the vaccination for children from five years of age, and scientists also agree regarding this age group that the risk of suffering from corona or Long Covid is much higher than the risk of any side effects of vaccination. The virologist Christian Drosten also explicitly points out that the new variant of Omikron could, unfortunately, lead to more severe procedures for children in particular, and therefore explicitly recommends vaccination. The colleague of the ÖVP has also explained this: I also have great understanding for all parents who are unsure of what they want to give the children, including with what medical treatment the children should receive. Therefore, it is of course necessary to inform the parents, to encourage them that, in case of questions, the conversation with the doctors and doctors is conducted and, in the event of ambiguities, in case of doubt, not telegrams or the countless false reports, is given faith. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We therefore also agree with Mr Holzleitner's proposal, which is an information campaign. But I would just like to say that a campaign is already under way, for example with a spot specifically for the children's vaccination, which is switched on television and also on social networks. We have also distributed special folder for parents, but also for children through the stakeholders in schools, for example from the Ministry of Education directly to the schools or to the school doctors, they are also located at mother-child boxes. This folder is also available for children. Under the rule, I think: If you want to protect your child, leave it immunized. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Diesner-Wais.]] This will not only provide many children with medical protection, but, as I believe, it will also counteract the mental fears and uncertainties which, in view of the development of the pandemic, were logically built up in children. I have something else for the FPÖ that I have found – Mr Worm, I hope you listen well –: [[Abg. Worm: A gift for Christmas!]] “It must be borne in mind that the omission of vaccinations not only affects the individual but also affects society as a whole.” – From whom does the saying come? [[Call:Dagmar Belakovich]] Not of the Greens, not of the ÖVP, not of the NEOS, not of the SPÖ. He's from the FPÖ, and it's not been that long. This was a request for urgency in 2019 entitled “Information campaign on the consequences of non-vaccination”, which was introduced by FPÖ in the Tyrolean Landtag. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Owls and oats with the greens.]] Because it's so beautiful, I like to quote it again. The FPÖ says: “It must be borne in mind that the omission of vaccinations has an impact not only on individuals but also on society as a whole.” – So much to your convictions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] [[Abg. Stefan:... objective!]] At the end of the day, however, my request to all parents: When it comes to your children's health, you better not rely on happiness, but go on number number safely, protect your child and leave it immune! Thank you. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Martin Graf]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e45897	Before Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Wolfgang Mückstein speaks, I am allowed to give a call for order to Mr. Schalmeiner for the wording “a little bit of nonsense”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] Mr Wolfgang Mückstein has now come to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e45941	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! I can comment on agenda items 30 to 36. Medicines as the first point: Adequate protection against the Covid-19 infection primarily provides the corona protection vaccination. It is, I think, very important to say this on the subject of medication. So far, 15.3 million vaccinations have been administered in Austria, so we actually have 15.3 million sticks in Austria. Nearly 70 percent of the total population have received two doses, 33 percent already the booster shot, the third partial vaccination, and we still hold 67 percent for the over 65-year-olds regarding booster vaccinations. What other medications are there? – There is an oral therapy that is now available from Pfizer, the company MSD. We have already purchased over 470 000 therapeutic cycles. What is important about these drugs? – On the one hand, they are not an alternative to vaccination. They must be given relatively at the beginning, i.e. on the third to fifth day after positive testing, and are intended for people who have pre-diseases who have risk factors. They're here for that. But they're not an alternative to vaccination. They may, when given early, help to prevent serious illness between the third and the fifth day. The risk reduces by about 50 percent. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Since the established channels of pharmaceutical procurement have not been sufficient in this case, we have agreed on a central procurement on the Confederation. In this way we can offer this treatment option, namely the oral drugs against the Covid-19 infection, to the federal states and thus help to relieve the hospitals in the future. Once again – and this is very important –: The medications are not an alternative to vaccination! The second treatment option is IV medications. These are antibodies that are administered via the veins. Similar setting: They shall be given between three and five days after the positive test. That's where we're at the procurement. Extension of the corona protection provisions: We have extended the special provisions in the field of health. Why? – These should help to avoid staff shortages in the care sector, as well as in test and vaccination activities. It has already been mentioned that we have continued to suspend the obligation to vidicate by official doctors in relation to drug-related regulations. This protects this particularly vulnerable patient group, namely the addiction diseases that have less contact, and it also relieves the official doctors. The revision of the COVID-19 Act and the Epidemic Act introduces minimum penalties for individuals and for non-compliance with the Covid-19 protection provisions. We will also extend the current free tests, this test regime. To the children's vaccinations: Since the end of November, we have the opportunity to immunise children in Austria from the age of five. There are clear recommendations from the National Vaccination Body. This means that a further population group is covered by this possibility of protection. Many parents have waited to finally have the opportunity to have their children vaccinated. That's going very well. Why is that important? – On the one hand, it is important because the vaccination is safe and also very effective in children, on the other hand, there are, of course, serious disease events in children, and there are also children who are in the hospital because of a covid-19 infection. In addition, vaccinated children naturally protect their environment, their parents, grandparents and their teachers and their classmates. We have now put in place a number of measures to ensure that the coronary vaccination for children is applied. As part of the Austrian initiative, we have already launched TV spots on the topic of infant vaccination. We made a folder and poster campaign together with the doctor's chamber. In addition, my department cooperates with child and youth organisations. There is also a targeted folder for parents who are already available on the website of the Social Ministry. About Enlightenment and Fakenevs: This too is a central part of the adjusted advertising campaign. There is a certain type of vaccination in Austria. This vaccine is often based on disinformation, including conspiracy myths. There we have also vaccinated via the platform Austria and via social media channels a separate line to explain about Fakenevs. It is not true that women cannot become pregnant if they receive the Covid-19 vaccine. On the contrary, pregnant women are recommended for Covid-19 vaccination in the second and third third pregnancy. It is also not true that men are not fertile, nor is it true that a worm drug is a good alternative. I just read in the newspaper that there was a death case in Austria with the worm drug. [[Abg. Stefan: What's in the paper, gal? There are also fakeevs in the paper!]] So I wouldn't recommend that; that's, I think, not a good idea. We will clarify multilingually. We're going to explain target group specific. We will also become more small-scale. The time of the big advertising campaigns is probably over. It has to be more targeted and that is already happening. We also sent a letter to all the unvaccinated people in Austria – and this will be finished by Christmas, with an appointment, without waiting. That is, we have made a good move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e45986	The next speaker is Mr Rudolf Silvan. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e46010	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on item 31 on the agenda, which is the extension of the special provisions for health and health care professions relating to the pandemic. In concrete terms, this concerns care staff with foreign training, which is up to 30 years old. In June 2022, it was expected that it would be possible to complete its conditions laid down in the notice of recognition. It is also intended to take care of medicaments up to the age of 30. The tests and vaccinations may continue on June 2022. We are, of course, for this, but there might be a note: Why shouldn't the pharmacists do this? Unfortunately, due to the great staffing need, these extensions are still necessary. We, the Social Democracy, have made twelve applications for care reform over the last six months alone. In all these applications, we have made proposals on how to make the care and health professions more attractive, so that every person in Austria will receive care if he really needs them. A few examples: better pay, reduced working hours, six weeks vacation from the beginning of the career, a salary during training, such as the police, easier access to the heavy work board, creating a State Care Guarantee Fund, so that no one needs to worry when he needs care. Unfortunately, these applications have been postponed. I hope that we can now work together on a genuine care reform in this House. The precarious employment conditions in the care sector and in the health care professions are still being hindered from actions by covids who are accused of health facilities in which workers are accused. I really call on all the parliamentarians here to make themselves publicly clear against such actions and to express their views. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] I am therefore very glad that I can make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[20:28]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e46176	The application is properly filed and is therefore also under negotiation. Now speaking, Dr. Werner Saxinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e46201	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to add the following to colleagues Silvan: A hospital is really not a demonstration site, we protect patients and employees from being hindered from access and work! [[As a result of this, the Commission has decided to extend the scope of the measures to be taken by the Member States in order to ensure that the aid is compatible with the common agricultural policy. Krisper.]] Yesterday, a patient asked me: Mr. Doctor, after these two years, how is her state of feeling with this pandemic? – And then I said: I have to tell you honestly, ambivalent, sometimes we just feel so bad, although we are actually quite good. – Then she asked: Why are we all right? – I said: Look, science really did in record time research and market vaccines and drugs against this treacherous disease, and our ancestors would have had a much worse situation. We should also keep in mind the achievements that science produces. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] At the last meeting of the Committee on Health, we made a number of changes again. The Covid drugs have already been mentioned, 50 million euros have been approved, on the one hand for their own needs or also for the EU-wide. A broad majority were fortunately there for a SPÖ initiative for a large-scale information offensive on a coronary vaccination for children. In terms of information, you can never make enough. Much also works perfectly; I am thinking, for example, of the Oberösterreich action vaccination. I would also like to give you an example: Julius is six years old. ==References== It's a folk school. His grandfather died of Corona, and he experienced the whole drama. On TV he heard by the way, his mom told me that children from five years of age can be vaccinated, and he said to his mom: Mom, I'm six already, I'd like to have myself vaccinated! The mother then looked up on Upper Austria in vaccination, had already received an appointment three days later on the local vaccination road. You went there. A pediatrician was there. Funnyly and fortunately it was his pediatrician, but this is a coincidence. He's got a rescue car for crafts, a deed, a bee with stalks. It was over soon. The next day, Julius had a little leg at the injection site at the upper arm – he didn't even notice it – and this week he already got the second trick. As of yesterday, over 85 000 children between five and eleven years of age have already been vaccinated. That's 15 percent of this age group. But we also do something for patients who are afraid that they have already responded to other vaccinations and are afraid. For example, the KUK in Linz in the allergy center offers vaccinations with a special aftercare for those who fear it. These are actions that are offered to the patients with whom fear is taken. – Thanks to all those who organize this and help that most of it works so well! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Unfortunately, there has again been a party that has not voted in favour of child vaccination campaign, the FPÖ. [[Abg. Belakovich: Well, really not? That's a crime!]] But I have done my utmost to report a lot of positive things, appropriate to the Advent season, dear Mr Worm. There are many positive messages from the FPÖ. Positive message number one: In 1999, FPÖ called for mandatory vaccinations to be reintroduced in order to improve the vaccination rate in children and the elderly. In 2008 – and we have heard this today – colleague Belakovich even called for a mandatory inclusion of the hepatitis A and B vaccination into the infant vaccination program before entering the kindergarten, namely in Salzburg. Positive message number two: Andreas Mölzer, a FPÖ original, said that “if it is useful to us and if it keeps us constitutional”, he could imagine the measure of vaccination obligation. He continued: “Resistance to what [...] the great of science recommends ” has little meaning. Demonstrations are legitimate, but opposition to legal and democratic provisions is absurd. The FPÖ should not go completely into the field of the scientific skeptical narrative. - That's Andreas Mölzer. Positive message number three: Beate Hartinger-Klein, former Minister for Health: Kickl’s recommendation to take a worm to treat a covid infection considers it “last-class and indisputable”. She also says: ‘Whoever stands for self-determination must clarify and take fears.’ [[Abg. Belakovich: I think the whole Hartinger little girl is last-class!]] Positive message number four: The Vienna FPÖ Health Speaker Wolfgang Seidl: “Some statements” of the Federal Republic of Germany’s FPÖ “I don’t understand. Our Vienna line focuses on voluntaryness in vaccination and the pandemic [...] on scientific facts.” Positive example number five: Ms. Dr. Povysil, former health spokesperson and chairman of the Health Committee, said: Vaccination is “one of the greatest precautionary achievements of medicine. ” Fundamental and freedom rights are enormously important to her, but in the current pandemic one is in an exceptional situation with a huge threat scenario. Only with one vaccination can one bring the pandemic under control, she says, and if one simply cannot reach the necessary vaccination rate on another way, then they support the vaccination obligation. That is in the sense of freedom of all. Ms. Povysil himself immunizes in Upper Austria, in immunities and children. She says to the kickl course: “This is a way I couldn’t go along with.” A little more intellect, a little more povysil, would be good for the FPÖ in the interest of all. I know that numerous FPÖ delegates think like mills, Hartinger-little, Seidl or Povysil. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we should make sure again and again: The enemy is the virus, and so we should all act. Let's not split up! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e46293	Mr Peter Wurm came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e46317	Mr President. Minister! High house! Fathers. Yes, when the ÖVP begins to praise the liberals, it usually doesn't come from the heart, but maybe I have misunderstanded the story now. It is good, however, that once it came out clearly, which has always been miscommunicated in plenary for two years: We don't have anything to do with a vaccination if that's what someone voluntarily decides for himself. After all, we are not a basic vaccineer, with regard to all the vaccinations that exist. That was never our statement. But what we have always said – and now we come to the crucial point: We are, of course, opposed to the forced vaccination. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are the only party to which the people have spoken. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] There are now – you have to do that explain – in this plenary session the Austrian Unity Party, the ÖEP. ÖVP, Greens, NEOS, Social Democrats: These four parties march on one line in the history of Corona. Of course, it would be nice for the other four if the last party in Parliament, the liberals, were to join an all-party union. That would be great for you, but it won't play. I'll tell you why. Especially in these two applications today: What you decide together now is an advertising campaign for the child vaccination. It is not about providing the parents with information, but you want your propaganda – the famous spell you have to say three times: Vaccinate, impfe, impfe!, because it then acts like a spell of magic – now give to the youngest children and worried parents in an advertising campaign. The famous serious media we have want to provide you with it. This is an advertising campaign, these four parties decide. Then the four parties have still decided, because it fits so well: Communication can only run through these media channels, and we are now adopting a law that concerns Fakenev's over Corona. So that's all the novels that have been written. These four parties today decide on the Ministry of Truth: What is true about Corona and what is not? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If it wasn't so sad and dramatic, you'd have to laugh. You still have to keep your humor and optimism. That's not quite easy. I admit, even sometimes I doubt many things. But you just have to tell the population things. All you have communicated with your special experts in scientific theories for two years has been dissolved in sound and smoke. Nothing's been held. Neither does vaccination protect it from its own infection – we know – nor does it protect it from passing on the virus. Everything has disintegrated in sound and smoke. Also the famous full-immunization after two vaccinations: Sound and smoke. Last week the Minister came with Omikron. This is also clear, the new tricycle will start in winter, because Omikron Delta will be pushed away, and the delta vaccination will no longer be protected. One should only tell the population this clearly and should not, as you have been doing for two years, call all those who express a different opinion as volidiotes, coronaleugers, aluhut carriers, state objectors, neo-fascists, Nazis. I don't know what happened to the government bank in the last few weeks. You should stop that. If you go straight to the population, communicate honestly and do not make propaganda – that is a very crucial difference – then you will have us in the boat. We will defend the voluntaryity of vaccination and also the question of sensuality until the last one. I say very briefly: We have now always heard about many countries, in the last four, five, six weeks Portugal has been the great example: Portugal has 90 percent vaccination rate, and we have a embarrassing vaccination rate! – Meanwhile, the incidence in Portugal is the same or the same as in Austria. They always want us to get 90 percent with the vaccination requirement. Mr. Minister, go inside! Drawer You have this vaccination duty and inform the people honestly and sincerely! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e46393	Magnificence comes to the fore. Georg Bürstmayr. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e46420	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I would like to address briefly the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Muchich, Mr Mahrer and myself. It goes back to an initiative of SPÖ, which was developed last night in response to current news, that in Austria, too, vaccines and hospitals are besieged in the framework of so-called demonstrations, in a way that is hindered by access to ambulances, that staff are accused that patients who are there to recover are massively irritated and disturbed, not only because of covid diseases, but also because of many diseases. It should not be necessary, in fact, to request the Minister of the Interior to ensure that this does not happen as far as possible and that the people who have been working for us in the vaccination streets and hospitals for many months are protected. [[Abg. Martin Graf: He doesn't work!]] [[Abg. Martin Graf: The Minister must be asked because he doesn't hack!]] This should be of course, just as every child in Austria knows that one does not hype in front of a hospital. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and MEPs from ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] This has unfortunately been the case for some people over the last two years, and that is why this joint initiative proposal is needed. I am glad that he has now reached a speedy conclusion, and I hope that we will be able to meet again and again on other issues of health policy. I would ask for broad approval of this request. - Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e46474	Now Mrs Brandstötter is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e46495	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Yes, we have a huge problem with Fakenev's, with disinformation campaigns, with conspiracy theories, the everywhere, also here in Parliament, and have adopted an incredible scale since the beginning of the Covid-19 Pandemic. This is dangerous, which undermines the trust of the population in health organizations and in pandemic management. It is directly attacking our democracy, because we are not only fighting a pandemic, but we are also fighting an infodemia. We have now responded to NEOS with a request from the Health Committee. The aim is to make a campaign to develop a strategy to clarify the population actively and in an appropriate form via fakeevs and conspiracy theories on Covid-19. All the parties have agreed to this, except the FPÖ, which may also feel meant. But this strategy needs it, and much more needs to be done. [[call to the FPÖ.]] What are we talking about? – We speak of targeted and well-taught disinformation campaigns by major nations such as China or Russia. But this goes down to the Styrian pensioner, who is dissatisfied and spreads lies and thus also puts Fakenevs into the world. And in the meantime, the FPÖ is making a mistake about a parliamentary party that is driving a very dangerous game, which divides and insecures society. [[Abg. Belakovich: What does it mean to be dangerous?- Oh, my God!]] However, the government does not need to back down comfortably, because according to Sora-democracy monitoring, the confidence of the population in the political system has fallen dramatically in recent years. The main reasons for this are the ÖVP insect corruption and the failed pandemic management. This also opens conspiracy theories and distrust door and gate. As if all of this were not bad enough, besides dubious telegram channels, there are also some Austrian medium, well subsidized by the Austrian taxpayer, there are, for example, broadcasts in which there are spreads with satire and through question points fakenews and happens disinformation. So we are in a really difficult situation. We now have to act decisively, and that is why I make a further request to that effect. It is a hugely important question of how we can reach the ever-growing group of people who have retreated into their own Chambers of Perception, echo chambers. What are my three demands? First of all, we need media competence teaching at our schools. Our children need to learn the difference between fakenews and real news, even in order to protect themselves from becoming victims of disinformation in social networks. [[Abg. Worm: This is the Ministry of Truth, Mrs. Colleague! The Ministry of Truth!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Secondly, we need fact-finding checks, fact-finding checks, fact-finding checks. We need to check facts, such as those of Mimikama, even the “profile” has now a very good fact-finding check, properly subsidized and financed. [[Abg. Belakovich: The “Profile”! The ‘Profile...!]] Because more and more fake pages are being created online, on the web, which are as if they were a serious medium, and also deceive readers regarding their own concerns and projects, we need a kind of seal of quality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] Good seal now sounds a bit baked, after hendlhaxn and beef, but we need a generally valid, recognized seal of quality for journalistic care. This is what we need for those media that work on a fact-based, serious basis and based on comprehensible quality criteria. Experienced online shoppers might know this: If you misstrate an online shop, you look at it, there is the Trusted Shops seal. Then you think, well, that's a first indication that this isn't a deal. If there is no such a seal of goodness, you can already be sure that this may not be quite clean. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] I ask you to agree to our request, because if you sabotage online appointment systems, lurk hospitals, demonstrate before media houses, harass doctors, sabotage vaccinations, so that you can't feel safe anymore – that's not possible! We now have to act decisively, so I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[20:46]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e46666	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Mr. Dr. Martin Graf spoke on an actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e46693	Mr President. I would really like to correct Mr Bürstmayr in the light of the facts. He claimed that the government parties, together with MP Muchitsch, have submitted an initiative for the protection of hospitals and health personnel. I'm actually correcting: What has been submitted is not an initiative proposal – he should know in himself as a lawyer – but a motion for a resolution. It is a call to the Minister who has obviously become necessary because the Federal Minister for the Interior does not comply with his work. [[Abg. Stögmüller: This is not an actual correction!]] In this respect, it is almost a mistrust of the Federal Minister for the Interior if a government party...
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e46720	In the sense of the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, I should like to ask you to continue to make a real corrective step. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e46735	I'm actually correcting: It is not an initiative, as he has claimed, but a resolution which has a different quality.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e46769	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the vote to the conclusion of the negotiations on the Health Committee's submissions and proceed to the completion of the agenda. [[20:48:12]] 37. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1164, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Medical Assistance Act, the Health and Hospital Care Act, the Health Professional Register Act, the Hospital Working Time Act, the General Social Insurance Act and the Vocational Audit Act (OTA Act) (1274 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e46808	We're coming to 37. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Philip Kucher came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e46838	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Graf has now shown us that he knows the difference between the motion for a resolution and the motion for an initiative. Thank you for the educational contribution in the evening. Of course, it would have been nice if you had found a few words about the subject matter of this request. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Lausch and Mr Belakovich.]] You could also have said that you don't think it's okay.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e46860	Ladies and gentlemen, I really have to say: This is not possible in the case of actual correction. The honourable Member wanted to talk for a longer time, because it would not have been an actual correction. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e46887	Maybe he'll get in touch. Thanks for the support, now you've just helped him a little bit. So, Mr Graf has forgotten that he is still appealing and saying that it is actually inappropriate and it does not belong to being bothered by the people who do their best in the hospital day and night. That doesn't have to be at that time. Unfortunately, the Count of Parliament has forgotten this. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Perhaps he will find the opportunity to get out, because in the evening the FPÖ will be happy to appeal. We have already heard today from Deputies Worm: Vaccines, immunize, immunize! Mr Graf may also be able to take up these appeals. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Martin Graf: I've been turned off!]] A few words on the current proposal: It is about the OTA law, the operational assistance introduced in Austria. We have discussed this intensively in committee. In itself, it is a meaningful further development. In the context of the current debate on the development of the care professions and the medical assistants, it is tragic that once again one has managed to produce pieces that have not been considered: How can we integrate this into a permeable overall system, how does the further development of the raised health and health care service continue? There are some construction sites that have just been forgotten. I know that on the part of the Green colleagues, such as Mrs Bedrana Ribo, fight very, very committed for the further development of the care professions. I also know, however, that the ÖVP unfortunately torpedes everything completely in fact when it comes to the further development of health and health care – the word “care” – a requirement that is rejected by all health and health care professionals. The background is always that you say that you do not want to develop your professional image, but rather to consider how to save. So there are economic criteria and reasons that are in the background. I should like to ask that, when one speaks of appreciation for health and health care, it is not just about it, but also about the skills of these people who give their best day and night and do not say: Even if everyone is against it, politics knows better! This may be a small appeal towards ÖVP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e46939	Mr Ralph Schalmeiner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e46963	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! I would like to link exactly where Philip Kucher has stopped: that you listen to the practice and to those who come out of practice. That is what we have done in this law, but then perhaps I will come to speak later. What's this about? – It is about the professional image of the operational assistant or the operational assistant that we are about to introduce. This is a professional image that already exists internationally – since the 1940s, for example, in Great Britain, since the 1970s in the German-speaking region – only not yet with us in Austria. So Switzerland or Germany already know this professional image, there are also operational assistants there. This is about assistance in the operating room, in the highly specialized area, very complex. The tasks of an operational assistant include the preparation of the instruments, equipment operations, springing activities during the operation, and disposal and sterilization of the instruments after the operation. In 2018, there was the first attempt to get this professional image on the way, then – and I agree with Philip Kucherzu's criticism – in a very inadequate way; at that time one meant that one was doing a two-year quick-seller training, which was also the SPÖ's criticism, especially by Philip Kucheran, of this first draft. We've changed that. Today, we are setting up a career that is internationally comparable to that in Germany, Switzerland, which has a three-year training as its basis, and we may even bring a certain amount of relaxation into the hospitals, because we are introducing this professional image, this specialization. Operations assistants are not only used in the surgery, they should perhaps also be said, but they also provide technical assistance in the shock rooms, in the emergency ambulance, even in the endoscopy they are used, for example, and they also care for the treatment of medical products. I would like to make one more amendment before I go into this close-up to practice: [[Quoted print version removed]] At the end of the day: Philip Kucher has addressed the expertise. - Yes, we did. One who has been very active in the last two years, who has done so quite well, is Karl Muttenthaler, who is also here in the house. Thank you, Mr Muttenthaler, for the expertise from practice and really for the drive forward of this law. As well as others, Mr Muttenthaler will be involved in the creation of the curriculum and in the further measures so that we can implement this very practical approach, which has been called for, so that we can meet again at 100 percent. In this sense: Thank you very much, and I would like a broad consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e47066	The amendment has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Dr Josef Smolle is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e47094	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Operational assistance – the professional image in its roots actually has a decades-long tradition. In fact, there were once the so-called operating labs, and these were people who were often really a stable backbone of operating room operations. There has then been a time when the value of formal training has increasingly come to the fore, since this professional group has become a little in the background. The current law aims to give this professional group a solid training framework and a clear concept of tasks. With this we do something and create a professional image that is already very well established in Germany and Switzerland. There will be three years of training, and it is very important that this training will be a very large part of the practice to be completed in an integrated way. This is exactly what we need in the operating room: People who are fully able to support, but also to do so independently, the essential tasks. This does not only concern the activity of the In addition, these persons can also take over support services in the shock room, especially in the endoscopy, but also in the technical preparation of the various devices. It has also been spoken of as being embedded in an overall concept: This is embedded in the Medical Assistance Act, and a few other laws are taken into account; this professional group, which is independent, is also included in the health profession register. It is particularly important that there is a double permeability regarding training in this professional group. What do I mean by double permeability? – One is that people who have completed surgery assistance training so far have the opportunity to enter the training for operational assistance by starting there in the second year of training; that is, there is a permeability from below. At least as important is: This new professional image of the operational assistants will also be included in the professional maturity examination law, i.e. this professional group will also have the opportunity to go towards professional maturity examination and thus reach university maturity. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the people in the various health professions who work together in the operating rooms and to wish them could move back to regular operations as soon as possible. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] And I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, for broad approval of this OTA law; this professional group has deserved it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e47145	Mr Wolfgang Mückstein spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e47169	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! With the creation of the new professional profile of the operational assistant/operational assistant, we are implementing a long-term health claim. This government template creates a modern and sustainable profession for the Setting OP. This new profession takes into account health needs, especially in the field of surgery, and contributes to security of supply in Austria. The job profile and field of activity of the operational assistant shall include the Setting OP, but not only: It should also be possible to work in the emergency ambulance, in the shock room and in the endoscopy, but also in the treatment unit for medical devices. In addition, regulations are also being created to expand career opportunities, there is a permeability from operational assistance towards assistants and operational assistance. Finally, I would like to mention that the profession of the operational assistant is also registered in the health profession register. The development of this new profession will therefore be transparent in the framework of health care and extended the health professional register planning instrument by this professional group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e47209	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the conclusion of the negotiations on the Health Committee's submissions and continue to complete the agenda. [[21:01:42]] 38. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1163, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act and the Health and Food Safety Act (1275, e.g.) 39. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1173, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the EU Quality Regulations implementing law (1276, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e47252	We come to points 38 and 39 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mag. Christian Drobits. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e47282	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Agenda items 38 and 39 deal with two government documents relating to food safety and consumer protection. In principle, this is an important matter in which EU regulations are also to be implemented. These EU regulations will also be implemented, so my group has no problem at all. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] In the field of official controls, it is now possible to use other trained staff instead of veterinary doctors. We find this positive if these control bodies are also designated by the authorities. We also find it positive that the Federal Office for Consumer Health is now assigned clearly defined tasks as of 2022. – This is therefore an implementation of EU regulations, which we welcome very much. However, the fact that we cannot go along at all and will reject these two government proposals is due to the fact, as already stated in the Committee, that we do not understand that the penalties and sanctions in the field of food safety are greatly reduced or even abolished. In 2013 a minimum penalty of 700 euros for intentional fraud was imposed, and I believe that it is also necessary to impose sanctions on such intentional fraud. If these minimum penalties are abolished, the provision is toothless. It's the Safety in food safety is no longer given, a crime is almost treated as a cavalier offence. We also see it as a fundamental mistake that the maximum penalties are reduced from EUR 50 000 to EUR 35 000 or from EUR 100 000 to EUR 70 000 in the repeat case. The general preventive effect is lacking, and it is really a mistake of beauty in these draft laws that the sanctions are dropped and the principle of consulting instead of punishing is introduced. I think that the removal of sanctions also leads to less security, and that is an essential point in the field of food safety, which is why we cannot accept this draft. The same is true of the EU quality regulation implementing law and implementing regulations: There is also a problem in terms of penalties, but also in terms of control, which would actually be the responsibility of national leaders when it comes to labelling organic food in particular. We therefore believe that both draft laws must be rejected. I would also like to mention one important point because drinking water is a personal concern to me: The drinking water report must be submitted annually, Minister of Water Mückstein. A legal basis should also be established for us – as is the case with the Food Safety Report – to be presented to the drinking water report by 30.6. of the following year. I believe that this suggestion, which has been made by several bodies in the review process, must be taken into account. In any case, my group will not agree with both government proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e47334	Mrs Diesner-Wais has now been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e47355	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council! Dear viewer! Already the philosopher Ludwig Feuerbach said 170 years ago: “Man is what he eats.” Do we always know what we eat? – I think we do not always know it, especially with regard to food from third countries. In Austria we can be sure of our food, because of 22,000 samples that have been examined, 99.7 percent are safe from health. This is a good testimony to our food in Austria. However, there is a global trade in food, and we often do not know how these are produced in third countries. For Austria, it is often unimaginable how they are produced there, but the food is nevertheless imported. On the basis of the present draft legislation on the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, the Federal Office for Consumer Health will examine these foods from third countries from 2022 onwards so that they can also be detected in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As has already been pointed out, in the future in the slaughterhouses, not only the official veterinarians, but also particularly trained professionals can check in order to carry out a continuous examination. This is an important thing for the customer. A second point, contained in the draft law, concerns the biocontrols of dealers who offer biofood – this is also very important for the control of our food. – These are some adjustments resulting from EU law. But I would like to say a few words about how our farmers are doing, because they are doing a lot. They put a lot of effort and love into the production of food, cultivation, care and also harvest. They are well controlled and have strict rules, and then they often have to experience that their products are stored cheaply or even their regional food is exchanged for cheap goods from third countries. The designation of origin is therefore very important for which we are committed. This also needs to be implemented for processed foods so that the consumer knows what he is buying. I would therefore like to appeal to you all and also to all viewers – Christmas is at the door: Grab on regional products, whether that is carp, meat or even the native Christian tree!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e47406	Mr Wurm has been reported to speak. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e47428	Mr President. Minister! High house! Fathers. We now have two draft laws here: Both come more or less from Brussels, I say, and, of course, with everything that comes from Brussels, you have to look carefully and look at it twice. In short, to the explanation: In the first area – the colleagues have already explained it quite well – it is basically about the fact that the veterinarian has been responsible for the control, especially in slaughterhouses, in other words wherever meat and sausage are produced or processed. Brussels wants to be able to allow a parallel structure nationally in order to carry out these checks. We see that as critical to skeptical. Why we reject this law, in particular, has the reason for the interesting reduction of criminal threats, which we believe is more likely to indicate that the lobbyists of the large meat production plants in Europe have thus done good lobbying in Brussels. So we're going to reject the first law. It does not serve the safety of consumers, and that is the top priority for us. Especially with meat and sausage, everyone should know that, you have to look at it three times. We would like to see this in the final consequence of the veterinarian's control and that the penalties in the event of infringements are also harsh, so that they can feel the large farms if they do not carry them out properly. The second part is a rather pragmatic approach, which we will also support. This is a law which, in principle, excludes a person who deals with organic products but does not produce them himself, from this biocontrol or from the very complex bureaucratic control instrument. That makes sense. This should also reduce costs. Finally, because it is an important issue: You should not forget, Minister, and I would like to point out to you once again: We have galloping price increases in the food sector. You should act as a minister, but above all, Brussels should also be active in order to stop precisely this food price explosion, which is taking place in Europe and also in Austria, because it is now a major obstacle for very, very many consumers if they want to buy healthy food. I'll give you that for 2022, Minister: Please stop this price explosion in the food sector! Thank you. [[Called the ÖVP: This is called inflation!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e47461	Member Werner has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e47483	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! The adaptation of the Health and Food Safety Act to EU regulations as provided for by you will, inter alia, make the following changes: On the one hand, official controls in decommissioning plants should be carried out not only by veterinary personnel but also by other highly trained staff. On the other hand, this has already been mentioned several times, there are changes in the criminal framework. Minimum penalties are to be abolished, the criminal framework for the one-off offence is reduced from EUR 50 000 to EUR 35 000, in the case of repetition from EUR 100 000 to EUR 70 000. What does this mean for the consumer or the consumer? – The inspections and inspections in these decommissioning plants are central to the safety of food health in Austria. They protect us all from infections, for example with bacteria such as salmonella, E. coli or lysries, which can lead to severe diseases with death or in the case of pregnant women. We must therefore demand the highest possible degree of security from these establishments. If you impose minimum penalties and reduce the remaining penalties, you put the wrong signal in my eyes. The penalties can be paid out of the post office, even in the event of repeated infringements, the penalty no longer fulfils the purpose of deterrence. It is also absurd to abolish the minimum penalties on the one hand in the food sector and, on the other hand, introduce minimum penalties on the Covid-Strafen, thus taking every margin of action on the part of officials. I think that's just a client policy of the ÖVP. As the planned changes do not increase food safety in Austria but rather reduce it, we cannot and will not accept these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e47516	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the vote to the conclusion of the negotiations on the proposals of the Committee on Health. [[21:14:55]] 40. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 2062/A by Mr Franz Leonhard Eßl, Mr Clemens Stammler, Mr Delegate on a Federal Act amending the Animal Disease Act (1278, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e47555	We'll get to 40. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Members of Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e47585	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen. Not again, you want to mean: It is also in the current request for a virus for African swine fever. African swine fever is absolutely fatal for pigs, for humans, a zoonosis is excluded according to current knowledge. However, the pigs are really poor, because there is no vaccine against this virus, unlike other viruses, and there is no one in sight. What is the point of this proposal? – The application is intended to enable the procurement of mobile fence material to be put in place temporarily in areas where swine fever is approaching – especially in Hungary, in parts of the Czech Republic it has already been identified – and it is about a management plan to be able to decimate the black game stock. We know from China where the swine fever in 2018 was massively angry, that in the event of the outbreak there are trade restrictions to be expected, so we should do against it all that is in our power. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e47612	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e47633	The draft law, 1278 of the supplements, essentially provides that “the Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection may, in the event of a risk of introduction of an animal disease from abroad into the wild animal stock with a view to the specificity of the disease or the epidemiological situation, lay down the following veterinary police measures”, “if this can effectively address the introduction.” It may designate ‘the temporary ban on the entry of forests and agricultural land, except for the necessary proper management of such areas’ and may order ‘the temporary establishment of fences or other barriers on public property or on the basis of contractual agreement with the property concerned and [...] the establishment of a management plan in cooperation with the land authorities to reduce the density of the respective wildlife stock’. The cost of the necessary material for measures referred to in paragraph 2 shall in this case also be borne by the Federal Government. This law is to come into force with January 2022; it is necessary. My previous speaker has already said that it is to be expected that pigs who have been infected with swine fever are immigrating, which is why the novelle should be decided this year. We will agree to this novel because we do not want domestic pigs to be bred because swine fever has migrated to Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e47664	Mr Lindinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e47685	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! My colleagues have already mentioned this: It's a change in the animal disease law. It is a sensible request because it is a proactive fight against animal diseases, in the particular case African swine fever, which creates the necessary legal basis for this, lays down measures and thus ensures funding. That's what it's all about. Unfortunately, African swine fever is already extremely close to God, in many neighbouring countries, including Germany and the Czech Republic. Fortunately, we have remained spared from this swine fever. We hope that we will not need the measures we set out in the law and that we will remain spared in the future. On the whole, however, this is a measure that looks to the future. I'm asking for approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e47717	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[21:20:13]] Vote on agenda items 30 to 40
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e47742	We shall come to the vote. I ask the political groups whether we can vote: SPÖ, Greens, NEOS, FPÖ, ÖVP? . Then we come to the vote on the reports of the Committee on Health. We'll do it individually. Agenda item 30: Draft federal law, which amends the Federal Law to cover the need to combat the Covid-19 pandemic powers available through federal assets, in 1267 of the supplements. Hiezu is in favour of separate vote by Mr Kaniak. First of all, I should like to vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall vote separately on paragraph 1 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall vote on the remaining parts, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, which have not yet been voted. Whoever is to do so is also asked for a sign. – This is the majority, accepted. We'll come to the third reading. Whoever agrees to the draft law in third reading, I ask for a sign. – Same voting behaviour, also accepted by the majority in the third reading. Agenda item 31: Draft Federal Act amending the Health and Hospital Care Act, the MTD Act and the Sanitary Act in 1268 of the Supplements. Mr Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr President, have tabled an amendment. I must first vote on the parts of the bill concerned by the proposed amendment and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment on the subject. 1 Z 3. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall vote on the remaining parts, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, which have not yet been voted. Whoever is to do so is asked for a corresponding sign. - That's the unanimity. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever is in third reading for this draft law, I ask for a sign. – This is also unanimously adopted at third reading – with the same voting behaviour. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Muchitsch, Mr Mahrer, Mr Bürstmayr, Mr President, on the protection of hospitals – the protection of health workers – the protection of patients. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority; a different voting behaviour at the FPÖ. [[223/E]] We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 32: Draft federal law amending the Addiction Act, including title and receipt in 1269 of the Supplements. [[Unrest in the hall.]] – May I ask for attention so that everyone can also prepare for what he or she is voting for or not voting for. [[Cheerfulness with the NEOS.]] Agenda item 32: Draft federal law amending the Addiction Act, including title and receipt in 1269 of the Supplements. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. – Same voting behaviour, also accepted by the majority at third reading. Agenda item 33: Draft federal law amending the 1950 Epidemic Act and the COVID-19 Act in 1270 of the Supplements. There is a total amendment tabled by Mrs Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I am therefore entitled to vote on this draft law as amended by the amendments as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of this draft law, title and receipt in 1270 of the supplements, as amended by the amendment as a whole, by Mrs Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr Schalmeiner and others. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever accepts this bill in third reading also gives a sign. – This is the same voting behaviour, mostly accepted. Agenda item 34: Draft concerning a Federal Act amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act in 1271 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an additional request. I shall first vote on the supplementary proposal and then on the parts of the draft law that have not yet been agreed. Black, Soundmeiner and colleagues have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of points 1a and 8a into Article 1, point 3a in Article 2 and point 3a in Article 3. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Those who give their consent here are asked for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. Who is doing this in third reading? – This is the same voice behaviour. The draft law was also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Fierce, ladies and gentlemen, on'measures to increase the COVID vaccination in establishments'. Whoever is for this, I may ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on item 35, the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1272 of the Supplements on 'the start of an information campaign on the vaccination of children against the Sars-Cov-2 virus'. Whoever is for this, I may ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[224/E]] Agenda item 36, the resolution on ‘Anti-Fake-News Campaign for the COVID-19 Pandemic’ attached to the Committee’s report 1273. Whoever is in favour of it, I may ask him to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. [[225/E]] We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Brandstötter, colleagues, on '3 points plan against fake news and disinformation'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 37: Draft OTA Act in 1164 of the Supplements. Mr Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr President, have tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the part concerned by the amendment and then on the remaining parts of the draft law. Mr Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment on the subject. 5 Z 3. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We come to the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. Whoever is to do so is asked for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever is in third reading for this draft law, I would ask for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Agenda item 38: Draft Federal Act amending the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act and the Health and Food Safety Act, including the title and receipt in 1275 of the Supplements. Whoever is for this is asked for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. We'll come to the third reading. Who is doing this in third reading? - Same voice behaviour. The draft law is also adopted by a majority of the third reading. Agenda item 39: Draft federal law amending the EU Quality Regulation Enforcement Act, including title and receipt in 1173 of the Supplements. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. – This draft law – agenda item 39 – has also been adopted by a majority with the same voting behaviour at third reading. Final agenda item 40: Draft Federal Act amending the Animal Disease Act, including the title and receipt in 1278 of the Supplements. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – That is unanimous. We shall come to the third reading. Who is doing this in third reading? – Also adopted unanimously. [[21:28:50]] 41. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on amendment 2108/A(E) by Mr Peter Wurm, Members and colleagues on ‘1,000 Euro Austria voucher’ (1187 d.b.) 42. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on amendment 2000/A(E) by Mr MMMag. Dr. Axel Kassinger, colleagues on energy poverty – do not prevent electricity and gas price increases by public EVUs (1188 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e48119	We now come to Agenda items 41 and 42 on which the debates are being conducted under one. There was no oral reporting. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Fichtinger for his excellent report. I can give her the word. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e48146	Mr President. Minister! High house! Dear Seers! The Covid crisis has brought many people not only to their psychological limits, because of the various lockdowns and the increasing number of unemployed and people in short work, the financial reserves of these people have been used up massively. The cost of energy was already a heavy burden for low-income people before the Covid crisis. The announced price increases for electricity and gas hit these people particularly hard. A study by Statistics Austria shows that 94 000 households in Austria cannot afford to keep their homes properly warm. It is embarrassing that in a country like Austria, which, according to many comparisons, is really relatively rich, that is the very reality. That's really sad. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] discharge or support from the government? - Miss. Therefore, as SPÖ, we support the principle of preventing energy poverty. However, our proposal provides for a so-called inflation brake. This includes 300 euros of winter aid for low-income households and a halve of VAT on electricity and gas. With the implementation of the price brake, people would again be able to heat their homes properly. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, there are many good initiatives to prevent energy poverty; it is urgently necessary that you implement it.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e48186	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e48207	Mr President! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In a pandemic, in a crisis, it is important that we look at those people who are socially weak who are in need – we should help them at any time and comprehensively. I think that's exactly what we're doing as government parties. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Through numerous measures we have shown that we are in need. We have supported the farms, we have enabled support. There was the credit moratorium, there was the short work. All these measures help and arrive where people need it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What does not help is if we spend tax money on foundry projects, when we say that we give to all people – but no, the request does not target all people, it only targets Austrians – we give all Austrians a certain sum of money, whether they earn 10 000 euros or 500 euros per month. [[Interlocutory calls for Members of the European Parliament for smoke and Belakovich]] - That's not fair, that's unfair. [[Call the SPÖ:Income weak households!]] If I go out here as a Member and get a 1 000 euro voucher, then I can give it to him – but is it happening? - No, I don't. It needs a cost-effective balance for the socially weak. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] Today, we have put in place a measure that comes where people need it: People who receive social assistance, the minimum benefit, the unemployed, pensioners who receive a compensation allowance, but also students receive a certain amount in the first half of the quarter – and so it is fair. 1 000 euros, however, to all those in Austria who have Austrian citizenship is only populist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e48271	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e48292	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! The Austrian households currently have a lot to do with it. Many Austrians – and also those who have been in employment for years and decades – are no longer aware of how they are to cope with an average income in order to maintain their standard of living. In urban space, housing costs are increasing steadily. One-fifth to one-third of the income is spent on housing costs. With small incomes it is much more. In rural areas, we need to take more control and spend on mobility. In addition, expenditure on food, household items, clothing, every now and then a holiday, then and when an unplanned issue and even energy costs. With a salary, it can only be difficult for a family to finance. This is the reality of many households in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. By the way, electricity and gas prices were increased by 7 percent in the last year, with heating oil even 40 percent, and the trend is rising. Therefore, many households do not struggle with a sluggish, but with a galloping inflation, and this could be met with a stop for the increase of gas and electricity prices in public energy suppliers, as our business expert Axel Kassinger has requested. That's not what Green and Turquoise want. We have heard from the Committee that we should not intervene in the market, it will already be regulated – we have heard about greens – even about planning. - Listen, listen! Thus, the Greens have now arrived in the free market economy and are no longer different from the ÖVP. Ladies and gentlemen, special circumstances require special measures, but there is nothing to do with planning. Grab hold of other things You also have the power to: They exclude unvaccinated, tested fellow citizens from social and cultural life. You can just go to work and back home. They can pay taxes, but they have to spend the vacation at home. Food may buy them, clothing not, or they may be punished. There is no intervention too much for you, ladies and gentlemen, because we have a crisis. But when it comes to intervening with the energy supplier, with the energy industry in the sense of consumers, it is not possible. Ladies and gentlemen, at the next election, the people will remember and you will be presented your bill – and it will not be a happy account for you, I can tell you now.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e48332	Mr Egger is speaking on behalf of the PSE Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e48353	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The energy costs are a very, very important issue, and I think it is high time – I'm taking my mask off – to seriously discuss this issue too. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: Mask!]] I only find it very exciting when the SPÖ is outraged that the Federal Government is not doing anything. I know a concrete example of Vienna's energy, which clearly shows that electricity costs were increased by more than 40 percent – at which Vienna's energy, under a SPÖ mayor. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scrolling]] [[Call at SPÖ:48...!]] To come in front of your own door would be great. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] But one thing is clear and this also shows us the current discussion: We must see that we are becoming as independent as possible of foreign energy imports, and therefore the highest priority is the expansion of renewable energy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We have set ourselves a very ambitious target by 2030, but it is urgently necessary to reduce the process life of wind farms and hydroelectric power plants. Those who demonstrate for climate protection on Friday must support the necessary projects on Monday – and we are very much in favour of implementing them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Such EIA procedures should take up to two years – with all the needs that exist in this process. We're here.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e48425	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Deputies of smoke are not here, then we come to honourable Werner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e48446	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I refer to the 1 000 euro voucher. What's he targeting? – On the one hand, it is intended to cover people who are currently affected by rising inflation, and on the other hand, it also wants to support the economy, which is well-buffed by constant lock-up and lock-up, and to bind the purchasing power in the country. Yes, it is financially narrow for many people and companies. Many people suffer from high inflation. I sometimes wonder myself when I stand at the supermarket bank and see how little in my shopping bag is inside for the money I pay. Many do not know how to pay electricity and gas bills, and Christmas is also at the door, a particularly sensitive time, in which money is often twice as heavy as usual. – Why does such a voucher not make sense from our point of view? First of all: The time is wrong. High inflation is also driven by higher demand. If you get a voucher, you pour more oil into the fire. Secondly, Targeted? – The colleague from the Greens has already mentioned it: Everyone would get the voucher, even here. Which citizen would understand? Thirdly, If such subsidies are introduced, then there is nothing else to be done to raise the printing machine and to make debts at the expense of the next generations. – Not responsible, not far-sighted! [[Call the ÖVP:Four?]] And fourthly, it's also discriminatory. What would the alternatives be? We are constructive and always try to show alternatives. So how can we really get under the arms of the people who sit in a cold apartment and with whom there is a toast bread week four times a month? First: Let's take off the cold progression! We can do this. Everyone has promised, we will finally fulfill this promise! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Secondly, announced tax reform is preferable. We could do that with January. Thirdly, Let's help where it's really necessary. It needs heating, energy, housing subsidies! And fourthly, Finally bring pandemic under control – together! Only in this way, as a society, can we return to a safe water system and thus allow people to take good care of themselves again; for one thing is certain: Each one prefers work and a regulated income rather than a alms. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e48489	Mr Litschauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e48510	Mr President. Minister! High house! Yeah, where do you start? This 1 000 euro voucher has been discussed in the Committee. I am still not able to find out what purpose it is to fulfil and where exactly it is intended to help. This has still not been explained. In contrast, we think exactly where we want to help. Mr Koza has already done very well today, I think, where we are going everywhere: in the case of climate bonus, we are reducing the contribution to eco-electric production next year, there is an intervention in the wage tax, and - what we have presented today - there is a price compensation. We have considered this very carefully where it is supposed to work. This is about supporting unemployed people, supporting social assistance and minimum pensioners, supporting pensioners with compensation, and supporting students. It really is about helping those who need it most urgently. If I hear other proposals here, then I have to say that I was a little emotional and pretty slow last time when I hear these debates on VAT reduction. Today, the SPÖ has already adopted the proposal to reduce or halve VAT on natural gas. Mr Loacker has also said today that we should be taxing sales on energy. lower. I can't figure this out any more. This morning we heard that the CO2 tax is too high, and at the same time you are yelling that we should reduce VAT on these energy sources. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's a negative CO2 tax you're demanding! I don't understand how to object like that! At the last meeting, a request from the SPÖ, a motion for a resolution to halve VAT, came at the same item on the agenda, a second motion for a resolution on the abolition of the preference of fossil energy sources. We could have decided on the reduction and then reversed it immediately, which is a promotion of fossil fuels. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Please decide! At the same item on the agenda once and then to ask the opposite, that is no longer the case. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sir.]] You're talking about the energy suppliers. – You have a national energy supplier in Vienna, which can take action. Or: Her freeman is in Upper Austria in the state government. – What was done about the land energy supplier there? Here we cry out to reduce VAT so that the profits of national energy suppliers continue to flow so that the dividends continue to flow in the countries. A system change is not meant because you are too cowardly to do so. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I also miss an excuse that gas has been fueled for decades. Why do so many apartments have natural gas? I've been asking last time: Where is the excuse that you have misconceptions that you have built wrong for decades? Why has there been no requirement in social housing that gas heating should not be used because this will be the energy price drivers? Everything has been missed, and now you're coming up with what happened, but you're not apologizing, you're just yelling for general solutions. Please take this into your hands in the countries too and half! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You also have the opportunity there to increase heating costs. This has not yet been done to any extent. Do not push on to the covenant, but go where it is! And heating costs subsidies are country-related, so do not shift to the federal government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e48595	Member of the Tsarits has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e48622	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The corona crisis is undoubtedly an exceptional situation, and of course you need exceptional solutions in an exceptional situation. 21 months of corona pandemic! It was our goal and it is to help the people who have come into a difficult situation without guilt, of course, quickly and unbureaucratically. We have a goal: We want to protect people's health, we want to ensure social security in Austria, we want to secure jobs, and we want to ensure that entrepreneurs, of course, also economically. This requires several measures. There are the various industries in the economy, an industry is more affected by Corona, the other sector less; there are people who are certainly in difficult situations who are unemployed, families who certainly also need support. Over the last 21 months, we have made the right decisions, adapted to the various industries and adapted to the various target groups. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Mr Fischer has already mentioned this: The FPÖ application is populist. You've made this a little easy. I wasn't necessarily the world champion in mathematics, but if it was too easy to solve, I always knew it was definitely wrong. Ladies and gentlemen! We have invested 50 billion euros in the Corona crisis – with the aim of helping quickly and unbureaucratically. We have been very, very successful, and I would like to remind you of many measures, especially in the family sector. September 2020: 360 euros for every child, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We have managed, and this is unique in Europe, to secure 1.4 million jobs with the corona-short work. In addition to the extension of the short work already mentioned by Minister Kocher, we now also have a short work bonus, if someone has been in short work for more than ten months. That's 500 euros. This is good and right, and this helps people who have to get out with less money in short work. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We have paid twice the unemployment bonus, up to 450 euros in September 2020 and December 2020. It has also been referred to the payment of the price. This is very important: EUR 150 in the first quarter for people who are unemployed, for people who are subject to minimum insurance, for students who are eligible for study, and also for those who benefit from the compensation allowance. We've done a lot! Family hard work compensation fund: up to EUR 3 600. More than 100 000 applications have been submitted and 131.9 million euros have already been paid; in particular, single and single teachers benefit from this measure. Ladies and gentlemen! One is to help quickly and unbureaucratically in the crisis, and the other is to relieve the people who work, and the labour factor in the long term. We decided on the first part of the tax reform last year. The level 1 tax has been reduced from 25 to 20 percent. This is up to 350 euros more in the wallet of employees. In July 2022 we will also lower the second level, from 35 to 30 percent – that is up to 560 euros – and the third stage in 2023. That's the right way! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We have also succeeded in increasing the family bonus together with our coalition partner: from 1 500 euros to 2 000 euros. Hundreds of thousands of families, hundreds of thousands of children, will benefit from this measure. Of course, the climate bonus is also to be mentioned – it has already been addressed by colleague Fischer. I'm from the countryside. Many of us who live in rural areas, of course, depend on the car, need the car to get into work, and with the climate bonus we create a real discharge of 100 euros up to 200 euros in the rural area, and in addition, half of the amount per child is added. I think, together with the coalition partner, we have put in place many measures in the crisis to help people who also need our help, and we are taking the right measures in the long term to release people - to relieve them - and to ensure that people have more in the stock exchange. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Lausch: “To release, ” exactly!]] A warm thanks also to the coalition partner that we will decide together with you this eco-social tax reform!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e48692	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I put the votes back to the end of the negotiations on the Committee's proposals. [[21:52:11]] 43. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on Amendment No 2089/A(E) by Mr Peter Weidinger, Mag. Ulrike Fischer, colleagues and colleagues on ‘Delivery point’ (1189, B.C.E.) 44. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on amendment 1861/A(E) by Mr Mag. Christian Drobits, colleagues in the field of debt protection – setting up an ombudsman to advise on financial problems by the Federal Ministry of Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection (1190 d.b.) 45. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on amendment 2090/A(E) by Mr Mag. Ulrike Fischer, Peter Weidinger, colleagues on “Representation of the interests of consumers in standardisation” (1191, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e48759	We shall now proceed to items 43 to 45 of the agenda. The debates will be carried out again under one. There was no oral reporting. Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e48786	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I will not be tired of mentioning that due to the pandemic many who count in the final effect of the middle layer of our society come into a situation innocently, colleague, in which they do not get out of the debt spiral. [[Call the ÖVP: Neither do we!]] If that doesn't matter, as you said, because you looked at me, I'll tell you openly and honestly: We, the SPÖ, don't care that many people don't get out of this debt spiral anymore, and that's why we've been straining a debt shield that's supposed to help them out and give them air to breathe. We have, because you did not understand, Mr President, because he was too complicated with the ten points, and today is a point on the agenda, whose implementation we have already prepared, in the form of the establishment of an ombudsman as a point of contact for those who do not have this assistance, as they have the banks you have given in 2008 so that they do not get into this situation. We also have this point of contact on the programme today, and my group is quite able to give these people a helping hand. Today, the government parties make the following: They say that we are making a “a default point of payment. ” In principle, this is the same request that we have made, and I am proud that we are today, on 15.12. – that day, until which, according to our request by the Federal Minister, a draft law which provides for the establishment of such an ombudsmanship is to be presented at the latest – your request, a request from the government parties. That's what we're proud of. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Peter Weidinger, a consumer protection speaker, spoke to me, said we should communicate, we can exchange, there are good ideas. I said: Yes, we do. In principle, you have essentially accepted our request. It's not much new inside. I would have been pleased – and I am not vain – if you had told us, we would do so together, as is the case in other areas. Unfortunately, it didn't happen. However, on the nine other points, we also have other opportunities to work together in the interests of those debtors who are no longer able to get out of their situation. I offer you – from an occasion – that we make a joint request regarding the collection area. There is a specific case: A 21-year-old painter has come into an Internet debt trap, there is an extra charge of 7 000 euros against him due to a fraud story. It will be executed against it, and there are not only the 7 000 euros of capital requirement, but also a collection fee of 650 euros and, after five months, interest and other costs of a total of 11 000 euros. Dear colleague Weidinger! I would expect us to make a request together, as we have already discussed, in which we say that there are flat-rate amounts for collection fees, because we do not want the collection offices to make these stories in the future, regardless of whether they are operated by banks or by themselves. With the SPÖ there's no magic to make. We want consumers and consumers – as well as banks 2008 – to be saved in this pandemic, especially because they have come into this situation innocently, and we also want this debt protection shield to be extended together. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e48829	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e48850	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! These are two requests that we have successfully discussed in the Consumer Protection Committee. On the one hand, it is about the department for standardisation. That sounds so dry. Standardization, Consumer Council, what do we need it for? – Our whole life consists of Standards: No matter if we go by bike here, whether we drive here by car, whether we need glasses, whether we wear a mask, there are standards everywhere. These standards are designed by Austrian standards, and in previous years it was so that consumer interests have been lacking – no, because this institution has mainly taken economic matters into account. The establishment of the Consumer Council has also enabled consumer interests to be taken into account. That's where you're wondering: Is that so important? It is about the state of the art being clarified, and standards are non-binding and concern technical details! - But that's not the way it is. Standards can be declared binding. Many of you have children or friends who have children, or grandchildren and like to give toys, for example in the Christmas season, and Franz Fiala, who is currently taking care of the job and retired next year, has done something he can be proud of and what I would like to congratulate him for today: He has managed that the EU has now made a provision that Anilin – which sounds almost like Vanillin, but Anilin is included in toys, is carcinogenic, is very toxic – that this material should no longer be used in toys, and our ministry is on it and on it, as a corresponding arrangement is to be found. That is why I would like to thank the Council of Consumers at this point. The determination of the children's toy must be up to 4. In December, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member But just to show how to feed the squirrel: The Consumer Council has already registered this in 2016. In other words, it is very important that consumer interests be taken into account in standardisation and take even more account. A standardisation department will therefore be set up in order to ensure that consumers' interests are better taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e48890	Member of the Worm has been reported to speak. [[Abg. Worm talks to ODP MPs.]] – Mr Wurm? Isn't it? Still? [[Abg. Worm hastens to the speaker's desk.]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e48923	Mr President. Minister! High house! Fathers. As far as consumer protection is concerned in the face of financial problems, the lower edge is, as usual, a minimal programme of ÖVP and greens. We have called for – as was the case after the first lockdown, after the first crisis, and I am a little disappointed that social democracy is so easily getting over the table – that consumers and micro-enterprises are really protected in terms of their credit repayments, and are protected by law if they are in difficulty due to the corona measures. This is unfortunately, as we all or hopefully most know, ended at the end of February of this year. In Austria, micro-enterprises – and the ÖVP should know that this is almost 90 percent of all entrepreneurs – hang in the air when there are liquidity problems, and, of course, all Austrians in the private sector who suffer from unemployment or short-time work in the corona crisis. Again: We would have liked to have, but there was no chance that these people would also have a protection and not be delivered to the banks as long as the crisis – in your use of language – persists. This has not been achieved. This ominous shield of an authority, I believe, will not really help people. We take note of this. We'll continue to fight. Perhaps you can achieve something better in the new year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e48958	Mrs Weidinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e48980	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians, dear Austrians and all the people who live in our country! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] We're on the side of people. We are committed to people, and we are doing so with determination. We are not tired of the unbild of the pandemic, but we will continue to work to ensure that the Austrians have a good future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Mr President, we are doing this with determination, because we are taking very clear action: We created a loan moratorium that lasted ten months – that was longer than in Germany. We have introduced assistance services, we have created the possibility of assistance and we are concerned to support people precisely where it is necessary. All of this is always borne by the spirit of cooperation and dialogue, which is why I would like to start with what we agree with colleagues Drobits: Of course, I accept your outstretched hand because the most important thing is that we have an opponent, and that's the fight against the virus. We must all work together as the responsible forces of this House. With this request, we are creating a starting point for people who have difficulties in paying due to loans. Our request is different from the request of social democracy, when we believe that it is not necessary for new authorities to do so, that there is no need for dual liquefaction, but that there is a need for synergies. We have excellent sectors – the interest groups and also the banks – that are working there. I would like to thank, here, especially the bank staff who, during these challenging times, are trying to reach out to every individual customer who is trying to create consumer-friendly solutions. – That’s right and that’s necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, with a one-time payment of 150 euros, we have created a cost compensation for people who do not have it socially and easily from their incomes. We will delete the green electricity contribution for the next year in order to relieve households by an average of 67 euros. That is to say, we are strengthening the role of consumers by allowing them to flow liquidity and purchasing power. – That’s right and that’s necessary. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] With this request we make a valuable contribution, and also by listening to people, by talking with them and by reaching common consumer-friendly solutions in consultation with them. This is good for the households and that is good for the people in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e49038	Mr Köchl has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e49059	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I have now listened to my Carinthian colleague Weidinger of the ÖVP. When I think of the Committee on Consumer Protection and the ÖVP and what happened in the past in these committee meetings, I have to tell you quite honestly that you have never really been there for the little man in Austria. I don't think so. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] In my political activity, especially in the many years as mayor, I have always been concerned that people are fine, that the little people, those who don't deserve so well, are simply better and that they can afford to live. This is a basic condition that should apply to all national councils. What I'm saying now doesn't concern us here in the high house, which we deserve quite well, or any concert manager or cable car owner or anyone else, but it really concerns those who can't cover their account, who may have lost their job, who are temporarily looking for work, who don't get work or are in short work. None of these people could imagine that it will come to the corona crisis and that it will take so long. The constant self-existence care of these people then also affects the psyche, and yet this government is not willing to do something for these people. [[Abg. Hörl: You also have a problem with the psyche!]] My colleague has already said that the banks received everything from the ÖVP in 2008, 2009, 2010, and they have gotten everything across Europe. Now it is about extending the deadlines for credit rates or not demanding such high interest rates – 10 to 12 percent are now, and we demand that it be up to 5 percent. It's important that the banks meet people there. I don't understand that you can still say that you're there for people. You're not there for the little people, but for the big, for the friends in politics, the ÖVP is already there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Col. Hörl nods: It's clear to you that you're helping your friends, that's quite logical. [[Call the ÖVP: Don't be silly!]] I do not understand why there is no relinquishing of this law. There can be no such thing as that at the end of the day! Federal Chancellor Kurz, who is no longer here today – I say: Thank God! – is the one who said: “It costs what it wants,” and you do not put it together that people will be extended the deadlines in the next half year. Everything will be extended, the short work will be extended, you will do everything for the large businesses, but you do not put it together that those people who have almost no salary may overlay the account. [[Abg. Steinacker: For the people in the country! For the people!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think you should think about that. Don't go out here and say, We have always helped people, because you have never helped people!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e49158	Mr Kühberger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e49180	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! In 1980, Austrian households were indebted to over 30 billion euros. That was about 60 percent of the annual income. In 2018 this was already 180 billion euros and over 90 percent of the annual income. But you do not need to be scared at this moment, because if you look at these figures carefully and compare them with Europeans, then we are actually on the road well, we are actually in the middle. People pick up money, especially when they buy a house or an apartment – residential loans – but of course also for consumption. We know that real estate prices have increased, construction costs have increased, and of course you need a loan if you build a house today. It will become a problem if you cannot repay this loan. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many reasons for such a situation: Unemployment, or the self-employment that may have failed, and yes – it has also been addressed – Corona has also contributed to it. But I would like to mention again – my previous speaker Christoph Zaritshat mentioned this – that the government and we here in the House have done good work, that we have seen that the people, the Austrians, are not being let down, that we have seen that we are bringing a lot of money precisely to them, that we have introduced the short work, that we have done the hardening fund or credit support. The Austrian Federal Government and we as MEPs have done very good work. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must be so honest: The corona crisis is not over yet. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Singer.]] We'll give it all. Of course, we are not going to be able to intercept every single person who may have come innocently into this mischievous financial situation, but we are doing our best. I am therefore very proud and also grateful that this first point of contact is now coming, where people are unbureaucratically helped, where they are advised, where – this is also a mental burden – their concerns are heard. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] – Yes, you can look, now I come to you anyway! I'll tell you one thing: If you look at the last two years, you can already see that the ÖVP and our coalition partner, the Greens – Mr. Köchl, and I am not with you – are outside people, that we have decided to take these measures so that the money has arrived targeting where it is necessary. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Worm]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is in the EIA's DNA that we take people's problems and concerns seriously outside and then create solutions. And because I'm the last speaker, I wish you a nice evening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e49264	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e49297	Very nice, thank you for the welcome applause. [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] Mr President. High house! It is an honor to speak here on this issue when Mr Kühberger is so pure and believes that he is only with people or wherever he is. – Dear colleagues from the ÖVP, you are so far away from people, you don’t believe that, as far as you are. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] You can see that from all that you produce here every day, tomorrow's day will show it. Debt advice is the best example of how far you are away from the issue when it comes to consumer protection. We asked for 5 per cent cover at overdraft interest rates. This would have been a measure for the citizens to support them and to appreciate them accordingly, especially at this time of the Corona crisis, in which we are now. Supports are one issue that would be important in the field, on the other hand, we had the measures relating to short-time work. The short-term work has brought many consumers, citizens and citizens, and this bottleneck has to be somehow eliminated in the final effect. But they are not willing to break down this bottleneck. One more way to the government bank: Mr. Federal Minister, I would have expected you to speak. However, they are not even able to take a position on this important issue in the field of consumer protection. Col. Weidinger, just to you – ah, he's sitting there in the back. He always applauds so extreme and so intense, but when it comes to promoting himself for the citizens, he is very, very far away. He's thanking the banks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weidinger.]] For what? That they do business every day with the fact that others, especially those who are in an emergency, have to pay more, in a debt trap? – You are very, very far away from the citizens of the ÖVP, I tell you! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And if you do something, it's usually half-hearted. If you then implement it, it is double-track as well as very related to your clients – not in the interests of citizens and not in the interests of consumers.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e49365	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[The President gives the bell sign.]] I can still ask for a little attention, we're done right now. Does the reporting wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. [[22:13:52]] Vote on agenda items 41 to 45
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e49404	We shall now proceed to the votes. Can we vote? - Yes. Agenda item 41: Vote on the request from the Committee on Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1187 of the supplements. Whoever does that, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Agenda item 42: Proposal from the Committee on Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1188 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Agenda item 43: Vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1189 of the Supplements on ‘Denomination point of payment’. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[226/E]] Agenda item 44: Proposal from the Committee on Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1190 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign. – This is the majority, accepted. Agenda item 45: the resolution annexed to the Committee report 1191 of the Supplements on ‘Representation of the interests of consumers in standardisation’. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[227/E]] The agenda is exhausted. I can thank Mr Mückstein for coming. [[22:15:17]] Vote on a request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e49511	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Mr Prince, ladies and gentlemen, to the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 2124/A, a deadline until 16. ==References== Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. [[22:15:38]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2021-12-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00135_d8e49538	I am entitled to announce that, at today's meeting, the self-employed have received applications from 2126/A to 2148/A(E). The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 10:16 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
