ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e1841	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to warmly welcome you, also the ladies and gentlemen, journalists at the gallery and the ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens. I welcome the Federal Government – the Federal Chancellor, Mr Vice-Chancellor and the other members of the government. I'm allowed to do the 77. Open a meeting based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure. As prevented, MEPs are reported Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich, Mag. Andreas Hanger, Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch, Christian Hafenecker, MAund Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e1887	The Federal Chancellery received the following letter: “I am honoured to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 11. January 2021, pursuant to Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act, Mrs Federal Minister Mag. (FH) Christine Aschbacher has removed her wish from the office accordingly. At the same time, under Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the President of the Federal Government has Mr. Univ.-Prof. Mag. Dr. Martin Kocherto be appointed Federal Minister for Labour, Family and Youth.” I should like to thank Mrs Aschbacher for her valuable work at this point – at a very challenging time, which has moved almost all the time of her ministry. I should also like to thank her for her approach, which she has repeatedly expressed and argued in her speeches here in Parliament, as well as for her respectful dealings with Parliament. [[It was in favour of ÖVP and Greens, as well as SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] At the same time, I should like to warmly welcome the new Minister of Labour here in the House, at a time that is very much in demand in this area. This is a very, very responsible task, because we are in one of the deepest economic crises since 1945, in which the labour market is particularly required. I can ask you, Mr Minister – I am sure that we will have good cooperation – to have a strong exchange with Parliament, because in this situation Parliament too is always an essential partner, it was and will be in the future. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e1927	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Alma Zadić, LL.M. will be appointed by Vice Chancellor Mag. Werner Kogler and Federal Minister for External Power. Alexander Schallenberg, LL.M. Claudia Tanner. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e1975	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for a brief debate on the reply to the question 4066/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e2116	Before entering the agenda, I may state that the request made in accordance with Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure is a matter for the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Mr Schnedlitz, colleagues on "Terroric attack in Vienna" to hold 54 questions of profile" by the Federal Minister for the Interior. This debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. I can announce that this meeting will be held from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III in full length. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e2148	In order to be able to negotiate items 4 and 5 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the Committee's reports. Points 4 and 5 are the reports of the Health Committee on Amendments Nos 1124/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Schallmeiner, Mr Schalmein, Mr Colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on a grant of aid to the countries due to the Covid-19 crisis (627 of the Supplements), and Mr Kollross, colleagues and colleagues concerning communities: Replacement of the costs for carrying out mass tests (628 of the supplements). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to the withdrawal from the time-limit for these committee reports, to give a sign on this point. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e2179	It is proposed that the debate on points 2 to 5 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e2200	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 4.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP 88, SPÖ 61, FPÖ 50, Green 45 and NEOS 36 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, each 18 minutes. The speaking time is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We come to the vote on speaking time. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Let's go into the agenda. [[09:11:26]] 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the occasion of the appointment of the new Federal Minister for Labour, Family and Youth
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e2248	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. Following these declarations, a debate will take place within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with this request, which is sufficiently supported. Please, Mr Angerer, you have spoken on business.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e2284	Mr President. Estimated government members! High house! I would like to return to the debate on the Rules of Procedure of yesterday's sitting. Mr President, you have made a preliminary report on a letter that you have sent to us. Our clubman has spoken about this. There have then been several interruptions by you and therefore I have two suggestions for the next President: First of all, we want to clarify the legal basis on which your speech was based, especially as it was in no context with the agenda and also lasted relatively long. Secondly, we believe that, in the course of a debate on the Rules of Procedure and a statement on business management, it is not imperative for a request to be made. You requested from our clubman yesterday that he make a request. In our opinion, this is not necessarily necessary, and we therefore want these two points to be dealt with in the next presidential term.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e2314	I am happy to deal with these points. I am moving on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, and there is, of course, a provision to make or apply for business treatment. [[Abg. Kickl: You've never looked in there!]] It is also clear in the Rules of Procedure that the President can, of course, take the floor. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e2349	Mr President. I have to speak again now, because as far as I read § 59 of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 2: ‘If a Member fails to make a request for business treatment, the President shall be entitled to give him the floor only at the end of the meeting.’
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e2390	Read the next paragraphs! [[Abg. Belakovich: Maybe you read the Rules of Procedure!]] We are now coming to the Federal Chancellor's statement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schnedlitz: After the President...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] – The Federal Chancellor is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e2456	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank, in particular Mr Vice-Chancellor. Ladies and gentlemen, follow this meeting from home! Nice morning! I am pleased to present Martin Kocher to you today as a new Minister of Labour. We all know that we've been in the midst of one of the most difficult pandemics for almost a year. We are not only required in the health crisis, but this pandemic has also triggered a global economic crisis that does not make a bow around Austria and which is also massively calling for us in the area of economic and employment. Although Austria in the European Union is now again among the lowest-infection countries – we have been in the third of the lowest-infection countries for a few weeks – the situation is nevertheless extremely volatile. We experience variants, mutations of the virus that are now spreading in Europe, which are not only found in the UK or South Africa, but also in other European countries, also in our neighbouring countries. We can also detect more and more cases. It is clear, then, that the acute pandemic will continue to concern us for months, but as mentioned in the summer: There is light at the end of the tunnel, through the vaccination we will be able to return to normality more and more in the direction of summer. [[Abg. Amesbauer: You said that last year!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: You said that a year ago!]] [[Abg. Kickl: You won't be able to get up again!]] I do not want to address the health crisis any more today, but rather to limit myself to the idea of Martin Kocher. I said in the first place: The health crisis has triggered a world economic crisis, which has also not made a bow around Austria. Unfortunately, the figures show in a dramatic way. We had an economic downturn of 7.5 percent in 2020, we are still experiencing an economically very, very challenging situation. We have tried all year 2020 to best address the challenges and consequences of this crisis. In total, we have paid or promised more than 30 billion euros to support companies and their employees as much as possible. At the height of the crisis, well over one million people were in short work. This is negative on the one hand, but positive on the other, because it has succeeded in saving many jobs that would otherwise have been destroyed. At this point I would like to thank the entire government team, but especially Christine Aschbacher, who has left the government team, for her work, for her really tireless commitment last year. [[Abg. Belakovich: What work?]] I can only say that I firmly believe that if accusations are raised against people, whether against politicians or others, everyone has always earned a fair trial. But I respect her decision to relinquish her office immediately, also to protect her family. I thank her for her work and wish her all the best for her further career. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] As head of government, it was not only important for me to make a good decision, but above all to make a quick decision on staff, because especially in times like this, it is important that we work on high-speed tours in all areas of the Federal Government. I am glad that Susanne Raab was willing to take over the agendas for family and youth in addition to their tasks, and I would like to thank Martin Kocher for being willing to join the government team and take over the tasks in the field of work and labour market. This is now, in the acute phase of the crisis, a challenging area, but it will remain a challenging one, because the main task, in addition to crisis management in the coming months and years, will be to re-emerge Austria's old strength in the field of employment and the economy. Martin Kocher is an internationally recognized expert with an impressive career, most recently he was director of the IHS. He has been with us this year of the crisis again and again – not only a thank you for the good support and advice last year, but also, above all, thank you for being ready to take over this task. This is not a matter of course. Welcome to the team, I look forward to working together! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The challenges in the field of economy and work for Gernot Blümel, Margarete Schramböck and Martin Kocher are great. I mentioned it at the beginning: We are still in the acute phase of the crisis, with an unemployment of over 530 000 people, with currently around 400 000 people in short work, and we know that the next few months will remain extremely difficult. It is, therefore, the essential task to be undertaken in this area. In this area, the best way to reduce the impact of the crisis is to do everything possible, such as short-time work and others, to secure as many jobs as possible despite the crisis. Further, it is about the struggle, the need to create jobs again, to get people back into work, and to do everything we can to get back to old strength as soon as possible. As a third area, I see, of course – we have already experienced this before the crisis, the crisis has accelerated and made it more visible – the great transformation that takes place on the labour market, especially through digitalisation. In this sense a warm thanks to Martin Kocher for the willingness to be available. This is not a matter of course. I have repeatedly brought experts to the Federal Government, bringing people into the Federal Government, who have completed an impressive career outside politics, but who have little political experience. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] The challenge for everyone was always the same, namely that in the government – of course also by the opposition, but also by the media – it is hard to understand that criticism is bigger and that much has to be done. [[Abg. Kickl: The Minister of Education...!]] In this sense, I say, it is not a matter of course that you, as an expert, have responded to this task, especially in this crisis, I appreciate it. Thank you so much! Welcome! I look forward to working together.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e2570	Mr Vice-Chancellor is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e2591	Mr President. Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank, in particular Martin Kocher! It is also a real and honest great pleasure for me to welcome you to our team and, on the occasion of this idea, to address a few words to you, honourable Members. First of all: Yes, Martin Kocher is indeed an internationally recognized expert who is active in several fields, in several scientific and policy-related fields, and now especially economic fields, which are now needed. So if the experts have already been named, this is something with an additional qualification from the field of activity. And yes, we were in the exchange no later than spring, which affected the question of consultation. I have always felt that this exchange was enriching; all the more so now, if we can enter into a deep cooperation – at the right time, the situation is particularly difficult right now. Therefore, thank you for accepting this challenge. This is really not a matter of course. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I have often needed the image that fighting this Corona crisis is a long-distance run. I know you're a passionate marathon runner, we can do that now, I think, in the team. We look at at least the last kilometers, most of which are the most difficult in the marathon. In addition now comes through the virus mutations counterwind, you almost have the feeling that it is still going uphill. All the more, we have to bundle all the forces, scratch the sleeves, and these last kilometers – these are still the next few months, the Federal Chancellor has said – with common effort and cohesion – I hope to move forward here in the house too – so together. I believe that the new colleague will bring a lot, very much. From my colleague's point of view: Yes, I would like to thank Christine Aschbacher expressly for the cooperation, even in the case of all criticism that is now in the hands of Christine Aschbacher – I do not want to evaluate it at all – because it was so and because it corresponds to the truth from my point of view. [[Abg. Kickl: What would the suit say?]] The cooperation was a very good one, it existed with her – and with her cabinet, even this can be mentioned here – a really good basis of exchange, and it has also been very successful! [[Abg. Belakovich: What?- Oh, my God!]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] It has also been very successful – if I may use it – because this also concerns the work base of the new colleague Kocher, the setting-up of short work. Their development and reform will be a task, but we can still assume that this is a unique success model, even if it costs something. However, we assume that this would not be done or would cost much more. These are also economic assessment issues, and it is really about the fate of hundreds of thousands of people. I think at this point – in this respect we should at least find an agreement here in the house – has really been very successful. It is now a matter of continuing development, because, as far as the economic and social impact of this health crisis is concerned, we have to adapt again and again in order to set the right instruments precisely, as well as in such uncertain times. I am confident that the new Minister is exactly the right one for this. The health crisis is just about to lead to rejections, also in the labour market and even in economic life, which is quite clear, but one must already be said: The fight against this health crisis is itself a prerequisite for economic prosperity and also for employment. If we did not do this in order to protect the economy – as some people might represent here; that is what they do not know – we would risk that there are hundreds of thousands of infections with correspondingly many cases of disease and a correspondingly higher number of serious disease cases et cetera. This too paralyzes the economy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] That is why we believe that the fight against the health crisis with its impact is also a contribution to economic and employment, because we cannot simply let the pandemic run free. That is what we would like to see, also in the economic field. – That once, because you’re already preparing for an intermediate call – now you’ve forgotten it, gal? [[towards Abg. Worm]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with Greens and ÖVP.]] We have always been in line with the IHS, but also with the Economic Research Institute, how these things are related. We have now invested in the company's arms and in bridging aid, and we also have a word on this: I do not think at all of studies that explain to us that this is only entrepreneurship or entrepreneurship promotion. Well, if you look at our economic system, you will find that many in the Austrian industry – thank God, it is very modern – work mainly in small and medium-sized enterprises. If we do not want to let the crisis fully pass, so that companies do not disappear from the market in large numbers, because it did not go any different in this crisis, then this aid and this support for companies is also a great contribution to ensuring existing employment. That's perfectly logical. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] At this point the division has relatively little meaning – although a distribution debate cannot harm. There will always be different value judgments for this purpose. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But this realization that the protection of the Austrian economy, as well as we can, does something for employment with the budgetary possibilities that we thank God, should not be excluded from boredom. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] That's why we do what we do. For the future: Investing Out of the Crisis! You know these approaches. And because economic packages are constantly demanded: You should, however, not overlook the fact that much has already been slipped up in the truest sense of the word, in billions of heights. Yes, it's already right to question and ask how successful it is and how to navigate it. It has already been suggested – I think it is great – that in all the protection of the existing, as I mentioned earlier, we are also trying not only to preserve, but also to modernise, because this will bring about the stability of modern jobs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] This has to do with digitization, with ecologisation and there and there again again with regionalization; and precisely in these three steps we want to do this: ecologize, digitize, regionalize. [[Intervocations by Mr Belakovich and Mr Wurm.]] This leads to regional value added, which in turn not only ensures existing jobs, but will also contribute to the creation of new ones. That's how we see this and that's what we're going to do. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] In this area there are 100 000 jobs and more inside, we know that from all studies. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, the structure of unemployment: Of course, that won't be easy. I have heard with joy that new thinking and approach are also being given to long-term unemployment. This is certainly not an easy task – certainly not – but the problem-consciousness and the ability to solve are complete, and so things belong together. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] We have opportunities again, this year. The next few years will certainly be coming back years for the Austrian economy and for jobs. In this sense: Sleeve on, continue – let's do that, I don't want to repeat it at all! – and hack something! [[Abg. Worm: These are all stands!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e2742	Klubobmann Leichtfried is reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e2763	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kocher – I don't see you right now, ah, I see you now – I also welcome you from our side in the House! [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Put on glasses!]] What's the situation? – In 2020, unemployment has risen to a record level that we in Austria have never experienced before in this Second Republic. The forecasts – I think we all agree – do not look good, but they look very bad. If there has now been praise for the former Minister of Labour, I cannot agree with this praise, ladies and gentlemen, because to watch and to do nothing against unemployment is clearly too little in this situation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Why do I say that? – We have tried to present proposals here, we have tried to participate, we have tried to turn things to the better, but everything has been rejected by you – everything has been rejected! [[Abg. Loacker: A lot of people...!]] increase of the AMS funds: rejected; increasing unemployment benefit: rejected; Commitment to regional value added: rejected. Instead, ladies and gentlemen: Show policy. I'll tell you one thing: If you want to combat this unemployment, if you really want to do something – and, Mr Kocher, that is your central task for the future! – then it doesn’t need show policy, but finally substance and measures for the people who get up early every day, have to work hard for their money, or for those who have become unemployed. This is policy to be made in the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Kocher, I have to tell you that what you have said so far is disappointing. Against the hackler scheme, against a higher unemployment rate, against the four-day, against inheritance taxes, on the other hand, but for higher retirement age, for the Sunday opening, for the reduction of corporate taxes – Mr. Kocher, that is not possible. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] If we represent this attitude, nothing will be done against unemployment, nothing will be done about the situation of the people who are now unemployed. Can you imagine a person who loses half of his salary and has these income losses over months or who is in short-time work and thereby loses a lot of money? – These are the people who are now concerned, and the ÖVP Green Government has not taken care of them until now. I'm afraid if you'll implement what you've announced so far, then it won't be better, Mr. Kocher. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One more point: to change the distribution of resorts to note this too. I'm not very confident that what you're doing makes sense either. A women's minister who has so far done little to nothing for women now receives an even larger place and is also responsible for family and youth. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is an assumption...!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I'll tell you one thing: It cannot be that these important topics are always being pushed back and forth, moved from one ministry to another, and then nothing happens again in the end. This is not the right policy on this issue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Kocher, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a situation where this is all about. We are in a situation that is incredibly difficult for people in the country. I was very surprised by what you said in this debate on unemployment benefits: You have the reason to refuse to raise unemployment benefit for the people who are now in this situation, so that it will be difficult for the Federal Government to take back an increase in unemployment benefit. I'll tell you: That's the wrong attitude. The right attitude would be not to worry about what is difficult for the Federal Government, but to take care of what is difficult for the people of Austria, because this has to be applied primarily in politics, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e2865	Mr Pfurtscheller spoke on a point of order to make an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e2889	Mr President. Mr Leichfried said against better knowledge that Raab, Minister of Women, did not do anything for women last year. [[Abg. Lightenness: Not against better knowledge...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] I'm actually correcting: The fact that the female budget has been increased by more than 40 percent over the last two years, i.e. in the last two budget decisions, under Mrs. Raab, shows how much Mrs. Raab has done for women in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e2936	Mr Klubobmann Wöginger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e2968	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Appreciated members of the Federal Government, especially Mr Martin Kocher, Minister of Labour! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin with a great thank you to Christine Aschbacher on the part of the People's Party, because it has mastered a very challenging year in the fields of labour and the labour market, family and youth, with a very close cooperation with all the political groups here in Parliament. Mr Leichfried, you should perhaps have sent out colleagues to Muchitsch, who would at least know what work and social policy is. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lightness: He's still coming!]] Christine Aschbacher was responsible for the fact that the short-term work of over 1.3 million people enabled the jobs to be maintained and higher incomes were secured at weitems than that would have been possible through unemployment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] We have spent one-time payments to all unemployed people twice. Throughout 2020, we have maintained the level of unemployment benefit for emergency workers. We have completed the AMS staff by 500 employees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] We've done our homework. I would therefore like to extend a very great thank you to Christine Aschbacher on the part of the People's Party: She has made a top job as a Minister of Labour, Family and Youth. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Now for government reform: As always, German Chancellor Sebastian Kurz has acted quickly and professionally and has also given the chapter Work the highest priority for 2021, with the occupation with Martin Kocher, an internationally recognized expert, a trained national host, born 1973 in Salzburg, in Altenmarkt im Pongau, who was the last director of the IHS and president of the Fiscal Council. [[==References====External links== Kickl]] So Martin Kocher is an absolute specialist in this field. Work and employment will also play a very central role in this year. The top priority, of course, is the fight against the health crisis and the pandemic on the one hand, but also the economic and labour market crisis, which we have had in parallel for several months now. I would like to thank most of the parties here in the House, namely those who – including cross-party – have expressed respect and recognition for the occupation of Martin Kocher, because he is a recognised, an absolute expert. The FPÖ doesn't know exactly. Kickl didn't do it; Herwig Mahr, his clubman in Upper Austria, has already done it. I don't know if you've already been calling each other, it wouldn't hurt. [[Abg. Kickl: Frust-Gust!]] At any rate, as the Upper Austrian, I hold it with the Upper Austrian FPÖ, which stands with us in a government agreement in Upper Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] This seems to be another party that understands how to assume responsibility and not just beats around it wildly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I have mentioned that this will remain a challenging year, in particular with regard to the chapters on employment and employment. We currently have about 530 000 unemployed, we have over 400 000 people who are still in short-term employment. I would like to highlight the model of short work very positively once again. This has ensured a high level of income for many workers, and many entrepreneurs have been able to keep employees in employment, so to speak, in a situation where, when the economy has been boosted or started, they have not had to look for employees on the labour market. It is and remains a success model that seeks to achieve the same internationally. At present, as has been said, we have over 400 000 people in short-time work. As a result of the crisis, we have over 100,000 people in addition to unemployment, which is why I congratulate the first press statements, Mr Labour Minister, on bringing people back into employment. The year 2021 will also be the year back to growth and employment. If we can adopt the vaccination strategy and, moreover, today a test strategy for the coming weeks and months, then there will also be this light at the end of the tunnel at the middle of 2021; and this is the point, ladies and gentlemen: that we are coming back to growth and employment, that we are rearing this Austria after a crisis due to a pandemic, as we have not had for 100 years, after an economic crisis such as we did not have since World War II. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] This is feasible if we do everything we can to deal with this pandemic together through vaccination and through a test strategy! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Mr Labour Minister, we have also adopted important measures here in the House, which support this. There are 700 million euros of work grants, and 400 million euros are set for this year. The keywords will be re-training and qualification: Retraining and qualification so that we can get people back into jobs so that we can boost employment. And it has been a few months – at present, I think it is premature, because we have to deal with the crisis first, but after the crisis we can and should, of course, continue the discussion about it – a degressive model also in the discussion of unemployment benefit. We have no longer agreed to this in the government programme – there have been discussions about it – but I think it is useful to discuss whether we can also make a reorganisation. But now the crisis is the top priority. I am glad and grateful that the workplace of work was filled so quickly with an absolutely recognized expert. – Dear Minister of Labour, not only as a clubman, but also as social spokesperson of the People's Party, I ask for a good cooperation which we will be sure of. There are always these rounds: Mr Muchitsch is also inviting social spokespersons – so to speak – to debate the political groups responsible for the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. I think we could do that in time. I don't know how you see it, but it would certainly make sense. I would also like to congratulate Susanne Raab on extending her family and youth department. We have also done a lot about the Family Hard-Equation Fund and all these things to support the families. That's a hundred percent in good hands with her. - Good for it! Mr. Labour Minister, good luck, good luck! The expertise you bring will bring us out of this crisis in the field of employment and employment. We're ready to do that. Good cooperation!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3079	Mr Klubobmann Kickl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3100	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! But above all: Dear Mr. Neominister Kocher! Yeah, it's true: In the last few days, you have been given a whole bunch of advance locust berries from various political areas, and I would like to congratulate you on that. However, the truth has to be said that these advance ladyberries and the recognition you have received relate to the field of your scientific activity. This has to do with your scientific past, which extends over many years, and of course there is in it – well, what is that supposed to be? – a kind of anti-Aschbacher-Reflex, which is also a rebound from the negative events that have occurred in the last days around this plagiarism discussion. On the other hand, as a politician, Mr Neominister, as a politician, you will only have to prove your performance. I'm going to deal with that now – and, dear Frust-Gust, you see, it's not that hard to look at things differently. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] By the way, thank you very much for this election recommendation, which you have previously given to the Liberal Party of Upper Austria, because a good result in Upper Austria can only go at the expense of the People's Party, and that is good for this country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, this will be You may be surprised – I wish you were successful in managing the tasks on the Austrian labour market. It is really a Hercules task, and I honestly tell you that the signs under which you take up this task are not particularly promising. We have in Austria a German chancellor – he is here today – who is infected with the LD Merkel-20/21 virus – LD is an accelerator for Lockdown. This is a particularly dangerous type of infection – especially dangerous and persistent! – and the symptoms of this infection are that the infected person develops a real sense of confidence towards businesses, workplaces and schools, while at the same time developing a real incarceration towards his own population. The persistent infection with this political virus is also the reason that leads me to believe that the valley ride on the Austrian labour market, where we now have almost a million people in short work or unemployment, will continue. This is the overall problem of this federal government's policy, which is not pleased that more than 99 percent of the people in Austria are neither infected nor ill in connection with Covid, but that – and that is still too much! – it is less than 1 percent of the people to whom this applies. But their policies act as if it were just reversed as if we had 99 percent sick and infected people and only 1 percent of people who are healthy. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, you have now joined this team, and some say yes that is good because you are trusted that you will have a bigger and perhaps more profound influence on the Chancellor than your predecessor had. I mean, in a way, this is almost an insult, if you do so, because the steps of Mrs Aschbacher, whom you enter, are all too big. But Mrs. Aschbacher must also be brought to justice: After all, she was driven by a great scientific passion. Yes, she has really tried to contribute her part to academic progress in Europe, and she has been able to do something about her time in the largest labour market crisis in the Second Republic to write and defend a scientific degree at the renowned University of Bratislava. I can only tell you that this scientific work is a real highlight of Austrian science history. This will deal with generations of Germanists. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The worst thing is: If this had not been revealed by a plagiarist, Mrs. Aschbacher would still be sitting here today, and then we would hear the same anointing words of expertise and expertise that we have now heard from the Federal Chancellor's mouth towards her successor in her direction. Mr Neominister, thank you So your appointment is not the Chancellor – who could have taken you right away if he were so convinced of your abilities – but you owe your appointment to the discovery work of a plagiarist. That's the whole truth! And I can only hope that, in the future, the influence you will have in the government is also one that will be effective towards greater honesty. To be honest, that would be what would also be appropriate in the political debate. [[Mr Haubner and Mr Wöginger.]] And when it comes to fairness, I am back with you, Federal Chancellor. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] I brought you an example that concerns you personally. Mr. Bundeskanzler, you said in the “Kronen Zeitung” on 3.1 this year, when this entire vaccination scandal, the chaos of your vaccination strategy, has been in contact with the leading pharmaceutical companies, first of all with Biontech, for weeks and do everything to organize additional vaccines for the Austrian population. Now we have only a small problem, because we had an event here yesterday, where we asked questions to the Minister for Health, including these, and the Minister for Health said in his reply to the question 16 on which it is precisely about: In the EU-wide procurement process, it is a clear violation when a Member State comes directly to manufacturers. [[Federal Chancellor Kurz: That's not true!]] Austria does not plan national singles. ‘Austria has not approached Biontech/Pfizer at any time’. Who's lying now? You or the Minister of Health? – One of them has to lie – so much to the seriousness of your covid policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would almost ask the President-in-Office of the Council to extend his prayer for Sobotka to include a confessor, who would need it slowly in this Federal Government. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Well, the Minister is an economic and financial expert, but he becomes Minister of Labour. Granted, one would also have needed a new Minister of Economic Affairs, Kaufhaus Österreich, and one could have needed a new finance minister, no matter what, in the case of the loss of memory that we all remember. However, the Minister of Labour is the Minister of Labour, and in this context his expertise must also be assessed. [[Abg. Wöginger: Thank God we have a new Minister of the Interior!]] That is to say, one will have to ask the question of what or what he uses this expertise for. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wöger.]] That's the point. Expertise is not a self-interest, but a means of purpose. – That’s the one question that asks itself. The second question is: How far will he come in a federal government, where the Federal Chancellor of the Supreme Expert is for everything at all? So to speak, the infallibility dogma has passed directly from the Vatican to the Austrian Federal Chancellery. And he congratulates his own ministers, the ministers of industry, such as the Minister of Education, on their progress. He's already sent off today. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] The only minister of expertise in the government in the past would have nothing to do with you. [[towards Bundeskanzler Kurz]] Mr Minister, what role are you going to take? – Ministers actually only play the role of Trabanten, who orbit the central planet Sebastian Kurz. What are the possibilities? You have, then, in a federal government, of which you have to say that their corona policy is essentially characterized by a kind of herding union against home mind and logic? - Well, you can be very excited. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Minister is an expert in economics. Economics, that is the discipline that draws up the scientific basis for economic policy. And now it's that way – that's like health policy, August, good watch! – there is not only a health policy, but also a broad spectrum of economic policies ranging from real-life socialism to turbocapitalism to predatory capitalism. [[towards Abg. Woeinger]] – All of this is economic policy. And now is the question where the new Minister of Labour, the new Minister of Labour, is located in this spectrum. That is the crucial point. What economic policy demands do you derive from your expertise? – Look, I have made the effort to take a look at the archive, and honestly, what I have found there is quite sobering, not to say disturbing, and I no longer understand so many lohudleys from the last few days. I assume at least that the Federal Chancellor has therefore brought the Minister into his team so that he will implement the same thing he has said as a scientist into politics. Now let's look at what that was: In October 2018, you said you wanted to raise the retirement age, not the actual one, but the legal one – the legal one! – Well, the heroes of everyday life will rejoice, the cashiers in the supermarkets, the people who now hold the position in the businesses when they are not allowed to retire with 65. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Yes, I have another opinion and the Freedom Party with me. They said in February 2019 that Austria needs more professionals from outside the European Union. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] In other words, the European labour market is still not enough for you with all the free movement of workers – the hundreds, millions of unemployed, the total freedom of movement – and you still need to open up, and this means that you are hottering and dumping wages. They said in the press hour that easier access for asylum seekers to the labour market should be found. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] - Yes, yes, the Neos clap. – That would make me even stupid, because then we are with the neoliberals and with turbocapitalism! The labour market is therefore to be opened to asylum seekers. Well, that's where I'm telling you as a former Minister of the Interior. [[Abg. Wögerer: Thank God once!]] This is the biggest dissatisfaction you can make, because you are triggering an attraction effect and because you are logically doing what the ÖVP has excluded in the government programme, namely to humanize asylum and immigration. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] So I don't know what ÖVP wants now. [[Abg. Wöginger: That's what we see!]] Also in connection with Corona, you have given of yourself in a magazine with the sounding name “Fonds Professional”. This is now again to clap your time, because it is a magazine for those who have so much money that they can speculate on the stock market. [[towards NEOS]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] - That's right. [[Abg. Loacker:... that you read this too!]] So you gave an interview to the magazine “Fonds Professional” and said something about the corona measures. It says: “The government’s 38 billion euro corona package was good, but you must not miss the exit from the aid,” and literally: “If I impose measures such as short-time or fixed-cost subsidies too long, I am at risk of removing necessary structural changes.” [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Given the situation in which we are located, where thousands of companies in Austria stand the water up to the Kinnlade and beyond, where hundreds of thousands of people are in short work, this is not an optimistic message, but it is a dangerous threat that you have separated there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cannon]] And as the structural change you've been talking about looks like, we all know: The small farms go into the pleite, are eaten up by the large ones, and the number of unemployed continues to rise. This is the structural reform – now you are allowed to clap from NEOS again, that is what you want – and with this you are also driving forward the division of society in this area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion it only fits in the picture, if you also announce in the “Time in Picture 2”: Now, please, where we have the unemployed, of course, is not the time to increase unemployment benefit! You might be able to do that sometime! - I don't think you're gonna have to do it anyway. Yes, please, when, if not now, do I have to prevent the unemployed who have fallen into this situation by your policy? What you have given of yourself is more of the social cold of inhumanity and empathy that we cannot need, of which we already have enough in the form of the Federal Chancellor. We need the opposite! We need empathy and a social heart in this country. What you're doing is the opposite! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] All in all, then, is what you have so far given of yourself – and therefore NEOS always complains – a neoliberal revelation. And now I don't know about Kogler anymore. The Kogler said a few days ago: The time of neoliberalism is over. – That was O-Ton Kogler; and today he makes himself and whips a neoliberal. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] A contradiction more in this Federal Government, however, is already at risk in the case of the contradictions you produce on the ongoing band. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the first hours of your duties, you have already committed a cardinal mistake, a fall of sin, I would like to say that you have been subject to the dictatorship of so-called infection numbers. You can't do a reasonable labour market policy, you can't get employment, let alone you can create jobs if at the same time you continue this sense-free lockdown policy in the same step with Berlin – Lockdown, and then the next lockdown comes, and then a lockdown comes back, and after the lockdown comes the next lockdown. Now I'm back to expertise, scientific expertise. There are also very different rulings from other universities. I'm sure the name John Ioannidis will tell you something. That's a real expert, that's a global health coryphae. He has looked at how the lockdowns have been in recent months and has come to the conclusion: That does not mean anything to health policy at all. Labour market policy does not do anything, economic policy does nothing, and health policy does nothing. This is probably the reason why you continue it permanently, and this is annoying me, because your political immune defense is only attacking if you hear facts that are actually pleasant. You should be happy if there is any evidence that we do not need a lockdown! Instead, criminalise and evaporate They are the bearers of these messages. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's say one last word. You personally, Minister: You're marathon runners, and that makes you like me, we have something in common. The government – and this has been so again today – is also happy to strengthen this image of the marathon runner to somehow visualize its corona management. I just have one fear: When Kogler talks about the marathon, he doesn't mean the sporting event, but, I think, he refers to the historical event that this sporting event has practically given the basis. Now I have to look at Mr. Blümel, a Plutarch expert. We know how the story went: The good man fell dead after, as it were, reaching the goal. And if this is your economic policy and your labour market policy, then good night, Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Minister, I can only wish that you do not repeat this cardinal error and that you do something that none of your other ministerial colleagues dare to do, namely to resist the Chancellor of the Federal Republic. This is necessary in order to make a reasonable policy in this country, and that is what we will measure you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3369	The word is Klubobfrau Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3390	Mr President. Minister and Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters! Dear Martin Kocher, welcome here in Parliament! Yes, we have a government transformation in an extremely challenging time. We have very high unemployment and the perspective that the pandemic cannot be calmed and handled so quickly. In this situation, of course, it is extremely necessary to put in place the right measures for labour market policy and to see that we bring as many people back into employment as possible and invest ourselves in new working worlds as best we can from this crisis. The change in the working world must be well accompanied. Minister Kocher, dear Martin! It unites us with the start of our political commitment, I have also started in student policy. That was your only political station so far. After that, our career paths, our CVs have been a little separated. Admission – now again – to politics is certainly very exciting, but if you come from science, then the political events are often not quite understandable. We've just seen it: The fact that the Freedom Party does not act easily with science is known. We constantly have the subject here in Parliament, especially in the discussion with the corona pandemic, but otherwise it is rather so that the Freedom Party cannot join science so well. [[Abg. Kickl: You're a Koryphae!]] There are a few points I think are extremely important and good, and I'm also looking forward to bringing them in. Science is more ambivalent than politics. Science doesn't say that's the absolute truth and that's the absolute non-truth. Science formulated in theses, formulated in possibilities, formulated in different models. This is a contribution that cannot harm us in politics: more ambivalence, more discourse, more weighting and less black-and-white. I'm glad to see you get this level of science in here. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I also find it a bit strange and, honestly, I never really know myself at the FPÖ: A party that has always been very closely associated with the Industrial Union now suddenly develops a problem with alleged neoliberalism – the FPÖ, that party that is the only gold bar in any huts on the mountain, the FPÖ, which is known for having most often taken hold of its members in the pockets of the Republic. [[Abg. Kickl: (the hands beating together) Jessas! Jessas!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Kickl.]] I think it is good for more people to work to ensure that those people who are the worst in our Republic who are affected by unemployment affected by poverty are well supported. [[Abg. Kickl: That's worse today than it is!]] The challenges we face are, of course, the mass unemployment that we now have, and the potentially resulting risk of poverty, the danger of taking away a very high level of socket unemployment from this crisis. I am very glad that you, Minister Kocher, said in interviews that have not yet been quoted that public employment programmes are, for example, an important point to get out of this problem. But there are also other challenges that we have to face: the question of digitization, the question of green jobs, the question of Just Transition in principle: In the labour market, how do we get away from jobs where very environmentally harmful goods are produced, from jobs that are good for the climate?, but also from topics such as women in the labour market, the low employment rate of women we still have in Austria, the extremely high number of women working part-time, or also the question of how people with disabilities can be better integrated into the labour market. All of this will concern us, and I am looking forward to good cooperation on all these issues. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is clear that we have quite different approaches in economic policy areas, but I am pleased that with you, dear Martin, someone is now part of this government, with which one can very well discuss, at scientific level, what measures one can and should take. [[Abg. Kickl: That's where he'll be happy!]] The FPÖ has mentioned it in its request, I was also at the IHS, together with you, before I returned to politics, and your dealings in general, your access to scientific evidence, your ability to discuss and also joy of discussion I highly appreciate. Accordingly, I think we can make this cooperation a good one. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3495	Mr Wimmer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3517	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Mr Wöinger! You have scattered a lot of roses today to the divorced Federal Minister. I can't join this at all, because the only thing that keeps me in mind, ladies and gentlemen, is this picture, if you remember. [[Keeping a photo to the height on which to see how Federal Minister Aschbacher reaches a baby in his mother's hands a hundred euro issue]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Loacker.]] In May, with a cucumber singer, Ms. Aschbacher gave a small boy with 100 euros in hand. This is the only thing that has obviously worked, otherwise nothing has happened at all, Mr Wöginger. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As far as the special care period is concerned, everyone knew that this is a pipe recorder that does not work without a legal claim. How long has it taken for this legal claim to go over stage? Just like the exemption for pregnant women: How long did it take? – After a hundred times of demand, after a hundred times of pressure exercise, something has only gone! Since July there should be a work foundation, you have answered it: To date, this foundation has not been established, there is no work foundation! The only thing that really worked was the short work, which was addressed today, but because the Ashbachers did not have their fingers inside. [[Abg. Wöginger: Rainer, that's pathetic what you're saying!]] [[Abg. Haubner: That's quiet!]] She was just on the verge! That is what the social partners have done, ladies and gentlemen, trade union and the Chamber of Commerce. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: You don't do such a thing, it's a matter of character!]] [[Abg. Ottenschlager: That's what trade unionists are!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr. Federal Minister, you have taken on a major task. You take the challenge, you said. The construction sites that your predecessor left behind are large, and you said in a “ZIB 2” interview – I quote – “I don’t think it’s time to present an unemployment money reform concept”. – Mr Federal Minister, we do not need a reform concept! We need money, we need more money for the unemployed, for the people who have lost their jobs, ladies and gentlemen! You cannot afford to maintain 55 percent of your income, and that is why we will always maintain this 70 percent demand, because that is simply necessary, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] As far as youth unemployment is concerned: That's really a shame. 45 000 young people are unemployed, 27 percent more than last year, and there should be no such thing at all. If a young person becomes unemployed, then immediately training measures must be taken, immediately. There was a huge error in abolishing the training guarantee, which was very massively operated by the ÖVP side and was actually implemented. I call on you, Mr Federal Minister, to take measures to ensure that young people find work again, faster than before. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] As regards older workers: We have a huge problem because the older colleagues in the labour market have no chance, we know. There are 135 000 long-term unemployed, 35 000 more than last year. The 20 000 action was a rescue anchor for many, and the abolition of this measure was a cardinal mistake. They have taken hope in the people concerned. That was the only rescue anchor they had, and this action was very much accepted. Home Office has been addressed already today. At least you, Minister of State, mentioned this in some way. Eleven months the pandemic is now taking place, and there is no solution yet. And now I hear that this is obviously at the wheel. Mr Federal Minister for Finance, then we have to put this under a hat as soon as possible, because we can't wait longer! The people who work in the home office – and these are huge numbers – need this security. One last sentence, namely: We need this work foundation, but not only from the name, but we really need a work foundation that deserves that name. But this is something quite different from what is going on right now. This too is a great challenge to which we simply say: Do that, people need it! Mr. Federal Minister, you have all your hands to do. Make it better than your predecessor, who left only speech bubbles! We will measure you by your actions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3659	Klubobfrau Meinl-Reisinger has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3680	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Mr. Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister of Foreign Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen! Love all those who watch! Maybe wonders. You're – usually it's common for us to make a club round on such occasions, by size. We have failed to make an arrangement for this meeting, and that I am speaking only now is because we have signed in as a provocative speaker – it is always spoken alternately per and counter. Why did I sign up as a pro-redner? – Because I welcome the fact that we finally have Martin Kocher, I would like to say – at last! – have a well-known economic expert in the government. I would like to congratulate you very much and really wish you all the best and good as well as good luck. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] It has already been addressed by Klubobmann Kickl a little: We appreciate your expertise. We also appreciate your previous statements on economic policy, fiscal policy, and we appreciate your basic liberal attitude. We believe that this government is doing well to finally re-represent this basic liberal attitude in the government, but, above all, to finally put it on expertise and substance. They certainly have expertise far beyond the labour market, in economics, especially in the field of behavioural economics, where we consider it so important that it is used more effectively, but of course also in fiscal matters. I would also like to thank Minister Aschbacher for what is perhaps unusual. No, we don't judge their work in the government with top marks. I believe, however, that it is absolutely essential to thank everyone and everyone who is willing to take responsibility for our country. Thank you very much, therefore, from our side! [[It was in favour of NEOS and ÖVP, as well as MEPs of the Greens.]] We hope for a change of course. This appointment of Martin Kocher as Minister of Labour can only be the beginning, the beginning of a perhaps larger government transformation, with which at last greater emphasis is placed on substance and expertise rather than on party loyalty, commitment from youth parties, headlines, keywords and show policy. We are in the worst crisis of the Second Republic, and these challenges require expertise and substance and honesty, honesty in dealing with these challenges. We have a huge economic crisis, we have record unemployment, we expect dramatic corporate pleas and, of course, massive increases in public debt. In view of the next generation, we cannot wipe it off the table. “Cost what it wants” will have to end sometime and will have to be renamed in: doing what is necessary so that we can get back to the top. This requires serious, serious, content planning and real substance. It is true that we measure the government by its actions and not by what you say about them. Not the narrator is enough, but the one that counts – this should be even more true in a crisis. That is why I appeal to you, Federal Chancellor, that this change of government should only be the beginning of a much, much bigger one, because renewal and expertise are urgently needed by this government, not only in the field of work, but in my opinion also in the economic field. Austria is economically poor. Yes, there is a world economic crisis. But what you have failed to say in your remarks is that Austria, compared to other countries, especially other European countries, has gone through the crisis economically worse, more people are unemployed, more companies are in difficulty or are getting into trouble and our prosperity has also broken down. And yes, the question is whether ideas like Kaufhaus Austria will really lead us out of this crisis. We think: rather not. However, one could also look at the social area in which the issues of work and social affairs are of course very closely interconnected. One cannot look at this separately, and we will have to discuss how in the future we will be able to shape a basic guarantee for people who have lost their jobs and who have no chance of getting back to their feet quickly. For example, a reorganisation in the form, work and social situation would have a pleasant side effect – I said this week – that the Minister of Health would really be released for the mammoth task of combating the health crisis and especially vaccination, because nothing else has he to do now but ensure that Austria is vaccinated quickly. What it doesn't need now is hesitation and sluggish. I say that quite consciously, because we had the debate on vaccination yesterday, and I forgive you, Minister Anschober, but I have also experienced you with reluctance and gentleness and not with the courage to the necessary clarity that is needed now. We need clarity and concrete answers, which is now the further plan of the Federal Government with regard to the number of infections, with regard to the question of lockdown and, in particular, with regard to the question of virus mutation. Yesterday we also experienced in the Minister for Education unclearness and obsceneness. At 12 o’clock he goes to the “Mitagsjournal” and says, on 25th. At 1 p.m., he says in the “ZIB”: No, no, that's only true if there's no further lockdown. [[Abg. Kickl:... the superexpert...!]] – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is the opposite of clarity, which is the opposite of planning, and I think that is the opposite of honesty. Because if we read every day about, what do I know, 17 ski teachers there – of course, they are always the foreign ski instructors the evil ones – a few cases there, then we have to ask ourselves the question: Is this an honest argument? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] I remember this a little bit last year when we heard about a hotel in Innsbruck and a lawyer in Vienna and actually every observer was aware that the virus is in the country. The same is true now: Isn't the mutation in the country a long time ago, and what does that mean? You have to answer these questions honestly. The citizens in Austria have deserved honesty and clarity about how you estimate the virus, how you estimate the mutation and what the slow vaccination that means much too slow vaccination in relation to this mutation now. This would be leadership: finally, honest and transparent, comprehensively informing about what is happening! But what happens instead? You know, we are in principle in favour of this issue, because we have been demanding a test strategy for months and even then, when you came with your snap idea of mass testing, we have said: For example, it would be necessary for this to be useful to carry out such tests in certain professional groups or in certain regions. Even if there is a first step here today, I say, on a sensible test strategy, I wonder if this is not a self-employment at the moment – just as it was perfectly clear that the idea of free-testing is a self-employment at the time when we know that now is a more contagious virus variant in the house. You can be grateful that the opposition has saved you this abdominal area – you have already delivered many in the fight against this pandemic. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] People want to know when the schools open up, the students want to know how it continues, the teachers want to know how it continues, the directors want to know how it goes. Yes, and also the gastronomy companies and hotel companies want to know if they can expect to be opened in February. Do you have the honesty to say what's going on today? I say something to you: Nobody believes it any more. They are preparing themselves because they have to be prepared, but actually – as you realize when you hit the newspapers – no one thinks that on the 25th of the lockdown ends, testing back or forth. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Have the courage to say that this will not work! That would create planning, that would be honesty, and that would also be the leadership that it now needs so urgently. What else needs to be done? – I am actually expecting to talk about it today and now in this discussion. Of course, as has been mentioned more often, the use of FFP2 masks would be extended – this is a useful way – it finally needs – Mr. Loacker has been calling for this for months – the digitization of contact tracking, especially with regard to the question of how we are pursuing the virus mutation B.1.1.7. But it also needs, and I also say this, the creation of the possibility that each and every individual can make a self-powerful, self-responsible contribution to the fight against pandemic, by being offered down-to-low several times a week or even sent home, so that we all know not only our own status, but each individual can thus become a real covid fighter. This would be an approach which, in the end, together with the people, is also gearing towards the fight against pandemics, rather than always on compulsions and punishments. Now I've spent a lot of time with what is now to be done. But I would like to take the opportunity, Mr Kocher, to say what 2021 our expectation of this government is of you in general and in particular, because one thing is clear: The crisis will be with us for a few months, but after that everything will have to be done that goes on, and in my opinion not towards a comeback – I think it's completely wrong; it can't be a comeback that's focused on what we've done before, because we know and now we know even more about what didn't work. This has led us close to a state failure, a system failure, with a bureaucracy that gnaws and binds us, so that we can't even set off a failed vaccination strategy. – No, we need a real restart, and that requires courage to reform in many areas of this state. Turning on little girls has already been able to do that, this government has already been able to do so, but it has not been enough now. If we want to bring back to the top economic policy when it comes to the recovery of full employment, if we want to bring education policy and also with regard to public debt and the question of – hopefully also – tax relief for the people of Austria back to the top, then it needs courage for real reforms, then it needs substance, then it needs quality, then it needs less press conferences and more serious and solid crisis management. I said this on Tuesday, and I say it again today – Mr Kickl has also mentioned Mr Kocher's comments on the question of what needs to be done urgently in our country –: If you are willing to turn on little girls instead of dare bold, big reforms, then our hand is always stretched out. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3755	The new Federal Minister for Labour Martin Kocher has now been notified of his speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3776	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The question of whether I would like to become a Minister of Labour came for me both surprisingly and very short-term. However, I would first of all like to express my express thanks to my predecessor Christine Aschbacher for her work in the field of work, family and youth. It has led a ministry in a difficult phase for the labour market in Austria, it has done well through this difficult phase with all these difficulties and left me a very well ordered house, and I am very grateful for that. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The offer came very surprising to me. Nevertheless, I was very happy to accept it, I am pleased to be able to contribute and actively participate in the expertise I have gained in science – and I am of course clear that it is different from the political environment. The good thing about work is from my point of view that all the parties here in Parliament, including all people, have the same goal: We want to get as fast and as close as possible to full employment. There are, of course, differences in the instruments, in the measures that are preferred, and I am someone - who knows me - who very much likes to discuss these measures, the instruments, the right measures, also controversially discussed, most of course, not on the basis of individual sentences torn from the context, but on the basis of more substance. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Citing now is already problematic!]] I am also happy to be convinced in such discussions – of course I have an opinion, but I am not someone who, when the evidence hits in a different direction, gets stuck to this opinion. I am aware of the responsibility of this office. Consciousness of responsibility from my point of view – that was also the reason to do that – is now in demand. We are in a deep economic crisis, in a deep labour market crisis, the deepest since World War II, triggered by a pandemic. Unfortunately, the crisis has not yet survived. I am aware of how difficult the situation is for the individual people on the labour market, for those who are looking for work, but also for those who are in employment and who may feel that their jobs are at risk, resulting in fear. All of this is something that is very close to me, and I will make every effort to improve the situation quickly. With currently around 530 000 unemployed and more than 410 000 people in short-term employment, this crisis poses great challenges for the labour market. We must therefore, and this is my firm conviction, to get a quick grip on the infectious situation – with the right measures, with vaccination – so that further opening steps are possible and thus a relaxation on the labour market can take place again. Therefore, the appeal to all, including those who use television or live stream to comply with the rules of infection. This will be very crucial in the coming weeks: to make an understanding that the rules are difficult and hard, that we are all tired, but that the recovery on the labour market, in the economy, is only possible if we do so in the next few weeks, in order to get out of the crisis as quickly as possible. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] It is also important to take advantage of the opportunity to be vaccinated. In the longer term, the vaccination is the best way to control the spread of the pandemic and return to a life we feel is more normal than the life we currently have. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] As far as the labour market and the location are concerned, it is now about reducing the effects of unemployment and reducing the effects of the pandemic. We are currently doing this, among other things – that is known – with the short work specifically for this crisis. More than a million jobs were thus preserved in Austria so far and a short-term massive under-exploitation was bridged. The short work is still relevant, especially during lockdown times. As we continue with the short work after the expiry of phase three in March, of course depends on the number of infections and the associated opening steps. In any case, we need to discuss the future of short-term work very quickly. In the 2021 budget, we have provided for a very large amount of work and employment. This shows that a high priority will be given to this area by the Federal Government. We have allocated 30 billion euros to the labour market and employment sector, and everyone knows that budgets are figures-based policies. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] In addition to short-time work, there are several other measures which are a response to the current situation. With the job offensive – the labour market foundation has been addressed – we invest intensively in training preparation and qualification. Qualification will be crucial if, after the crisis, employment is to be restored as quickly as possible and to offer better opportunities for all. For this there is only this year, in 2021, 428 million euros. This is important because we need long-term solutions to react to the shortage of skilled workers after the crisis. Secondly, I am concerned about the future of work. This is about the design of Home Office, and that has a high priority for me. Home Office has become particularly important during the pandemic, but I also expect that after the pandemic, the demand for solutions for work in the home office will be great. I have therefore set myself the goal of presenting a solution in agreement with the social partners as soon as possible. I know we've been waiting for this solution for a long time – it's supposed to come in the next few weeks. Thirdly, Since summer, the Youth Employment Task Force has focused on training, employment and placement of young people. During the crisis, the AMS is also able to communicate to young people: Last year the number of persons aged 20 to 24 was 83 000. For young people and young adults, the situation on the labour market is particularly difficult, which is clear to me, but we are still quite good at comparison: We have the third lowest youth unemployment in Europe. It's too high, it's clear to me, but we've managed to sort out the consequences of the crisis. Fourth: The start-up bonus provides appropriate incentives for unemployed people to get them out of unemployment and to move them to full-time employment. Of course, in the current crisis period, we will, in principle, need further measures – offers for specific target groups and always adaptations to current circumstances – but we must move step by step. The first step is now to deal with the crisis, as long as there are still restrictions on business activities and closures. There are instruments that need to be further developed. We will also prepare relatively quickly the measures that are still necessary until, hopefully, there will be a large opening again in the course of the spring and the labour market will recover in part. But after that there will be still difficulties. We will then need a growth strategy, a fast strategy to create employment and reduce unemployment. Another point, however, which is already being addressed in my house, is the design of the future of work. Work in five or ten years will look different from work five or ten years ago, and the crisis has accelerated this structural change. All these measures are intended to bring us closer to the goal of dealing with the crisis. In the labour market, it will take several years for this to be fully possible. [[Abg. Kickl:... several years!]] The better we succeed, the faster we can find a growth path on the Austrian labour market, and the better we are prepared for the future of work. I am pleased to be able to work with you all, ladies and gentlemen, for Austria, for workers and for businesses in that country. Let's get to work!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3860	Mrs Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3881	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Mr. Labour Minister, I have to tell you honestly: Her speech now was more than disappointing. You have a great curriculum vitae, an enormous expertise that we do not doubt, but rather appreciate, but I would like to say: Karl Marx also had a business expertise, and this expertise is also recognized. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kickl.]] The question is just what you're doing about it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Minister for Labour, what You just told us here, you really have to think a little bit about what you've been thinking about. First of all, you have just told us that this crisis in the labour market will last a few years. Minister of Finance Blümel said a few weeks ago, in 2021, at the latest in 2022, we overcame the hole. I think you need a little bit of agreement within this government. Well, you're not an ÖVP member yet, but that's going to be – you're going to be included in the tricks, so you won't have any more promises. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, you already know: We have massive social problems in our country, and they are getting even bigger. We currently have over a million people who are de facto unemployed, almost 500 000 in short-time work and over half a million people who are currently unemployed. Every week of the lockdown brings us another 15,000 people who become unemployed – every other week. When I listened to you now, I learned that you expect to be locked up sometime, perhaps in the course of the spring. You don't need to be a great prophet: Check the homepage of the Dot, a local on the Vienna Mariahilfer Straße! You can book there for from 14.4. It is known that Mr Ho has good links in the highest government circles and always knows very well when he locks up and locks up his locals. It wouldn't be the first time he'd tell us how long a lockdown will take, Minister of State. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] While unemployment increases every week of the lockdown, economic growth drops by about 0.1 percent every week of the lockdown. If I look at the forecast given by the OECD to Austria – which is expected to grow by 1.4 percent in the year now – I note that it has already correctly estimated this federal government. In any case, we have 1.3 to 1.4 percent growth, if – no matter what the Federal Government does – de facto a zero growth takes place. The OECD appreciates this for Austria. This is not a good witness, so we are internationally among the worst, ladies and gentlemen, and that of course has its reason. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know, this federal government is pushing everything – and that is what you have done again, Minister of Labour, on any number of infections. The infection figures are not due to this economic disaster in which we are stuck. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] The measures of this federal government are to blame for this senseless blockage – that is to blame for this economic disaster in which Austria is located. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Austria is one of the final lights in Europe, it should not be forgotten either. We have one of the highest inflation rates in all of Europe – practically all other EU countries are better off than we are. This is, of course, a great thing. Earning this federal government! The chancellor's gone anyway, he doesn't want to hear it at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] He has made his statement here today, has taken the applause from the ÖVP, and now he is gone again. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: He's right!]] He probably picks up the next inspirations of Mrs. Merkel. This is the truth: If Mrs. Merkel calls, the chancellor must jump, my Ladies and gentlemen, and that is exactly how politics looks in Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] Mr Minister, I am coming back to you now, and if I look at what you have given to quotations – some of them have already liked today – I can't spare you one of them: We are now in a crisis, and in this crisis, ladies and gentlemen, there is a professional group that has certainly come up with: These were the nurses. But this is also a professional group that is not particularly appreciated and not particularly well deserved. Your only comment to the caregivers was: “The value of care is clearly low because it requires hardly any specific skills.” Mr Minister, I would You ask: Rethink this statement! I think the nursing staff have a good training, are subject to enormous stress, and the activity requires specific skills. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It would be good, Mr Minister, if you were to devote yourself a little more respectful to the caregivers, because they are really doing enormous things. Mr President, my watch!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3983	You have a total of 14 minutes; 5 minutes are over.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3998	But there's nothing that shines, and there's still the 5 minutes. [[Abg. Kickl: There's nothing lighting!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] – You know, the enlightenment would need the rulers over there. [[towards ÖVP]] You need an enlightenment once, you have to say, if you look at what you're doing in this country, how you're driving this land against the wall, how you've driven it down, and until 14. April you want to leave. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Schools stay closed! The Minister tells us how poor young people are on the labour market, and what is the response of the ÖVP? - Schools stay closed. Well, please, then it will become increasingly difficult for us to get youth unemployment on track. That's the truth. You need the light of enlightenment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now that I have been given a few seconds of speaking time, I am tabling a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] This would be necessary in order to support the local companies again, because the only ones who benefit from your policy are the large corporations, the online shipping houses. These are the ones who write the plus points, and there is already celebrated every day. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[10:42]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4224	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. You had a remaining speaking time of about 13 minutes, so it wasn't a hurry. The next speaker is Mrs Graf. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4269	Mr President. Estimated vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank, in particular Minister Kocher! Dear viewer! High house! Allow me two comments before I start my actual speech! Mr Wimmer, on your statement to Federal Minister Christine Aschbacher, I must say one thing to you: That is a question of character; such behavior is silent, disrespectful, and truly pitiful! – I can only say this. It's a naughtiness like you've been acting here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] To the FPÖ, to Mr Kickl: Your statements and your statements, which you make here, show me one thing very clearly: You have no idea of the economy or of work, nor of the sport, as I could now see, because where is your team colleague Hofer? [[Abg. Michael Hammer: It's not possible that both are there at the same time!]] I would really offer you a team building seminar; I would really recommend that you as a sportsman visit something like this once. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Well, you're worried!]] To Mrs Belakovich I can only say one thing: Volume has never been an argument; perhaps it should You'll be a little quieter in the future, then maybe you'll hear better. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riser]] [[Abg. Kickl: You don't even have the volume!]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] But now to my speech: The year 2021 has begun extremely turbulent and very moving. However, it also starts with a great sense of hope, for hope has now been obtained through the supplied vaccine. With tests and vaccinations, there are now two very clear priorities that help us to defeat the pandemic. However, with all the changes and turbulences of the first days of this year, the challenge remains unchanged: This is the management of the corona crisis, which, in addition to health, is a major challenge, particularly in the field of the economy and the labour market. [[New calls and calls between representatives of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] We are dedicated to these important challenges with all our strength. Unfortunately, the figures of the labour market that we have heard today are not so pleasing. In one we are all, I think, in agreement: Unemployment must not be solidified! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] It is therefore also important to focus, in addition to the vaccination of the population, on boosting the economy. We really need economic growth, because growth has a positive impact on the labour market. To secure jobs and boost the economy, in addition to protecting health, these are the main objectives for this year. The labour market requirements are highly complex, because we have unemployment on the one hand and a shortage of skilled workers on the other. From the e-mails I get from the citizens who have unfortunately become unemployed, but from the descriptions of personal fates, one thing is clear: They want to get back to the labour market. They want a job, they need support to get back into employment, because there is no one who likes to be unemployed at home. However, there are different solutions to address this problem. Unfortunately, an increase in unemployment benefit to 70 percent, as the SPÖ repeatedly calls for, does not really help us. People want and need perspectives through work in order not to have to insist on unemployment. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] That is why we are in favour of shaping the labour market rather than managing unemployment. Now, with our new Minister of Labour, Dr. Martin Kocher has a proven expert who brings international experience and many years of scientific expertise and expertise. The Minister has already made it clear that, in addition to the full commitment to the pool of measures to support the economy and the labour market, it is already preparing for the time after the pandemic. [[Abg. Belakovich: When will it be?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] Of course, I also support his ideas that together we use the time to give people perspectives, such as by forcing education and training or by new modern work models, because, as already mentioned, the economy urgently needs skilled workers and also people who are fit in the digital field. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] Every crisis has to be seen as an opportunity. The year is still young today, we are clearly making the offensive on the labour market our project! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Worm.]] That is why I would also like to welcome our Minister of Labour and wish him a lot of success. I have already mentioned his expertise, but also that he is a sportsman, still a endurance sportsman, and therefore also has the necessary endurance. As Salzburger – which I am very pleased as a Tennengauer – he brings with him a high quality of Salzburg, which connects him very much with our head of state. It makes clear the issues and also has a proposal for a solution. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] So I am delighted to receive the order, so I have voted very thoughtfully in the proceedings concerning the outcome of our Minister Christine Aschbacher, who thanked me very much for her commitment and commitment. Let's really be in an honest one: If politically committed people become the defenseless prey of self-proclaimed hunters and become pre-conceptions as a program, then this is absolutely unacceptable. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] That's why I have a request: Let us see that we are back to basic values such as appreciation, performance and respect that have made Austria great, and that we are putting the common before the end of the separation! [[Abg. Worm: I'm with you!]] Austria, its entrepreneurs and its employees have always proved what is in them, and we have always written success story together. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Worm.]] That's why: Let us now set impulses so that we can return to our excellent performance from before Corona with the economic strength and the imagination of our businesses and with the diligence of our employees! Mr Minister, I am looking forward to working with you and I can give you my support.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4456	Before I give the floor to Mr Muchich, I should like to make a clarification on Mr Angerer before I leave the Presidency, on what he has said about business and about the President's messages: According to § 49 para. 1 and 2 of the Rules of Procedure are entitled not only at the beginning, but also during the sitting and at the end to make notifications. According to § 59, applications for business treatment do not need to be filed in writing, they do not need any support and, unless the National Council does so in accordance with paragraph 1. 3 decision to hold a debate, put to the vote by the President immediately. If no request is made in the statement on business treatment, the President shall be entitled to allow this contribution to business treatment only at the end of the meeting. That is why I asked Mr Kickl yesterday if he would like to make a request – then I would not have allowed this word for business treatment until the end of the meeting. To clarify: This can be read in the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, § 49 para. 1, 2 and § 59. Next speaker: Mr Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4505	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Minister of Labour Martin Kocher! I must say that the Federal Government has failed not only in the fight against the pandemic, but also in the fight against unemployment. Since March 2020: 10 months no strategy, no plan, no light at the end of the tunnel, even in terms of labour market problems. In the last ten months, the Federal Government has not only threatened and destroyed the health of people, but also the economy and thus employment in Austria. There were always only public stagings and empty promises. ==References====External links== In front of the camera on October, he will now take the issue and explain the fight against unemployment as the chief issue. That was just a staging again. Three and a half months later: 533 000 people are unemployed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Ten months this government has put aside proposals from the opposition in the fight against unemployment. From the speaker's desk the commonplace again and again To conjure and preach, but then finally not to take account of parliamentary work – this is not the case together, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Labour Minister, don't make the same mistake as this federal government that in the Husch-pusch-Procedure you'll be putting laws on the table for which you expect the opposition parties' consent within a few hours! That's not how it is. Mr Labour Minister, you do not make the same mistakes as your predecessor Christine Aschbacher, whom I know from personal discussions that in some areas she wanted to do more for people affected than she was finally allowed to do, because she was rebuffed by the ÖVP. Minister of Labour, you have publicly declared that you are party-independent. You are now a Federal Minister in a government, where please do not make the same mistakes as everyone else before, by not accepting good proposals from the opposition parties, but by deciding on them. Take advantage of the opportunity in the fight against this record unemployment to involve all political parties, to evaluate, discuss their proposals and to implement the best ideas as well! Take advantage of the political experience of the representatives of all parties, but also of those experts working at the AMS who make a great daily job to help the affected people – but it is difficult for 533 000 people looking for work and 55 000 open jobs. Minister of Labour, I can go to 28. December: The Federal Chancellor was in a waiting room with the Minister of Health, there were also those five people who were first vaccinated. The Federal Chancellor asked these five people how they were doing. – Minister of Labour, go to these people seeking work and ask them – the single mother, the family father, the long-term unemployed – how they have no chance of a job, and how they manage to pay their bills with 34 euros of unemployment money per day. Ask her! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister of Labour, people expect you to represent the concerns of all these people affected by unemployment. There are 533,000 people who expect you to take rapid action and a light at the end of the tunnel by getting back to a job. I therefore invite you, as chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, to: Let us try to solve these problems with you again at the top! I'm allowed to give the party you nominated a chance today. On behalf of the SPÖ, I would like to make the following request on these issues: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, Minister for Labour: I really wish I had a Minister of Labour who put solutions before populism and party politics. I would also like to see a Minister of Labour, who puts humanity ahead of profile and division of our society. Take advantage of the opportunity to cooperate in the interests of all affected people who have become unemployed through this virus! - Good. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[10:56]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4709	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. I would ask you to add the names to the signatures so that you can check if they really are five. Mr Koza is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4737	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Minister of Labour! Ladies and gentlemen! More than 532 000 people are currently unemployed, we have already heard that. Especially dramatic is the rise in long-term unemployment, which in our view will probably be one of the biggest challenges in the coming months and years. With 700 million euros, we have now launched a job offensive package, which focuses in particular on qualification, on further training, on vocational re-orientation and also on work foundations; it is intended to be invested in care, in digital professions and in green jobs, which is actually forward-looking. In combination with the investment activities we are projecting in the field of climate change, in the field of care reform, this is also very useful because it will produce appropriate employment effects. [[Abg. Worm:... Solution!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, it should be feared that this alone will not be enough to support, in particular, the group of people affected by long-term unemployment and to reduce long-term unemployment. [[Abg. Worm: Who?]] The current figures are already very impressive, because we currently have 170 000 long-term unemployed. It is not likely to go without appropriate employment programmes – employment programmes in the private sector, in municipal services, but also in non-profit companies – I am quite clearly saying this – also from a green position –, best combined with educational and qualification possibilities. Although we know that such programmes are not undisputed, they are in fact already available. For example, we have this programme for 1 000 administrative staff in the field of compulsory schools. We have the placement of people into unemployment into contact tracking. We believe that these programmes should be extended, these programmes should be supported, and more money is needed for these programmes. I was therefore very pleased to have read today in the “standard” as well as in a “Kurier” interview with you in September that you are quite open and open to such employment programmes. That is very encouraging. I'd say, Let's do it as soon as possible. But what you have to say quite clearly: The high level of unemployment has long since been due not only to the corona crisis, but it is also the result of the 2008 financial crisis and subsequent years. It was simply after the economic crisis, the financial crisis in 2008 never again reached the state of unemployment from before the crisis. I remember that by 2016 the number of long-term unemployed has increased to 160,000 people affected, almost to the same level as today, and also in the following boom years – we remember: 2019 was another year of growth – it hasn't really fallen significantly. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] This unemployment base has increased not least because of this in the financial and economic crisis of 2008 and the following years, because, unfortunately, savings measures and budget consolidation have begun far too early. We recall the decision taken here by SPÖ and ÖVP on the Fiscal Pact, which, in the end, has promoted these consolidation measures across Europe at the same time. This has led to a massive increase in unemployment, to lost years and to this high unemployment base that has existed since then. That simply means what we need to learn from this time is: Don't start fiscal consolidation too early! Yes, don't start too early to save, but just invest out of the crisis, as Vice-chanc Kogler emphasizes over and over again! I hope that these lessons will not only be drawn in Austria, but also in the whole of Europe. Mr. Minister! In your speech you also meant that you were very happy to work with the social partners and other stakeholders in labour market policy. We welcome this announcement. We consider cooperation with the social partners, the trade unions, the workers' chambers, the employers' associations to be extremely important and targeted. The social partners' ability to resolve has not least been demonstrated in this crisis. I am thinking both of corona short work and of this test package now, of the general collective agreement on testing. We can only strengthen you in this cooperation because we will need the social partners' ability not only to overcome the crisis, but also when it comes to making the structural change in the working world, in the economy also socially fair, a just transition so that no one remains. I would also like to invite you to contact other stakeholders. I am thinking, for example, of work plus, the Association of Social Enterprises in Austria, of the poverty conference, which also raises the vote for those who are often not heard enough on the labour market, whose problems are too few to be seen. I would urge you to take action in the sense of your openness, as we know it. Last but not least: We must do everything we can to prevent the health crisis from becoming a permanent, profound social crisis. This has not been as bad for us last year, as the economic research institutes also confirm us. In particular, emergency aid has proved to be an effective and important automatic stabilizer. However, we must not forget – even if we have managed to cope with these crisis-related social developments in 2020: People with long-term unemployment are particularly vulnerable. The risk of poverty is increasing to 46 percent. The fight against long-term unemployment is thus also a fight for better social security, for improving opportunities and prospects and for creating jobs. With pressure on the unemployed, we do not create a single job, with less social security just as little. At the end, Minister-in-Office of the Council: In your “ZiB-2” interview, you mentioned full employment as a goal. Full employment is a word that is no longer used particularly often today. We think this is very bad, because achieving this goal is absolutely worthwhile. Mr Minister, we will do our best to support you in achieving this worthwhile goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4797	Next speaker: Mr Michael Schnedlitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4822	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! This debate today is necessary because a Turkish member of the government has become unbearable to this Republic. I know that many TV monitors at home will now spontaneously think of the Minister of Defence or the Minister of the Interior. Yes, they too have become unbearable, but resigned, ladies and gentlemen, is the Minister for Labour. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Whenever a member of the government has to resign, this is not a anniversary for the government, and in this case, of course, it is not a anniversary for the Turkish ÖVP. From our point of view, Mrs. Aschbacher has not become unbearable, because she has been condemned or plagiarised or written down, because that is eh Usus on the team in brief. By plagiarizing, he also became chancellors: He has written down the free party programme. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's not the problem. However, the problem of cheap copies is that one is not able to put theory into practice after that. This is exactly what this practice is about. But Austria would now urgently need, not copies and theories, but personalities who are addressing and acting. This is the foot of the horse in the whole story, ladies and gentlemen: that it has now flown up that the team is not about getting started and acting, but only about PR, show policy and press conferences. But it needed in a crisis, ladies and gentlemen, personalities working for the Austrians and not for their personal career, personal advantage and personal advancement. That's exactly what happens in the team short and with the ministers of the team. Summary in one sentence: The team In short, it is mainly about the advantage of the team in short. While Ms. Aschbacher sold herself “positively” as Minister of Labour at countless press conferences and also with the help of the Chancellor – under quotation marks – the truth is that she wrote in the background of her dissertation. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the reason why she has become unbearable to this country: that as Minister of Labour in the largest labour crisis in the Second Republic, in the middle of a lockdown, in 2020 she has nothing better to do than work on a dissertation and on others out of self-interest, instead of doing her job. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] This is the great humiliation: Hundreds of thousands of unemployed people do not know how to get over the rounds, and what does the team make short? – It takes care of itself. Hundreds of thousands of Austrians in short work do not know how to get over the rounds, and what does the team do in short? – It takes care of itself. Hundreds of thousands of social and economic victims of your government policy no longer know, and what does the team make short? – It takes care of itself. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a humiliation of our people, which is no longer bearable, a humiliation of all the unemployed, of all the people in short work and of all the social and economic victims of this crisis. In front of the scenes you make press conferences, behind the scenes take care of yourself. Ladies and gentlemen! Much will not be left by the Minister of Labour except for the photo with the baby, for example. That's the problem if politicians don't work. There is a similar problem with the Greens. There will only be a photo remembered by the club woman – since the Stinkefinger photograph, there the baby photo. You will not help the country with this show policy. Ladies and gentlemen! Who is responsible for this Schlendrian on Team Kurz? – I have to tell you: No, it's not Herbert Kickl, it's Sebastian Kurz. What does the recipe look like to get out of this Schlendrian, get out of this show policy and free this country from this hostage? – The recipe is very simple. Ms. Aschbacher proposed: She resigned. Many of you, first chancellors in short, should make it equal to her and follow her.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4897	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4918	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Dear Minister Kocher! I read a nice quote: “It is a redemption for the government – whether by chance or not – that Ms. Aschbacher is no longer part of the team. In any case, it is a great chance that we will now get a specialist at the head of the Ministry of Labour. I am happy personally, once in a committee to sit in which the honourable Member does not have to explain to the Minister what a partial insurance is and what is a lump-of-labour-fallacy, because he knows it much better than the Members. I'm glad. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We would also have been pleased if the Federal Chancellor had taken the opportunity to implement this train to the professionals in the context of greater government conversion, because of course one of our own health ministers also deserved to be a specialist at the top. The labour market figures have been mentioned. We have more than half a million unemployed and we have more than 400 000 people in short-term employment. Long-term unemployment is rising especially in the young. The young are those who have to pay the most for this crisis in every respect, in terms of education, the labour market and indebtedness. That's why we need solutions that bring us out of this mess quickly. We also need a way out of the short work. Short work is good as a bridge from one bank to the other, short work can never be a bridge into the ocean. For some companies, there is a danger that the Republic has built a bridge into the ocean from which they can no longer swim. The longer the short work takes, the higher the proportion of jobs that were structurally problematic before the corona crisis. In this way, state-owned companies make the economically healthy competition and ruin these jobs as well. We should not be unnecessarily going into that. You probably do, ladies and gentlemen, as I do: Every week we receive calls from citizens who alert us to the fact that there and there short work fraud is systematically carried out, because a car mechanic has sent the employees in short work, but they do not work short, but work full-gas, and only the system is exploited. – Even there it is important to keep on putting on the reins. In all, short-time work has become an important instrument, but perhaps too cheap in the long run. Another problem in the labour market is the shortage of skilled workers. 61 percent of the companies which reported a shortage of skilled workers have a loss of sales because they have a shortage of skilled workers. This, of course, leads to a decline in innovation, a decline in product development. Therefore, the shortage of skilled workers and the subject of qualification addressed by the Minister is a major field of work on which you still have to move. The Minister of Labour is, of course, a king without a country in the Republic of Austria. You have two sections for the labour market – you have the Presidential Division as the third, but that holds for the yarn –, substantially the AMS and the labour inspectorate. In the AMS one has to beat around with a little bit preoccupied union logic; it is not easy to get in there dynamic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] We also see in this government that it does not have expertise easy. Ask your colleague Fässmann once in a private conversation – you can have a lot of expertise and also a lot of enforcement will, however, be slowed down by the Kurz party and can't design it. I wish you could get over this short regime and help your expertise to break through. Of course, we will always remember what you said in your previous function: The cost of labour in Austria is too high, we have to do something about the additional labour costs. My colleague Sepp Schellhorn would say that the employees cost too much and deserve too little. We need a pension reform which this government it has not been planned. Even there you have already clearly positioned yourself in earlier times. I am glad to read from you that a degressive unemployment benefit would be charged. That's a lot of good ideas. And I'm glad that Herbert Kicklauch can read financial magazines and read your interviews there. I wish you all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4997	Next speaker: Mrs Petra Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5021	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank, especially Mr Kocher! You take office in a very challenging time. The Covid crisis is still firmly in control of the country. As the SPÖ's family spokesperson, I have been pointing out for months that families and children are particularly affected by the measures to combat the crisis. The psychological and financial burdens are hardly feasible for many families. The despair grows a bit more every day. These families do not feel supported. They have no hope from the government's permanent press conferences. They feel insecure through various, constantly new information from the media and additional rumors from the social media. Is there another class of presence? If so, when and how? How exactly is he designed? And above all: How do I manage and create this as a family? Do you know how difficult it is for a minor child that it is not allowed to visit his grandparents with both parents? This only happened with the current rule when they meet on a ski slopes. Someone should explain this to his child. It's not understandable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] This policy of announcement and these ambiguities mutter people. Parents are insecure, and this is especially felt by the children. Safety and clarity are just what we all need in a crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Where are the government's clear statements? Where are the rules that are understandable? After ten months of crisis with all their kidnappings and sustainable consequences, there is still no recognizable plan. Just such non-comprehensible regulations simply don't understand anyone anymore, that makes people tired and that makes people angry. Where does financial support remain for families who are particularly hard on money? The corona family hard balance should bring rapid and unbureaucratic help. But there are many families that are still waiting for the payout. In fact, they are still lucky because they can hope that money will still come into their account. Other families are not entitled to claim, for example, separate living parents cannot even apply. It is also unfair that the Family Hard Fund pays only support for three months. The fact that this continuing crisis cannot do enough is self-evident. Many workers have already landed for more than three months in short-term work or in long-term unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen! I repeat it: Families are particularly affected by the Covid crisis, and those families who depend on support from an aid fund have no reserves and no other options. The reform of the Family Hard Fund is becoming increasingly necessary. Mrs Raab! They will take over the agendas of the family and youth. There are many urgent tasks in the area of family. We expect your full commitment to the families in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5081	Next speaker: Mrs Claudia Plasolm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5106	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Advisor to today's National Council! A year ago, the Federal Government was praised from ÖVP and Greens, with a government programme that is full of ideas and forward-looking measures for Austria. It is a program that is currently carrying a young manuscript. About ten months ago, the Corona pandemic also broke into Austria and reached our country. Since then, not only the everyday lives of each individual, but also the political debate has changed very, very much. Nevertheless, our Federal Government has already been able to implement many of the measures and ideas contained in the government programme last year, in the first year of this Federal Government's term of office. In particular in the field of youth, I would like to add a few milestones here: The increase of the limit of commitment for all students employed, the digitization of schools, which was also promoted by Corona in particular, the upgrading of the teaching and the master's title or the introduction of the apprenticeship bonus. Not least by the apprenticeship bonus, many, many teaching places and thus also the training of young people in this country, especially during this economic crisis, were secured. Young people need employment and a perspective during the crisis, especially for post-crisis times. In this sense, I wish our new Minister of Labour Martin Kocher all the best for his new task and challenge. At the same time, I am looking forward to working with you and of course also to working with our new Minister for Youth Susanne Raab. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The pandemic and its consequences will take us a long time in the next few months. In my opinion, however, the biggest task is to re-establish society, our country. This is the task of all of us, including the opposition, because every individual sitting here in the House has been chosen to work for Austria and take responsibility in our country, especially if it is not easy. This can be expected by the people of Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These days we often look into the United States, into a country that is completely split, into a country where democracy seems to be less and less valuable to people, into a country where polarization even leads to violent outpourings. We Austrians must under no circumstances let such a cone come between us. I would particularly like to address a few words to the FPÖ colleagues, especially the Kickl Wings in the FPÖ – you are even very divided in parties on these issues: I come from Upper Austria – like Mr Klubobmann Wöginger, he has already mentioned it in his speech – and the FPÖ there has already been sent to the media, which is kept within the FPÖ from the negligent course Kickls. The only one who spreads fear and panic, that's you, Mr. Kickl. You insecure, you split, and you deliberately spread untruths. This is totally irresponsible in times like this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] They misuse the fears and concerns of the population, they permanently damage the trust in science, and thus you are uncertain so that you deliberately drive a rope between the Austrian population. [[Abg. Kickl: So young and so uncritical!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Who are you at all?]] [[Abg. Kickl:... Happy Nature!]] Mr Kickl, I think you are smarter than you are here in the House. You know very well that a quick opening would overburden the hospitals, and you know very well that the mass tests are necessary to control the corona pandemic. [[Abg. Kickl: Happy Nature is on it!]] You also know that the vaccination is our only way out of this pandemic, but you claim from party tactics something quite different. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Play from party tactics [[Abg. Belakovich: There is no party tactics with us!]] Consciously with the fears and concerns of the population, you deny scientific facts due to Youtube videos and alternative information that you gain from them, and you trust in the pandemic fight of well-known coronal persons such as Michael Wendler, Attila Hildmann or Xavier Naidoo. [[Abg. Kickl: Not at all!]] [[==References====External links== Kickl]] That is absolutely not scientific what you are doing, that is just uncertain and divides the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] Rather, you should rely on the population, on those people who experience the situation in hospitals every day, on the people who have developed vaccines in record time. [[Abg. Kickl: Listen and not this message control...!]] What you're doing here is absolutely dangerous and negligent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Yeah, yeah, just keep going!]] In this country, no insurers and columners are required, responsible persons are required. [[Further call of the Abg. Kickl.]] You take absolutely no responsibility by calling on the boycott of mass tests and the boycott of vaccinations. [[Abg. Kickl: There's no one to call! People are hot enough!]] You take absolutely no responsibility if you propose vice versa to lock everything up as if there were no corona, as if there were no British mutation, as if there were no endangered risk groups. [[Abg. Kickl: Ah, the British mutation!]] Just as we can only fight this pandemic together if each individual makes his contribution, I also invite you, as democratically elected representatives, here in Parliament, to cooperate constructively and to put proposals and solutions on the table for change. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Yes, the FPÖ was also chosen to work for Austria, for the Austrians, and above all to take on responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5341	Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner's next speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5362	Madam President. Dear Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! Minister of Labour! I would just like to give you one thing regarding your “time in picture 2” interview, even if the colleagues of the Greens are just in the conversation and that is quite a bit disturbing – it doesn’t matter, they can also watch it in the TV library –: It has never proved to be a mistake to take action against inhumane living conditions. It has never proved to be a mistake to be for humanity. That's why it's very important – that's what I want to emphasize –: Let us no longer see how things are going in the camps in Bosnia and Greece. Let's do it! We would be alliance partners. Let's finally get the people out of there, everything else is unbearable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] The youth resort now travels together with the family resort to Minister Raab, who is now responsible for women, equality, culture, integration and then also for family and youth. This is a broad field, and I'm excited how much time is actually left for the youth evenings, because even in the Federal Government, the day has only 24 hours. I honestly see this massive resort agglomeration as worrying. We actually needed something completely different: an independent, including youth policy with a place which is accordingly equipped – not a carpentry, not a collectionsurium, not a sub-area somewhere, but a self-confident contact point for children and young people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We always hear: Children and young people are our future. Children and young people are the longest faced with the policy being made. – These are quotations that we constantly hear in political everyday life. We must, however, include these quotations, which are perceived and which give children's and youth policy here in the High House and also in the Federal Government a corresponding priority. I think that's important. Young people want to participate. We have now seen this again in the democratic monitor, which has already been jointly raised for the third time by Sora and Parliament. It comes out quite clearly, young people are interested in politics, they want to participate. We must listen to this action: Yes to an independent, self-confident, clear Ministry of Children and Youth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On Twitter you can already read: the minister for everything the ÖVP is somehow sausaged anyway. I think there are a number of important points that must be accepted as Minister for Children and Youth. Youth unemployment has already been a subject whose massive fight must be priority number one. We know nothing is as striking as a gap at the very beginning of the CV. It's going through like a red thread. It needs a sharp, concrete package of measures – no task force, which is announced full-bodied, including doorstep, where nothing comes out at the end, which is just a show project. We really need specifics! We have jointly decided on the Youth Strategy – a good point – but it must be met with life; a timetable and concrete measures are also necessary. I would just like to give you once again the concluding observations from Geneva, Mrs Minister, please look at this. We've always heard, it's being evaluated, it's being looked and so on. Pressing the tube, we shake the seapox off the boat, which slows it down. We really have to lay a tooth now. The consequences of lockdown, school closures and co are also the subject, as well as the psychological consequences of the corona crisis that affect children and young people – the Medical University of Innsbruck once again presented it in a study. Please do not wait any longer, we are making a modern, strong youth policy! Let's finally start and give her the priority she really deserves.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5432	Next speaker: Mr Josef Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5461	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear members of the government! Dear Martin Kocher! So one thing you have to leave this government, the Federal Chancellor: They must be congratulated, because I too am really happy about the experts that this government now owns. He's the only one who understands something about the subject. You can now say that there are many talented government members. Some people have to ask: Where's the talent? That is also the question we are very busy with. Nevertheless, Gerald Loacker said quite correctly: Minister Kocher, you are a king without a country. It is to be hoped that you are not a new PR-devil of this government, but that you can also get through with your expertise and with your evidence-based policy. That's the great wish. That's why it can probably get harder for you – as the Federal Chancellor said: If you become a minister, you'll get tougher. You will only be affected if you are unable to enforce yourself and if you do not attack certain things due to party policy tactics. The point is – and I am completely opposed to Klubobmann Kickl – that we must bring employees into employment, unemployed people into employment. This is particularly important and the most important issue of economic policy. You are responsible for a cross-sectional matter, and I very much hope you will be able to enforce yourself as a member of the government. The most important point is to dramatically relieve labour costs. It only brings us something if we get more employees in employment. In the tense economic situation, it is not possible for many companies to offer more employment. It must be our first goal that employees earn more and cost less, much less. That would be quite a different thing, and unless it were only temporary to increase unemployment benefit, because this does not bring us any more employment. It's mainly about putting employees into employment. You have also said quite right, or no, the vice chancellor has said that it is important to create new jobs through ecologisation. Yes, Minister of Labour Kocher, perhaps you can enforce the fact that the trade regulations are finally reformed. This would also allow us to create new jobs, to offer new companies opportunities to develop. It would be very, very important not to stick to this rigid system. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Mr Kocher, we must not only remember setting up clear rules for home office, but it is also about creating new working worlds through flexibilization. We can create new jobs through working time flexibility, as you have said correctly. I am so glad that you have just become ministers, because NEOS policy has always been roughly equivalent to your expertise, with your evidence-based opinions. It is also about a state reform, a dramatic red tape reduction and a slimming of the state apparatus, without the citizens having a disadvantage of it. We could now talk about federalism and fundingism. Federalism is not Your field of expertise, but I am still counting on your expertise in this government, because the principle of unanimity applies in the government. That would be access. I don't even take up education and pension reform. You are certainly aware of what we need to do based on an economic understanding in the field of education, that there are fundamental reforms. Let me put two more points. You say you are an expert on labour market policy, but it is also about integration. I would have liked to hear a statement, a statement on Moria and the reception of refugees in this dramatic situation, I must say quite honestly. This would also be an important statement for integration. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor took his place before Christmas, on 22 February. December in the evening, just briefly explained – thank God be positive – but he does not seem to be able to enforce himself. I stand here as an entrepreneur. What we need now is courage and planning security. I need to say from you, Minister of Health, the courage to say whether companies can or cannot lock up, especially in the tourist sector, but also in the areas directly or indirectly affected by it. It is not just about the companies, it is mainly about the employees. But it is also about all those people who might want to book a holiday in the mountains – and of course have to announce this to their employer – so as not to swim around in the fog soup in Vienna during the semester holiday season. That can't be it, I need, as all citizens need courage, planning security and a clear announcement. It won't be so hard for you to finally tell us. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] So it takes the courage to say: Yes, you're shutting up, or: No, you can't lock up! – This is not at all difficult. That's why we asked you in December. To this day, you have not brought up the backbone to say: That's how it is, or: That's not how it is! And then I wish you all, not only the Members here, but also you in front of the television screens, a vaccination as soon as possible. As we know, this will still be a bit of a deal, because you still have not completely out of the strategy, but I wish you all a vaccination as soon as possible, because only it can bring a boost, a resurgence of the Austrian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5546	Next speaker: Mr Norbert Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5571	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! You will not be surprised if, as a family speaker, I would also like to say thank you, as a family speaker of my group, the exodus Minister of Family Aschbacher, thank you for her work for the Austrian families, for a good and trusting cooperation. I would also like to say thank you for her earnest and always hard work, for being there, where something may not have happened immediately, where criticism from the opposition has always tried to accept this criticism and to eliminate the mistakes as quickly as possible. Thank you from this place! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are very often talking about the dignity of this House, and I wonder how we feel about dignity among ourselves. I don't think it's really okay that it's unfair to follow this way today. That's not necessary. I do not want to evaluate Mrs Aschbacher's academic work here, nor can I. However, it is unreasonable, Mr Wimmer of Social Democracy, that you, as employee representatives, social partners in a devalued way that seeks to be the same, should be brought about by Minister Aschbacher. That's not all right. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Dear Federal Minister Kocher! You have, of course, acted as Minister of Labour, but since the decision to amend the Federal Ministry Act is now under way, you are now also responsible for family ministers and young people for a short period of time. I would definitely like to give you one thing, even if you will only be responsible for work in Bälde, namely that family policy of course also has a lot to do with labour market policy. It is very important to us – across all political groups – to promote the compatibility of family and profession. That is what I hope for a good cooperation. I am convinced that we can also take appropriate steps forward in this area. As a future minister for family and youth, however, our Minister Susanne Raab is scheduled, and honestly, Susanne, I am looking forward to the trustful and good cooperation now. Again, the question must be asked: How do we deal with each other? If you look at the press releases of the last few days from the individual political groups, which was given the best thing about Susanne Raab, you simply have to wonder. Above all, I wonder about the senders of these press releases. Where is the solidarity of women that we need if we are to move on in the women's sector? Where will women's solidarity remain if Susanne Raab is agreed on in press releases or if it is pityd that the family agents are in the same ministry as women's agendas? I still understand Mr Heinisch-Hosek, who goes to court with Mrs Raab. Fact is and remains: Minister Raab increased the budget in the women's resort by more than 40 percent. Unfortunately, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek did not succeed, and therefore the pain is obviously so great that you have to write such press releases. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] But also colleague Brandstötter of the NEOS has made a bold press release in which she writes rationally: “Family policy can also be women’s policy, but women’s policy is not family policy”. - Yes, just now. But it should also be clear to us that a differentiated approach is necessary here, but of course these issues also have to do with each other, that there is a cross-sectional matter here. If you say that is so terrible, then I do not know, Mrs Brandstötter, whether Mr Schellhorn should take him to Salzburg, because Mrs Klambauer in Salzburg has exactly this place and comes from the NEOS. Is she doing so bad? [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is supposed to be a day of joy, as it is a new minister, the new occupation of a ministry, and I would like to conclude by saying: Yes, I hope and I am looking forward to a good cooperation with the new members of the Federal Government. I know that together we will still do a lot of work and move a lot together for the Austrian families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5643	No one is reporting on this. That concludes this debate. I ask the clubs whether we can come to the votes at once. - Then I'll go like that. We shall proceed to the votes. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues on 'NEO-Liberal Theoretics as Minister for Labour: No thanks!" Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues on '350,000 new jobs - cost it what it wants?!” I call for a sign to be given to those who support this motion for a resolution. – This is the minority, rejected. [[11:41:55]] 2. Point Report by the Health Committee on the motion for a resolution 1196/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, colleagues on a federal law amending the General Social Security Act (626 d.b.) ==References====External links== Negotiations postponed in January 2021) 3rd. Point Report by the Health Committee on the proposal 1197/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the 1950 Epidemic Act and the Covid-19 Act (629, b.) ==References====External links== Negotiations postponed in January 2021) 4. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1124/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on a grant of purpose to the countries under the COVID-19 crisis (COVID-19) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Health on Amendment No 1162/A(E) by Mr Andreas Kollross, Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Replacement of mass testing costs (628 d.e.c.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5758	We shall now proceed to points 2 to 5 of the agenda, on which the debates will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mr Philip Kucherzu's speech. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5789	Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! It's a shame that tourism minister Köstinger is leaving the hall, because this is a topic that would have been very, very exciting for her. [[Abg. Belakovich: It's getting faster!]] – It is getting faster and faster, and probably even for good reason. We are now talking about the Austrian test strategy. We all know since the beginning of the Corona crisis: Testing, testing, testing! We all know the recommendation of the World Health Organization. The WHO, however, has: Testing, testing, testing!, not any herb-and-rive tests, but targeted tests meant. The positive thing is that after eleven months of crisis control – that is really bad enough – we are now to get a test strategy against Corona for the first time in January. On the one hand, it's very, very bad that this is only happening now; but it's about human life, so it's important that we get this test strategy. But what went so close to me personally – and we discussed this with each other; yesterday we read the figures –: In Austria, 3,000 people died in nursing homes in Corona because the protection of these seriously ill people in nursing homes did not work. I was so annoyed by the fact that in the summer, the entire German government was watching when we took test resources across Austria. There was a Mr. Mahrer and a Mrs. Köstinger, who, with a certain Mr. Kurz, took up a press conference and said: We are now presenting a test strategy for tourism. I'll tell you something about it: There was a publication in autumn. In retrospect, medical journals have said: What Köstinger has fabricated with Mahrer is a model example of how not to do it. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] I say this so emotionally because, on the one hand, the test resources for seriously ill people in the nursing homes have been missing and on the other hand, Mrs Köstinger and Mr Mahrer have made themselves important in this area in summer and Sebastian has said in short: This is an outstanding test strategy. – That is, we did not have the resources for seriously ill people, but for marketing for Mahrer and Köstinger the resources were available – pointless. We all need to learn from it and see that we do not make this mistake again. Now we need testing for professional groups. It's a crazy thing – please imagine! – that in January, people who bring seriously ill people to the hospital at the Red Cross, the Samaritan League or the Johannites in the Rescue Service, who are in the nursing homes, still do not receive comprehensive tests! Can you imagine that? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] January 2021 – and there are no regular tests for these people in the rescue service who are there for all of us! This is because the federal government has debated and said that this would be the task of the countries, so that it was not clear who should pay the whole thing. - Unimaginable! This is the central point: If we want to test, it must be targeted. This puss – all experts think it is a puss – which Sebastian Kurz has looked away from Slovakia, which unfortunately has the same bad figures as Austria, does not bring us any further. In Austria, we have to test the way offensively and aimfully, making sense: Protect professional groups whose protection is urgently necessary to test in sensitive areas. It is also important that this is done free of charge, that in the future a seller does not have to pay for a test in order for her to go to work at all. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] That must be free! That is what we have called for until the end, and it will come in the future. A second point is a very central requirement – and I have to say thank you at this point Pamela Rendi-Wagner – namely these living rooms tests, which we are now starting to apply in the school area. In the future, each one of us could easily test at home in our own living room, either cost-effectively or in this case it would even be free for people. This would really be a pioneer in Austria. This is a very, very sensible proposal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So I'm really asking: Let's see together that we end this test chaos in Austria now in January! I also say quite openly, because the FPÖ has repeatedly put pressure on this question and has said that it is all an insanity: Yes, there has been a chaos in Austria on the issue of testing, and it is a shame for a developed country like Austria that we need to talk about it in January 2021. The question is: What does it bring us when we all say: The government has been unable there and there is a test chaos!Unknown term type: "%s".? When it comes to human life and to this day the testing does not work and sensitive professional groups are not sufficiently tested, we cannot say social democrats: Etch, bäsch, wursch, the government has failed here and brings nothing further!, but we need to cooperate and see that we protect human lives. And this has been our access: finally, a reasonable test strategy for Austria, with which we will take the people along in the future, with the whole of the businesses taking place and being free. This has been our access: instead of herb-and-rive tests, centrally organized testing for target groups. Finally, in January 2021, this is our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5858	Next speaker: Mr Ralph Schallmeiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5883	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Last, but not least: Mr. Health Minister! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! We are dealing not only with the issue of testing but also with three major issues on the fight against pandemics that we are trying to deal with here. Point one: It is about the implementation costs for the e-infpass in the ordinations. This is about the fact that the federal government would like to create incentives with 1 300 euros per ordination to continue so that we can get faster when we connect the ordinations to the E-Imprasse software. This is obviously not as easy in a small country like Austria, in which more than 60 different software variants are still in use in the ordinations; this costs accordingly. It is true that we are taking some money into our hands, in total, in about 7 million euros. This should also ensure that everything is documented a little better in the future while vaccinationing and simply goes better over the stage. The second point is the objective grant. We have been accused of letting down the countries and municipalities, especially when it comes to surface screenings, but also when it comes to the question of vaccination in the future. To this end, we have today put in a draft or discussed it, where we, where the federal government takes responsibility, as it does, and take over the costs. To sum up, we are talking in the cost assessment of about 100 million euros, probably even more, while we do not want to leave the municipalities alone with the costs for surface screenings, which by the way have been excellently organized by the municipalities, which are now being perfectly organized again, and where it is also a matter of taking on any vaccination costs in the future. So the accusation from the past is finally being vacated with today's draft. Third topic – Mr Kucher has already mentioned it – is the question of the new test strategy. A lot has been reported about this in the last few days in public. On the one hand, we want to make sure that we want to anchor more in the professional groups, but on the other hand we ensure that these tests do not cost the population and that the companies that will offer such tests at the operational level are supported. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] It is also about where people meet, where people come together, to ensure more security in the future, by also joining such events, into the Gastro, in art and culture, with a corresponding test result, in order to ensure more security there. The whole thing is based on screenings, the cost of it is, as has already been said, taken over by the federal government. It is also clear that the test result will be valid for 48 hours, which is a risk assessment. It is also equally important – Mr Kucher has already mentioned it – that we have now also involved these living rooms tests or do-it-yourself tests. [[Abg. Worm:... be the test?]] All of this is now quite welcome to the members of the Social Democracy, in which I would also like to express my express thanks for the very constructive negotiations of the last few days. It is also a welcome to the people to simply say: Okay, we'll see that we'll allow for relaxation. Whether these will be possible is another question – given the current figures, given how we are at present threatening the so-called British mutation, as we have seen in Ireland. [[Abg. Worm: B.1.1.7!]] Ireland was until recently an absolute model student in the field of corona control, now the numbers go through the ceiling. In the meantime, we know what is happening in the UK. We can only get hold of the situation and we can only fight it accordingly if there is a common approach, if we stick together to the measures, if we limit contacts, if we revive this spirit, as we had it last spring, and together, in solidarity with each other, fight this virus. The opponent is the virus and not we in here in this high house. – That should be clear to all of us. In this sense, I would like to express my broad support. One more point, I almost forgot: I would like to make one more request, namely the amendment tabled by Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Philip Kucher, Mr Ralph Schallmeiner, colleagues and colleagues on the report of the Committee on Health on the proposal from Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, colleagues on a federal law amending the 1950 Epidemic Act and the Act on COVID-19 Measures (629 of the Supplements). The application should be distributed in the meantime. It is about the last adjustments that we made in long negotiations on mass testing that we can decide today. In this sense: Thank you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[11:54]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6206	The amendment was explained in your speech in the broad outlines, it is sufficiently supported. He is not yet distributed because we have just gotten him, but of course he will be distributed to all Members. Mr Gerhard Kaniak has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6230	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! As was the case with the President of the Committee on Health, A few minutes ago, I received the last version of the amendment concerning the legislative matter on today's agenda item 3, which Mr Schalmeiner has just orally introduced. If one considers how the history of this originally considered as the most open-minded amendment was, with the scandalous short-term review of New Year's Eve, when there were still tens of thousands of negative opinions, and the fourth or fifth amendment that has now been tabled in the last few days always in the short term before or during the meetings, then one can already see that, over the knee, a completely fundamental change in the law which concerns the fundamental and freedom rights of our citizens is to be passed. I'd like to do this a little bit: The Federal Government's idea of free-testing was that mass testing should result in a lockdown reduction for individual people, namely for those who participate in these mass tests and have a negative test result. Since this was not enforceable legally and in real political terms, the idea of re-testing now came. From my point of view – and I have already mentioned this yesterday – this is a perverse burden of proof, because now the whole population is suspected of being sick, and every single citizen must at one time prove that he is not ill in order to be able to share in social and social life again. In addition, it is not only that this burden of proof should be reversed, but that the whole should also be determined in the form of an empowerment law for the Minister of Health, for Mr Anschober, thereby directing the right to define large-scale parameters of this new regulation to be designed. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. Of course, this amendment will be adopted again without any review, without any legal review simply so today by the government groups. Sourry! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I should like to comment briefly on today's current amendment concerning self-testing: It is now determined that if someone buys the self-application test for checking for a Sars-Cov-2 infection and conducts this test at home, he must immediately and immediately go to the home quarantine at a positive test result, contact the authorities and then be tested within 48 hours. Faith Do you really think that this will increase people's willingness to test themselves and self-responsible? How do you even want to control whether someone at home had a positive test result or not? Is it not a very essential principle of legislation that a law must also be enforceable? – Apparently not for this federal government. But it fits with the whole thing to do with the actions of this Federal Government. It doesn't matter in the final effect either. I was also in the main committee yesterday and listened to what argument the Federal Government and the government groups had again extended the starting blocks by ten days. If even their own experts in the next forecast period do not see a critical situation in the Austrian health care system and the Federal Government nevertheless extends the lockdown, wants to keep the schools locked – and this, although it is not even justified in the case of epidemiologicals according to its own expert papers – then this is not covered by the Epidemic Act, then this regulation is illegal. I assume that this will also be recognized by the courts in the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister! I did it yesterday, and I would like to extend my hand and make a constructive contribution to you once again. I also tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject: [[Quoted print version removed]] Because to do this again briefly, the lockdown, the hard lockdown with the closure of trade and schools, no longer shows a positive effect, the soft lockdown in November was almost as effective, people no longer carry it. We want the submission of honest and transparent data in order to also have an honest and transparent decision-making basis, which is also understandable to the population. We must review the whole Murks, which we have legal and legal, and all new regulations and laws must be properly reviewed and constitutionally reviewed. They have missed the consistent and rapid protection of the population, especially the risk group. More than 3,000 deaths in the old and nursing homes are enough. The promised FFP2 masks are not yet available, the low level of test access for this population group is not yet available. We've heard all of this today. You still fail to do so, but there is a rapid need for action. Also with regard to the increase of capacity, especially in the field of health authorities, such as contact tracking, the figures presented yesterday in the main committee have shown that you have not yet taken the necessary steps and measures, although they would be urgently necessary to ensure that the health authorities can respect their work properly and that the population has more rights and freedoms and is not arbitrarily restricted in their rights. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[12:01]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6456	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, you are next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6484	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I would like to start with the remarks made by Philip Kucher, but I would like to thank all those who have participated in the very constructive discussion process that ultimately led to this solution. Philip, you said what happened and who didn't do anything good enough: I would just remind you that today a call comes from your own party, namely from my home country, going to the point that the SPÖ Burgenland is not understood, why you today agree to the most entry. So you should look in your own rows before looking at the others. [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens.]] The second story, towards colleagues Kaniak: I think there is a misunderstanding in principle. What is it about? . We discussed the issue of vaccination for a long time yesterday. We all know how this works with the vaccination. The European Medicines Agency approves vaccines that are safe, tested and good and with regard to which science agrees that this is a way out of the pandemic. Of course, we are all happy if there is as much vaccine as possible in Austria as soon as possible, which can then be vaccinated according to risk groups and priorities. Until this is so far, until all those who want to be vaccinated voluntarily in Austria – still with the emphasis on voluntaryness – are able to do so, we want to offer opportunities and solutions to move as safely as possible. I discussed this with Mr Loacker earlier, and I also very much welcome the fact that NEOS are always committed to very constructive participation when it comes to allowing for freedom, because it is ultimately about it. What surprises me is: From the liberties, we're always supposed to have a general suspicion. That's total nonsense. We want to offer security. I therefore do not understand at all. I liked what Clubobwife Meinl-Reisinger said on Sunday: What if I know I don't endanger someone who is fish-à-vis when I know I don't risk my grandma and my grandpa when I know I'm negatively tested? What's the problem? – That’s self-protection, but that’s also the protection against those closest to us – so what’s that supposed to be? [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs from Greens and NEOS.]] This has nothing to do with general suspicion, but it has something to do with health and safety. [[Abg. Amesbauer: This has something to do with compulsion!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kaniak.]] We want to offer opportunities for trade, tourism, sport and culture to take place again until everyone is vaccinated – I really don't understand the problem. It's about voluntaryity. [[Abg. Amesbauer: This is not voluntary, if not everyone is allowed to enter!]] I welcome the very - Mr Keck mentioned this yesterday - when companies that are now introducing test roads, which can later be used as vaccination roads, will pay for the extra burden. Of course, it remains voluntary, of course it remains free of charge for all employees. This is our top goal: to offer safety, the possibility of being tested to know what health status looks like, and thus to allow for opening up. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] I would like to ask you, particularly the Liberals' Group, for otherwise I would like to express my great support: Consider whether it is really good if you split the population. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Yes, you split the population! They're creating two classes! It's a joke!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ries.]] I don't think so. We do not split the population, because we are still trying to make the health of all the people living in Austria the ultimate goal of finding a way to get through the pandemic as well as possible – and that is quite simple: testing, testing, testing, vaccination, vaccination. I thank all those who understand and join in. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6583	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6604	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! For our part, the full enthusiasm cannot break out of this bill – only because one receives the last change at 11.20 a.m. and it is now 12.05 p.m. That's all a little bit of a handle, and that's also the quality that's usually used to work with. Let's get to something positive. What you did to us at New Year's Eve – with a review of New Year's – would have been to lock everyone in, and then, as you have called it, you can go free. Now there is a paradigm change: People should be allowed out of the house in principle, and if you want to do certain things, then you need an access test. [[Abg. Worm: They're gonna get a foot shackle, Gerald!]] That's not intoxicating now, but that's better and it's more targeted than what you originally planned. On the other hand, I have to say – yesterday was a meeting of the main committee, which has been extending the initial restrictions every ten days since November – that I am afraid that we are having a sham discussion here, because you do not intend to let it come to the most accessable, but rather to have the Republic locked up. Then we wouldn't get to the pleasure of going to a theater or to a cinema at least a little safer. A particularly funny role has been played by SPÖ in this discussion, which – usually Pamela Rendi-Wagner wants to lock everything up and turn it around for even longer until the numbers are almost zero, because for so long we are not allowed to do anything – no entry tests for the Gastro, except there. How the SPÖ explains to us and itself is a mystery to me. This is, of course, the opportunity for the Minister. This is the chance to get a project on the ground for the first time in his ministerial career. If you now make a regulation for the most accessable that then works, then surprise me positively – you should go into the stories positively. Mr Schalmeiner drew attention to the electronic vaccination passport, on which decisions are still being taken. The electronic vaccination is an important development. For example, countries such as Portugal have had it since 2012. We're working on it. But you always have to say: It is a hull stage in which the electronic vaccination passport is located in Austria. There are no official doctors, no occupational doctors, no school doctors, and all the election doctors are not connected. If, in the course of the Covid special measures, there is also the possibility of vaccinations, they are not connected either. And what's definitely a problem: No one knows how much has been vaccinated, and not at all, to whom. There is now a nice counting machine on the side of the Ministry of Health, but the counting machine counts only what has been delivered, and assumes – and so it is inserted into the counting machine – that everything delivered today will be vaccinated tomorrow. That someone has an idea of how many people in Austria have actually been vaccinated, how many of them have received their first and how many of them have received their second vaccination, can be no talk at all. Unfortunately, what happens there is a health-political blind flight.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6641	Mr Rudolf Anschober has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6665	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have to thank myself very much at the beginning for having had a very exciting negotiation process, discussion process on these decisions today. I think that today's decisions make clear progress in two key areas of our Pandemic Limitation Strategy, namely, in expanding testing and in implementing the Austrian vaccination strategy in central areas. But let me address a point that is important to me before that, because I realize that this is now the dominant topic of the pandemic internationally, but it is obviously not yet quite arrived here in the house, namely the question of the development and the spread of the mutation of the Covid virus in Great Britain. [[Abg. Worm: B.1.1.7!]] This is known for this now, and we know a lot of studies now that it is much more contagious than the previous virus strain. According to four months of experience, experts from Britain in particular believe that there is a risk of infection increased by more than 50 percent, so we have experienced a very dramatic development in some countries with very close links with the UK, for example, Ireland in recent weeks. In Ireland, for example, as regards the number of new infections, the development of the pioneer in Europe just before Christmas, as regards low figures, a very good position and situation, has occurred in recent days to the maximum levels in Europe at the present time as regards the seven-day incidences. That was a tenfold increase in the numbers within three weeks, i.e. this mutation actually has a huge potential in itself. The fact that more and more European states report massive findings of this virus mutation is a very, very alarming sign. In Slovakia, there were last estimates of a share of this mutation in total infection rates, the positive rate, of up to 15 percent. There were reports of high numbers, for example, from Switzerland and from many other European countries – I am falling into the Netherlands – so the trend is quite a step in the direction that this virus is on top of it, gradually pushing out the old virus strain and thus dramatically pushing this pandemic again. This is the risk we are currently seeing that all experts in Europe are seeing, and so I repeat what I formulated yesterday: I'm afraid we're at the beginning of the most difficult phase of the pandemic. Until Easter we are in this situation. To Easter, I hope, and in this respect I am very confident, then already parts of society will be vaccinated and that will start to work, and secondly, that is known, there will be a climate change at that time. Rising temperatures also mean that we are re-increasing in the open again, and this also reduces the risk from this aspect. We therefore want to put in a few important points when it comes to this control, when limiting the spread of this mutation, first of all to control the spread. We are there, and we have already taken great steps forward that we are massively expanding the corresponding control network. Meanwhile, thousands of samples are being taken towards presequences so that we can determine where there are general mutations, and then exactly these risk cases, these suspicions in the form of comprehensive sequences, which then last eight to ten days, are being examined whether this virus form is actually the one we are looking for. This is the central area with which we need to work quickly in this regard. Nevertheless, the two decisions we are taking today, which are taking a step further. Increase testing: Yes! This has already been very, very well done in recent months. Remember the spring with me! We were there at 4 000 to 5 000 tests a day; at present, we are well over 100 000 tests a day. And if someone here speaks of it – and I hear two speakers from different political groups who repeat it – that there is no testing strategy in Austria, then I would simply ask to listen from time to time – that's the one option. The other option is to go to the website of the Ministry of Health, where this test strategy is very easy to read, is detractable. There are, which is real – of course! – everything else would be totally unimaginable. Of course, it is being further developed because we are making technical progress on testing. Among other things, the introduction of antigen tests has succeeded in massively increasing this number of tests. In the last days, more than 100,000 antigen tests have been registered in Austria every day – on each day, in 24 hours, over 100,000 corresponding tests. That means we're really going into the detail, we're going deep. - That's the one point. In this regard, it is still important to me that we strengthen the power of this test now through two points which are very, very important today in this decision-making, namely, the point that we extend the use of antigen testing by professional group testing and by access testing. I would like to stress something about the access tests, because there have obviously been mistakes in the communication of individuals – not from our side –: It is not that the gastronomy would be excluded from these tests! In the area of today's decision, there is expressly no exception for gastronomy – I think it is important to clarify this once again – and it will depend on the further course of the pandemic in which we really need to implement such access testing. The access test is a key to opening up and therefore from my point of view something very positive, because each of us wants opening steps, if they are feasible from a virological point of view, and the access testing can be an instrument for it. That means that, in my view, this is a wise, good consideration, and therefore a thank you for a very good discussion on this subject also in the Health Committee and for a serious handling of this issue. The second innovation, which is contained here, is dealing with self-tests, which we are introducing today for the first time in a concrete official Austrian legislative text – in fact, there is still nowhere in Europe, according to my knowledge. But this is a very big innovation. Why? – Here I am supported and promoted by what you often say, namely the self-determination of the individual. [[towards FPÖ]] I'm on this side! We can not only work with bans and commandments, we must provide technologies that make it possible for the individual to control and look at himself in a sense: I'm contagious, is that a subject?, and that can also be repeated constantly. That is why we want to place these self-tests on the market in large quantities, and this requires the legal conditions. And quite, very important is today's wording, namely that it is mandatory for everyone and everyone who uses such a self-test at home to register it in the case of a positive result and must ensure that there is a review of this test result, because theoretically there could be false positive results, and we do not want it to be wrong with the corresponding consequences – keyword: Quarantäne et cetera – follow. That means that's good, that's right. This means that we have the self-test also in the system, a really great progress. I would like to thank all those who have helped to benefit from this discussion. Another important area is the large area of vaccination: Yes, this is a very important decision as regards the financing of the electronic vaccination. You know, if some of the colleagues here mention examples that say, in this country and in that country – I think Portugal was the example – since 2012 the electronic vaccination, I can only confirm that. I can only say: I've been in this position for a year now. Before my time it's said, it's a project – really, I'm not telling any jokes! – for the year 2030; a pilot project for 2030 has called it. One of my predecessors – I don't call it a name – has developed it in this direction of impact. [[irradiated]] We made tremendous progress last year thanks to your help. [[towards FPÖ]] Mr Worm, don't look critically! I didn't mention any name who that could have been. [[irradiated]] [[Abg. Worm: I just thought! I've been thinking!]] Thinking is always good, is not forbidden, quite the contrary: That's good! We have thus developed this project extremely further last year in the good cooperation between the Ministry and the National Council by jointly creating the legal conditions for the roll-out of the electronic vaccination passport. And I can already say that the Covid vaccination has, of course, been able to build up a corresponding pressure in recent weeks, so that it can be quickly rolled out and the appropriate financing needs in particular with regard to the In this context, I would like to thank the doctors for their good cooperation. We have now reached around 40 percent; the total roll-out will succeed, I assume, and that is binding, until the end of March at the latest. I would like to thank this House for providing funding for this. Coming to the end but again: These are important building blocks for the future work to limit the pandemic, but let us be honest, because of the spread of this virus mutation, we will be faced with quite new challenges in limiting the pandemic, with all the consequences, with all the consequences that exist and which we already know from some neighbouring countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6738	Next speaker: Mrs Agnes Sirkka Prammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6759	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! There is something we all have a lot of, and these are questions. We not only wonder when we can live normally again, but we also wonder what our life looks like. Will I get my job again? Will there be my company then? Will I get an apprenticeship? Can I finish school? Will I be able to repay the loan for my house? – All these are existential questions that we are now asking ourselves, who are working on and who we are looking for answers. And these answers, which we need so urgently, depend on when we finally get hold of this virus so far that it can no longer spread freely. We all know that the effort we have been making for almost a year is not about making the virus harmless to the individual human being, but rather about preventing so many of us from being sick at the same time that we can no longer sufficiently care for people who need intensive treatment in the hospital. We can only do this if we make it impossible for this virus to skip from one person to the next and to the next and the next. The fewer transmissions take place in a short time, the fewer people are infected at the same time, the less infected, the less ill, the less ill, the less ill and the severely ill, and the fewer people in hospitals. That's the logic of action. So far, we have had a means against this spread, namely to avoid contacts. Fortunately, a lot of research and development was possible in the past year. We know today that vaccinated people will not be seriously ill with very high probability. And we also know that people in whom an infection with an antigen rapid test is not detectable are unlikely to be contagious. For us as legislators, this gives us a whole new opportunity, but also a whole new commitment. Now that we know that we can specifically find out which contacts are more dangerous than others, we also need to differentiate specifically. We no longer need to prevent almost all contacts in general, but we can specifically allow those where we can very likely assume that they do not lead to a transmission of the virus. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With the antigen rapid tests, we now also have the opportunity to determine with relatively low effort where it is likely that this is such an unwholesome contact. The regulation we are deciding on today is necessary because it gives the Minister of Health the legal opportunity to fulfil his duty with the best available resources at present, namely to maintain the health system and thus the adequate health care for people. He must be able to do this with the lowest possible intervention in fundamental and freedom rights, which is especially important for us Greens. Now there are more Resources available for this purpose. With this law we let him use it. It creates the basis for less participation in freedom of employment, fewer participation in private life, fewer participation in the right to education while ensuring equal protection of the right to health. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This law is the next logical step towards normality, which we all look forward to. That is why I ask you to support this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6820	Next speaker: Mrs Verena Nussbaum. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6841	Madam President. High house! Federal Minister! Yes, I'm going to come back to the test strategy, because you mentioned earlier that I always mention it. [[towards Federal Minister Anschober]] I feel that I have always said so, because we as SPÖ have been calling for a test strategy since April. [[Federal Minister Anschober: Yes, that is there!]] It's not about how many tests you're doing, it's about: What's the goal? Who would you like to test? [[Federal Minister Anschober: Exactly!]] There's been a lack of time for months. [[Federal Minister Anschober: Don't vote!]] - Well! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] It will – and I believe we are all in agreement – give no other way out of this pandemic than with a well thought out test strategy, but also vaccination strategy. The fact that the professional groups are also regularly tested, I think that is very positive. Of course, it was also important to us that this is done free of charge. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Public testing will not only be possible if mass testing is announced, but it will be necessary for these public testing possibilities to be built across the board and offered free and permanent. I am particularly pleased that the so-called living room tests have now been taken up and that the way in which this is handled in positive testing is also regulated. With the vaccination strategy it is different than with the test strategy, since we have a prioritisation of the particularly vulnerable groups that they are first vaccinated; however, the vaccination comes to the people is not quite clear, that is again different from federal to federal. It is, of course, necessary that the vaccination can be offered particularly low-density. What is also essential – because we are now getting the first feedback from doctors who are immunising – is the information about how many doses of vaccination are delivered so that doctors can plan, because this is the only way to ensure a high rate of vaccination quickly. That's missing so far. I would like to mention positively that I am particularly pleased that in the future there will be opportunities to build free test and vaccination roads in the establishments, because that is, I believe, necessary to ensure that as many people as possible are reached. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Worm:... you have to laugh at it yourself!]] For the electronic vaccination, I would like to say that it is good that this is now in motion. I think it will be necessary for the population to see their vaccination data easily and digitally accessible. Greece, for example, has already announced that it only wants to leave people with vaccination in the country, that is, to see that the bureaucratic effort is kept as low as possible. Debates of the European Parliament In the case of corona vaccinations, it is currently necessary to confirm a two-sided sheet of information and documentation including the usage information with a signature. That's not feasible! There's no other vaccination. I don't know why this is suddenly necessary during the corona vaccination. Mr Minister, I call on you to reduce this bill of Enlightenment to one side and also to offer it in a barrier-free version! It is important that the tests and vaccinations are carried out quickly and easily and, of course, free of charge, so that we can finally end this lockdown. I put to that a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[12:29]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7021	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Josef Smolle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7045	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to table an amendment tabled by Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Dietmar Keck, Mr Ralph Schallmeiner, colleagues in the report of the Committee on Health on Amendment No 1124/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schallmeiner, Mr Colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on a grant of the purpose to countries due to the COVID-19 crisis (COVID-19 TEST Act), 627 of the supplements, concerning the special provisions for population-wide testing and special provisions for vaccinations for population-wide vaccinations against COVID-19. At the heart of this is that it will be possible to make official vaccinations possible even for occupational doctors. I would also like to briefly report on the value of these test methods that we are currently using. There is a wide variety of discussions to this end. First a word about the PCR test, the polymerase chain reaction. This test method has not been valid in vain for many years in many pathogens as the gold standard, as it can be used to demonstrate pathogens with high safety. Then there was concern, there could be false positive results. There is an attempt at this field, which is very much against it. New Zealand, you remember, was completely corona-free for a few months. During this time, around 300 000 PCR tests were carried out there: No one was positive. That means that you really have a very high reliability. Among other things, it is now also about the antigen tests. In the antigen tests, one can say quite sure: If the viral load is high, these antigen tests will also start. And it's about these people, because asymptomatic people with high viral load can actually be contagious to other people. There have also been discussions on how infectious asymptomatic individuals can be, as well as on the following: They can be, they are. There are estimates that about 50 percent of infections take place over asymptomatic persons, and that is also the diaphragm of this disease. [[Abg. Worm: Where did you get the numbers? What study, please? Where do you have the 50 percent, Mr. Colleague?]] If only the sick could pass on the disease, only someone who has fever would spread much less, because someone who is sick has fever remains at home and does not go to the night gastronomy. Especially by the people who do not know that they are infected, who are not yet ill, the disease is spread further. It's this possibility of re-testing a really good chance that you can say I'm going to a room where I'm together with many other people, and I can be pretty sure I'm not a danger, I'm not going to infect anyone. This is an act of consideration, a process of carefulness. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Of course, the question is: Freedom or compulsion, what's behind that? There are two concepts of freedom for me. The first term of freedom is the concept of solidarity with a view to ensuring that, as far as possible, all people in freedom and security can live their lives. And the second is the selfish concept of freedom: I want my freedom, nothing happens to me, the others are wishing me! Excuse me if I express it directly now: The answer to the question of the concept of freedom in the pandemic can also be read by whether one is willing to wear protective masks or not. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7111	Mr Smolle! While you have mentioned that you are submitting an amendment, it must be explained in its basic guidelines, and neither I nor Parliament's management have heard anything about the content. In other words, I would ask you to make a brief reference to the content of your amendment. It is enough if this happens in three sentences, but that is necessary, otherwise it is considered not to be introduced.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7126	The essential thing is that this text of the law, in this passage, lists which institutions can be official vaccines, whose costs are borne and recovered by the public hand. In the original version, the occupational medical facilities were not intended, since it was considered that this was already the case with the preventive work of the occupational doctors. The draft has now been explicitly amended in such a way that occupational medical facilities can be such official vaccines. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[12:35]] The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7257	Thank you very much, Mr Smolle. As a result, the application has been explained in the main guidelines, is also sufficiently supported, is distributed and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Gerald Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7282	Madam President. Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen. The position of the Freedom Party is clear, we say: Locking up businesses, securing jobs – of course, in compliance with hygiene requirements – and maximum protection of risk groups, Minister! I brought the example of Pflegeheim Matrei to the committee. This is really a model: 100 inhabitants and so far not a single positive case! That's the model! It is tragic if we had a total of 3 000 deaths in old and care homes that would have been prevented. That's 50 percent of all the dead. So this is our position, and I'm telling you why. There is a scientific approach, there is a brand-new publication, the last author is John Ioannidis. The conclusion of this publication is: The massive lockdowns bring nothing at all epidemiologically! This opinion now also represents the cash medical association in Germany. The second approach, which is why we need to lock up in compliance with the hygiene regulations, is: There are two classes of farms, one class that sleeps on a hunger cloth, and another class that is supported by the government. And for the class of farms who were sleeping on the hunger cloth, it has brought the wife Alexandra, the Linz hostess, to the point for many, she says: I have to lock up! I have a son who is 13 years old, we are starved! - That's the tragedy! And believe me, I needed half an hour here to list all the cases that show how indifferent the government is, and how it treats particularly the micro-enterprises, the small landlords, the private tenants and the small businessmen seriously, does not support them, so that these companies actually sleep on hunger. I'm just telling you one example: There is the success model of private rental as part of the domestic acquisition and acquisition up to a maximum of ten beds. So, how does that look now? Investments are made so that the credit can be repaid for the house. This group of persons makes a request to the Security Fund, and what does it get to answer? – For example, the promotion is rejected because, although you have only eight beds, there is a sofa in the room where two more people could theoretically sleep. And there are many similar examples. It's really a scandal for me, how to deal with small and smallest businesses. A society is also measured by how it deals with the small people, with people with small incomes, and that makes the government bad.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7327	Mrs Dagmar Belakovich spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7351	Madam President. Mr Smolle, in his speech, said that 50 percent of the asymptomatics are contagious. – That’s wrong! As early as June, WHO excluded asymptomatic patients from infecting others. In autumn, the so-called Wuhan study was conducted in a case of several thousand people. It has also found that asymptomatic patients pose no risk at all. Finally, there is the Innsbruck study, conducted by microbiologist Lass-Flörl and Günter Weiss. These are the heads of internal medicine of the Medical University of Innsbruck. They have also said that asymptomatic infections are as good as no one.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7410	Next speaker: Mrs Sibylle Hamann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7432	Madam President! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps I get short [[towards ÖVP and FPÖ]] Your attention, I brought you something. Perhaps you too, colleague Belakovich! [[The speaker holds a test kit.]] This is the new quick test for schools. [[Abg. Belakovich: He is not allowed...!]] Five million of them are on their way to Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] You will hopefully arrive in Austria tomorrow, will be delivered to all schools in this country over the weekend and hopefully will be applied from next Monday. [[Abg. Belakovich: And the schools are too!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Matznetter and Mr Belakovich.]] This test is easy to perform, it's as simple as drilling noses. [[Abg. Worm: Are those of Siemens, or who produced it?]] - They're from China. [[Abg. Worm: Are they from China?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] The test is fast, takes only a few minutes, it's very low, you don't have to go anywhere, and you can do it together in schools, as a kind of weekly ritual, one to two times a week. [[Abg. Belakovich: He is not allowed...!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I really have the hope that this new type of testing is a game changer and that schools can also perform a trend feeding function for other areas. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I also say, with full intention, that from next Monday we can already test, because unlike many people here in the room always claim, the educational institutions are open to a large extent. I'm thinking about kindergartens first. [[Abg. Belakovich: I am thinking of the schools that have been for months!]] They have been in full operation for months, almost since the beginning of the pandemic, de facto, and the educators there are doing extremely important work. Now they also get these tests in order to have more security for themselves. I think of the special schools – they are all the time already in the classroom – where a lot of relationship work is necessary, combined with a lot of proximity, including physical proximity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] There, too, the children as well as the educators and educators will be able to do these tests from next week. In all schools, children are cared for, 20, 30, 40 percent every day. There are children in schools who need the school as a learning place, who get language practice there, for example, the children of the German funding classes, children who get funding lessons there, children also the upper classes that prepare for exams, the school work, in the middle and higher schools, teaching takes place in practical subjects on the spot – all that every day also in presence, and for all of these children there will be the opportunity to test themselves from next week. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Without class since autumn holidays!]] And yes, from 25. Januarys will probably be even more if we hopefully go into a form of flexible shift operation, and these tests hopefully make a difference. Why? – For three reasons: The first is the subjective sense of security. I really understand teachers who fear, I also understand parents who fear because you just can't know where the virus is everywhere. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] This test, of course, does not guarantee – no one can give it – but it does give more security than before. A second point that is very important to me: We will reach the population with this test, which is currently not accessible by the test roads. We've read the numbers. 7 percent of the recruits are positive at the moment without knowing it. There are a lot of people who apparently do not observe the current test offers for a variety of reasons. That can be indifference, that can be shame, that can be distrust, that can be fear. It can be easy to worry about others and not feel affected. About the schools, I think, we now get the chance to test into all the population groups, and all the population groups get the chance to find out that the virus might have already arrived with them. Last point: I also hope that we will get some insight into the overall development of the virological situation; I am now just saying the word B.1.1.7 and I am saying the word Ireland and I am looking at NEOS in particular. I remember when I was standing here last time, they called me: In Ireland everything is so great! Schools are open all the time, low rates of infection, all right! Now let's look at Ireland: The numbers go through the ceiling, the whole country has to lock. [[Abg. Schrangl:... Lock everything! Maybe it's not because of it!]] It's easy to see how fast it can go, and I actually think that with the help of these regular tests in schools, we get an insight into the regional and trans-regional infection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] In this sense, I send a greeting to all the children, to all teachers and to all the parents who will help there next week. They make a real, really important contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7632	The next item is Mr Nikolaus Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7653	Madam President. Federal Minister! Yes, Federal Minister, this is not a glamorous day today as far as this law is concerned. We got the amendment proposal about an hour ago, which is quite complex, and it is questionable whether you can read it through in the short period of time, so that you also know for sure what's inside. You do not make it any easier for us in the whole matter, and I do not understand it in this connection, because the question of a sensible test strategy is something that at least four political groups here in this House agree. I don't understand why we don't create sensible solutions together, and that also with a sensible timetable, because you have to remember what you originally proposed. The first thing you've proposed, so around the New Year's Day, was that all people who don't make a test can't de facto go out of the house anymore. This is, of course, an inconceivable restriction of freedom. [[Interference of Federal Minister Anschober.]] Right – right! – Mr Federal Minister, the population has become so excited about this massive restriction of fundamental and freedom rights that you too have come to believe that it may not be very intelligent to do so. You have to think about where that came from. The whole thing has happened because you gave a press conference with the Federal Chancellor, announced something for which there was no legal basis. This too is quite annoying in a parliamentary way: first of all, tell something that does not exist. They obviously didn't even have the design yet, he came only later. And if I think about what the Greens would have said earlier, if you were to start a three-day review period over a holiday, I mean that this is not even ridiculous anymore, there is no suitable expression for it at all. This is an insult to all those people who want to participate in this process! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Apart from the numerous and obvious constitutional irregularities of this free test, which you originally proposed, you would have received an inconceivable wealth of power with this regulatory authority. They could have de facto, without any further definition of the exceptions to the bans and bans on entry, by regulation, which is what people can do with a negative covid test. I'll tell you: In principle, this cannot be in conformity with the law, because the idea of the regulatory authority is that you define something so clearly in a law that you can of course adopt regulations, but you cannot give you such an inconspicuously wide margin that you can de facto do and leave what you want. But above all, Mr Federal Minister – so sorry I do –: We've had the problem with you in the last few months. They have been granted legal mandates and have used them for a fee, partly – we remember the bans in spring – they have simply been misused unlawfully. That's why you need to be more careful and limit this room so that it makes sense, and then you can discuss it without further delay. The scope you have in the mandate is still very far, I say very critically, Mr Federal Minister, but with God not as far as the original proposal. Accordingly, Mr Federal Minister, I say to you: Also, take care to deal with the fullness of power that you now receive with this decree authority! Take care of it! This is a confidence advance that we give you, because we find testing and sensible testing strategies reasonable. Just be careful that you don't strain this again with a fee! By the way – and this is actually the excitement –: When you look at what came out at the end, it shows that both intelligent ideas of social democracy and well-known ideas have been incorporated by NEOS. All in all, I would like us to put ourselves together in advance if we consider how we can do such things, and not first of all be sent into consideration by you for three days such an absurd bill that he really has to fail. What's inside now, and why do we consider this good? – There are tests for certain professional groups inside; something we have already proposed for a long time. The real question that arises is: Why not now? – You could probably have done that earlier. It is the possibility of self-tests you have addressed that you implement them. And yes, it will now – contrary to what was originally proposed, namely: I have to test myself so that I can de facto go out of the house – give entrance tests for certain services. This is not the ideal condition I wish for, but it is a little more freedom in certain services that I use, and I therefore think it is good. What it takes to ensure that this can work is so low test possibilities that you have the chance to use the corresponding service at all. They're all called on to join us. The big question is how to handle this with the self-tests in the future, so that it is so accessible that every person has the opportunity to take advantage of it to go to the cinema, to the theatre, wherever, and that it can work. Overall, Mr Federal Minister, I still believe that the law we are going to adopt today can be a maximum start. We know both or all that this is not going to be applied in the morning because the lockdown is likely to last longer. In so far as I would suggest, we are doing the best we can. tomorrow or the day after, or next week, I'll get back together and think about what's still missing, because I'm convinced that this issue cannot be finally regulated with what is now being proposed. This is a first step, and until it is implemented, we will have to change a lot in this context, I think, for example, as regards the question: What happens to people who will then be vaccinated, what about them? This is not yet formulated in this bill – understandably, I have to say so because we do not yet know if there is sterile immunity. So: Let's get together now! Then perhaps together we will get a better result for the time when we will really need it.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7729	Next speaker: Mr Karlheinz Kopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7753	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens and via live streams our debates Followers! There are still many health care providers who regularly look forward to the daily published infection figures, because they still have to fear and fear that if we were to get out of the row, they would no longer be able to ensure adequate care for all acute cases in the hospital, especially in the hospital. That would be a super-GAU whose danger is still not banned. To prevent this, ladies and gentlemen, it is simply necessary that we do something very essential, namely to keep the infection figures under control. First of all, we can all contribute to this: through – it may sound trivial – compliance with the hygiene measures we always preach and propagate again and again, by holding apart, washing hands, wearing masks. Yes, that sounds trivial, the effect is also given, but we did not all stick to it in our country. In any event, the fact is that these measures alone have not been sufficient in the past to get the figures under control or keep them under control. Just remember that there were times when we had over 9 000 newly infected people in one day! So Lockdowns were in charge. In businesses, in other public life, even into the private sector, restrictions on our freedom have become necessary. And these have already been incisive things. Limiting freedom creates social problems and tensions, but, of course, it also creates a number of economic problems. Now, with the many billions that we have agreed with each other, or which the Ministry of Finance has then also put into appropriate aid programmes, many of these economic problems have been at least eased, many of them in economic distress. In the near future, however, there will still be some gaps in this system in order to be able to disperse all of these things half-way. However, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to eliminate all problems relating to Corona and Covid-19 with money. People want their freedom back – no question at all – we all want our freedom back: Entrepreneurs and their employees want to lock up their businesses again, they want to be there for their customers and, of course, they want to know when that will be. But it is now necessary that we all get together and that we all live an additional piece of personal responsibility and discipline together. At this point a word to the critics or even denyrs of this problem: Freedom, ladies and gentlemen, has not existed before the pandemic without rules or without consideration. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, as well as by Mr Rössler and Mr Jakob Schwarz.]] Whoever has used this for himself has lived, not freedom, but recklessness. [[New condolences with the ÖVP, as well as with Mr Rössler and Mr Jakob Schwarz.]] It is known that the individual's freedom ends when it affects and tangles the health of others or, in this case, freedom. In other words, what we need now, in addition to all the measures we have taken, is that as many people as possible can be tested on a regular basis in this country. Testing, testing, testing is the hour's commandment – not only because you can visit events or other facilities with a negative test or go to the inn or go on vacation; this also, but regular, comprehensive tests also help to identify as many infected people as possible and then, of course, prevent them from infecting others, i.e. reducing the infection and thereby bringing back a lot more freedom to all of us. We must not forget that. [[As a result of this, it was not possible to find a solution to this problem. Jakob Schwarz.]] For this test strategy, we are creating the legal basis today, which is a good thing. In addition to this, we agreed on additional labour rules in the circle of the social partners earlier yesterday and negotiated a general collective agreement and laid down these rules of play in it. Many companies are willing to participate in these tests in such a way that they also want to set up test stations in their own establishments, in addition to public facilities, test roads, and thus support this test strategy. Many companies have also already announced that they would like to help with the cover-up vaccination and will also support this strategy in the operations – these test roads would be ideal for continuing to use them. However, ladies and gentlemen, of course, it is only right and reasonable that this draft law now also contains a pass that the costs for these tests, and then, of course, for the vaccinations, are also replaced by the costs to the establishments. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We are now creating in very responsible cooperation here in the house in these days – thank you to all those who are constructively involved! – a step forward to combat this untold pandemic and thus a contribution to greater freedom and normality. When this strategy comes up, ladies and gentlemen, we can also put up the courage – and we should bring it up – to reopen it, to give our lives more freedom again – in the same economic as in the personal and in the private sphere. But until it is that far, it is of course necessary – and I say this again from the economic point of view – to grant these companies financial assistance even now in January. We can with these acute aids prevent many, many damage at least less or total damage. It will be a matter of course that one must continue these things, but, of course, the health of the people in Austria is the top priority.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7831	Mr Rudolf Silvan came to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7856	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen at home! Mr. Klubobmann Wöginger – who is not here now – claimed yesterday that the SPÖ was responsible for the fact that the tourism companies were on the 18th floor. They can't lock up. I would like to say: We have been and are still against free-testing, for we believe that the people in this country are free and do not need to be freed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It would also have caused a division of society that is certainly not meaningful in these times – and by the way, it never makes sense. It is true that the Federal Chancellor has experienced a rupture with his mass testing strategy. He wanted people to be tested in this way, and we spoke out against it. The Federal Minister is not here now. You have to say quite honestly: There is again criticism, because the Federal Government has slept the summer. There were in the summer of 15. ==References== September 55 press conferences, there were of 20. ==References== December 213 press conferences – 213 press conferences! It seemed to me that one wanted to deal with rhetoric and NLP training. The various messages of the Federal Chancellor were addressed to the population – I don’t want to repeat them all at all – the “light at the end of the tunnel”, “the virus comes by car”. The Coronamepel of the Minister of Health was shot by the Chancellor who said that the traffic lights were the one, the other were the measures. Then there was “new normality”, and then he made fun of science: five scientists, seven opinions. All of this has not led us to have a really efficient vaccination and testing strategy in Austria – from our point of view not to this day. We've got 14 today. January 2021 and we decide today to implement the software for the established doctors for the electronic vaccination – today! Dr. Dietmar Bayer, Vice-President of the Medical Chamber of Styria and Telemedicine, took place on 8.1. in Ö1-Journal, the fear that a medium-sized chaos will threaten if the electronic vaccination does not come soon. Since Tuesday, i.e. since 12.1., every Dane knows and every Dane knows when and where she or he can be vaccinated if she or he wants to. The Danes also have a plan up to 27. June. It is a disaster and, in fact, it is simply embarrassing that we now have 7 000 dead in Austria, 3 000 of them in the nursing homes. In recent days, we have negotiated a number of social democratic ideas: The living room tests are a centrepiece, the tests and the vaccinations should come to the people, free professional group tests, full cost replacement for professional group tests in the establishments, et cetera, et cetera. I don't want to hide either: In particular, we must continue to hold the arms of small and medium-sized enterprises, and I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[13:04]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7991	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and under negotiation. Dr Werner Saxinger is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8015	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! There's a saying: I'm going up the vaccine! – It fits very well, and I have often experienced it in the last few days. [[Abg. Belakovich: By the government!]] We have been suffering for months under this pandemic with infinite consequences such as the dead, the sick, suffering, health policy, economic and social disasters. Now there is the vaccination – what a blessing! –, and what do some, especially a party, do? – You also reject the vaccination. They simply reject everything: They don't want tests, they don't want vaccination. [[Abg. Belakovich: That's not true, what are you talking about?]] They just want to be against, polarize, radicalize. [[Abg. Belakovich: Can't you listen?]] Mrs. Colleague, there is only one way out of it – vaccination and/or testing – there is no other way. Everyone must be aware that normal life without vaccination and without a test strategy is not possible. The antigen tests offer quick results and are also there to detect high viral loads and thus the potential to infect someone else. Mrs. Belakovich, as a medical doctor, you must know Dr. Anthony Fauci. He's the expert in the U.S. and he said: We all underestimated this, up to 50 percent of the infections come from asymptomatics – read in the British Medical Journal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: This is...! It's old!]] However, I not only have the vaccine in my mind, but also in some of the choices of words. For example, the Clubobmann calls for the fight against the Federal Chancellor: “Kurz must go away!” – and his vassals follow obediently. The word battle is only appropriate in one thing: This is for me the common fight against the virus and not against a person. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We should all fight against the virus and also put all our energy in it, but there we hear little to nothing. Many are also asking whether this extreme aggression is in response in the debate, and I say to you: Radicalization is poison today. We also experience the return of liberal societies: Freedom also to understand as an insight into the necessary. I quote Konrad Paul Liessmann, who is greatly appreciated by me and says: “Medical rules, which would be accepted in individual cases” without even talking about the deprived of freedom, are suddenly “styled into an attack on fundamental rights because they all concern”. “Being a minority does not yet represent a moral or intellectual qualification.” – citation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The vast majority of the population is not loud and does not go on the road, but it also suffers under the corona conditions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] There is now also a fight for vaccine doses. Luckily, many citizens want to have themselves vaccinated quickly and gladly. It is also legitimate to say: I am waiting for the first 100 000, but, ladies and gentlemen, over 30 million people have already been vaccinated. There is only a small group of principle vaccinationers who are currently making moods in connection with conspiracy theories, but there are also persons who are insecure, and this is to convince and motivate them and explain to them in simple words what the vaccine is doing and how it works. Vaccines must be seen as something positive for us. The vaccine is safe and effective. Today we also create positive conditions for this vaccination phase, for example with the long-awaited electronic vaccination. Two days ago, a cost acquisition for this software implementation was discussed. The implementation of the electronic vaccination has now taken off thanks to the pandemic. A reliable data collection – that must be clear to all of us – can only be done electronically. With this vaccination, we must rely on the broad participation of the medical profession. She's going to: Already 1 100 have expressed their interest. By the end of March, 80 percent and by April all Covid vaccinations are to be registered in the electronic vaccination register. Installation of the vaccine within a few months is an ambitious goal – but if not now, when then? We're doing something. I would like to end with a quote from a well-known Auslandsösterreicher: by Arnold Schwarzenegger, who after the storm appealed to the population to overcome the division of the country – a wise steirer. He would probably call his new movie “The Vaccinator” and he would say: Let's get vaccinated! - Let's immunize! Or, as Professor Kollaritsch aptly puts it: If you do not like the vaccination, just try the disease! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8120	Dr. Dagmar Belakovich spoke about an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8147	For the time being, Mr Vorsprecher has said the wrong thing: He said half of all symptomless is contagious. That's wrong. I'm actually correcting: The WHO, the World Health Organization, already found in June last year that the symptomless do not result from infection. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] There was the so-called Wuhan study in autumn, and this also found that the symptomless do not result in any further infection. [[Call the Greens.]] The last study found was carried out in Austria, namely in Innsbruck. [[Call the ÖVP:Check the dissertation!]] I can say the names again: Microbiologist Lass-Flörl and Günter Weiss, Head of Internal Medicine at the University Hospital Innsbruck. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] They claim in this study: Asymptomatic infect as well as nobody. Please, dear ÖVP, maybe you can remember this the third time!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8210	Mr Peter Wurm came to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8246	Mr President. Minister! You see, you often have to repeat things so that they are understood – but I am optimistic. [[Call the ÖVP: But if they're wrong, it's a fool!]] That's why I'm going to say a sentence today and repeat it every day, and I hope it's going to fall on fertile soil sometime: Quit the lockdown immediately, open the shops, the gastronomy and the schools! – Please note this sentence! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What are we discussing today? – About two things, and I say it quite clearly again: The first part is that we decide to take over costs and prepare tests and vaccinations. Because it is always misrepresented, especially by a very aggressive EIA, I would like to mention it again: The liberals support this point. It is about taking over the costs and preparing the vaccinations so that it works so that all those who want to do so can find a reasonable process and the communities do not sit at their expense; only to disarm these fakes from the ÖVP once. We support this, and this has been decided unanimously in the Committee. We are also voting in favour today to clarify this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second part – which is actually the most interesting part today – is about the story that has caused a lot of uproar, namely, the so-called free-testing or, as it is now called, the most accessable. I would like to point out once again: Thank God a broad group of the people – these are the normal citizens of this country – have resisted the first attempt by the ÖVP and the Greens to completely destroy the constitution in Austria – which you have proposed. So, now we're sitting here and we've got the second try. Once again, an extremely skilful social democracy has fallen – for the x-th time – and is supporting the government line. As the Social Democracy explains to its workers, citizens, voters and officials, its problem is that I can only offer asylum to any social democrat. We will continue to look at citizens' rights and we will continue to represent the citizens accordingly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The small difference is the: Previously, all Austrians would have been put in prison, now all Austrians get a foothold. - That's the little fine difference. If you want to have that, you have to vote positively today. Of course, we will not vote. Also interesting is: They decide today a law that has no effect yet, because you can only allow access to shops that are open, and as we all know, God's everything is, unfortunately, closed. They once again give the Minister a complete free letter for his regulations, although we all should already know that they will not work, will be unconstitutional, and, and, please, also, the Members who support it must take on their personal cap. It remains very, very many questions open. It is also nowhere in the law or in the explanations, for example, what happens exactly in the school sector, what you do when a child is positive – who picks it up, how does it continue after that? It's not an age limit for this test shop either, is it also necessary to test infants? And, and, and – there are many, many questions open. If I'm at a hotel for more than four days, do I have to be tested twice? – So there is a lot of open questions. It's my time frame to go into it, I can only say once again: The whole intention of the law is actually an insanity, and you will not solve the problem either. What you already write in is also interesting: Negatively tested means safe for you, but in the same breath those who are almost harmless in your eyes must continue to comply with all measures. That is, you buy a ticket for a concert, you have to be tested before and then you are safe in your eyes with negative results, but you still have to leave a distance of 1.5 meters and wear a mask. The logic in itself explains to me, you may be able to do that sometime! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to put the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, one sentence – I say that quite clearly again –: There is a great danger that employees in Austria with what you decide today will also lose their jobs if employers prescribe testing or vaccination for them, and I want to warn everyone about that. The union is silent, the Chamber of Workers is silent, the SPÖ has been silent for years anyway. We will not be silent, we will be on the side of the workers and we will protect them. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[13:17]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8538	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, it is properly put in place and is therefore also under negotiation. It is now possible to speak. Elisabeth Scheucher-Pichler. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8566	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wurm, I have already experienced you more constructively. [[Abg. Worm: Please?]] Tests to compare with wearing a foot shackle, you really can't say anything more. They also know that vaccinations are voluntary. [[Abg. Belakovich: I believe you are speechless, because you have nothing to say!]] I am very glad, Mrs Belakovich, that vaccination is increasing among people in the country, but thank God also to the doctors, to the care staff and to all those who work in this field. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, the forced vaccinations...!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Because they're afraid they'll all be terminated!]] I think that is essential. Thank you all for that, too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] If you're yelling so loud, I have to say: The only concept that parts of the FPÖ currently have – I find it in such a difficult situation, in such a crisis in which we are all, unfortunate – is that you are against all, against Sebastian Kurz, against the government. [[Abg. Belakovich: Many are against Sebastian Kurz!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Hörl.]] Whatever we suggest and do: Everything's wrong! – This is the wrong way, Mrs Belakovich! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] We should stand together, work together. We should try to end this biggest health and global economic crisis together. [[Abg. Belakovich: Live it!]] Health – one cannot say it often enough – is the most important prerequisite for all areas of our society. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Health is the prerequisite for our families, for schools, for the economy, for the working world. Health is also the prerequisite for prosperity, and that is why we must do everything we can to curb this pandemic. That will be difficult enough, and that is why we should all work together. [[Abg. Belakovich: How much percent are sick? Can't you answer it or don't you want to answer it?- Oh, my God!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if we are now immunizing the over 80-year-olds, I am delighted about that. Every death is painful, especially in nursing homes. Before Christmas, you accused us of locking away the old people; I must say: This has been a very difficult situation. [[Abg. Belakovich: Would you have protected them!]] I know that the nursing homes and also the nursing staff have done their best. [[Abg. Belakovich: Now so many have already died!]] I am glad that we are now also very quick – I am especially talking about the area in which I am working – to immunize over 80-year-olds, medical staff, doctors, nurses. Please do not forget the mobile services, even the staff in this area must be vaccinated as quickly as possible! I would like to comment a little more because I always receive e-mails: Please provide the registrations not only online, but also by telephone. The seniors have already arrived in the digitalized world, but please don't make it any harder for them. Let us also try to ensure that access is as low as possible. My doctor's colleagues have already mentioned this: This vaccine, the vaccine we now have, is safe. We will soon receive further vaccines, which are also easier to act on. Then there will also be more vaccinations, and especially vaccinations for those who want to. This is the way back to a normal life, ladies and gentlemen. I think we have to think, above all, of those people who have prediseases. We must think of those people who are being cared for at home and also of the caring relatives. It is the right way for us to be involved now, Minister of State, with the countries and also with the communities. I think this is very important, because there are people there. For example, last weekend in Carinthia, the senior organizations who call for over 80 years of age have informed and informed them, have also offered them assistance to bring them to the vaccination sites. I believe that it really is up to the federal states, but also the municipalities, to thank the mayors. Many of them, as well as other community representatives, have taken their own phone and called. The more we inform and clarify, the higher the vaccination will be. I think this is the right way to really pick up in a joint effort – even if the start was bumpy – now. I'm sure we'll succeed. Also talk to your doctor, ladies and gentlemen! I say this specifically to the seniors: The family doctor is the trusted person. Get in touch! Talk to him! - I've already done it. I'll have myself vaccinated as soon as I'm done. There are, of course, questions again and again – it has already been mentioned today –: Why did all this go so fast? Is the vaccine safe? and so on. It has already been carried out: It has never been so intensive and so constructively worked together internationally. [[Abg. Belakovich: What you say...!]] There have been parallel studies. Financing has been set up internationally. All Covid-19 vaccines have been tested for safety and efficacy with thousands of volunteers. The vaccination that is currently being used here is the third best tested. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said several times, but it cannot be said often enough: Test and vaccinate, that's the way back! Yes, testing is important, because it can also be people who have no symptoms. Therefore: Testing and vaccinating, this is the door opener to a normal social life again. The most entry and also the most professional group testing – some colleagues have already responded to it – is very important for the events, for the companies. We need the economy, we have to give hope again. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that we still have to deal with the dangers of mutations, that we must be very vigilant. Yeah, the most entrance is a great effort, but I think he pays off. The professional group test is already accepted, there are already great examples. The Chamber of Commerce is involved. There are farms that are involved. I think this is the right way, and also testing in schools – Mrs Hamann has already referred to it. The tests have been further developed, the tests have become easier. I think that's a very, very big chance. In conclusion: Freedom, ladies and gentlemen, we will have when the pandemic is over. Then we'll have real freedom again. I therefore have no understanding of this if there are no rules in the event of demonstrations when there is no delay when masks are not worn when people are scared with populist actions when there is annoyed and contradictory information when falsehoods are spread when science and doctors are mistreated. [[Abg. Kassinger: Here we are at the same time on the subject: Untruths!]] This group, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately also includes some from a party that is democratically elected here in the house, this group leaves out of social consensus. I think this is very worrying. It leaves the social consensus, the social cohabitation to beat political capital. I'm appealing to you: Rethinking You're this way! – Testing and vaccinating, ladies and gentlemen, this is the way, and I think we all wish we could return to our normal life. Stay healthy! Please inform yourself and let yourself be tested and vaccinated!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8779	Mrs Dagmar Belakovich spoke on an actual amendment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8806	Mr President. I'll try again. Again, a member of the ÖVP has come here, claiming that there are symptoms of infection. [[Call to the ÖVP: Right it has!]] - That's wrong. I'll explain it for the third time. [[Call the ÖVP: Don't get any better!]] The WHO has noted and already published this in June: Symptomless people don't have infections, Mrs. Colleague. Furthermore, there is the so-called Wuhan study, published in autumn 2020, and also that has found: Symptomless people do not have infections. The latest study, a study from Austria, from Innsbruck, found: Symptomless people do not have infections. – All these are not any claims, but these are experts and scientific studies that have found out. Mrs. Colleague! If you already make yourself here and ask the Austrians to be tested: It would be good if you, as head of the auxiliary agency, were to ensure that the staff of the Carinthian relief plant were tested! You'd have enough to do that. There are many who have not been tested once.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8856	Henrike Brandstötter is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8881	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear EPUs! Behind us lies a year full of Marky Proverbs, colorful word pictures and flowery comparisons. There was the resurrection that Sebastian Kurz has prophesied about Easter 2020 and which has been cancelled. Then came the light at the end of the tunnel, but ended up as a stark glowing worm. Meanwhile, the virus came by car, but never with the cable car, and in between it was always about everything. The next two, three, four weeks, they are crucial to our future! – The future did not occur then because there was an acute need for action. That is why the rebirth was also cancelled for Christmas, instead, the government is setting aside with few exceptions. To mention positively is the most entry. This is especially good for the really very tricky event industry, which for a year hardly has a chance to take any steps. And, of course, it is also welcome if real expertise is brought into the government in difficult times. But what worries me: Not only do we have half a million unemployed, we also have half a million individual entrepreneurs in Austria, many of them from the event and event sectors. They feel a bit caught up when the new Minister of Labour thinks that insolvency will “not meet the labour market to a huge extent” because it is mainly about small and micro-enterprises. Thus, half a million EPCs have to deal with real challenges and a difficult economic situation in a short time. They have to do with confused regulations relating to the hardness fund and with a outsourced financing agency that should pay fixed-cost subsidies, but which does not work at all. Small businesses and the EPCs create a third of the jobs in Austria, in particular they create their own jobs. They can also continue to work for a very long time under difficult conditions, are also the first ones that can start again because they carry the least of the ballast with them – if they are left if they are not constantly thrown between their legs, if one does not think that insolvency would not hit the EPCs any more or would not be bad. In addition, the SVS is now starting to make the contributions at an early stage. The support for contributions has been sold to the companies as aid, and now this assistance is at the door of the entrepreneurs together with the executive. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Worm.]] [[Abg. Worm: If the colleagues are not there!]] What do we need instead of the performer, instead of resurrection myths, instead of thorny fairy tales? – First of all: Make sure the Cofag finally works! It may not be that applications there disappear without a trace that EPUs wait for months for an answer. Only today has an entrepreneur written to me that the Cofag does not even know where the request is, where it has disappeared. There seems to be total chaos. Secondly, If you change the game rules and order new or extended closings, please also make sure that the support fits! And thirdly, Create They finally have clarity for entrepreneurs who can't take a plan in the next year! Because at the beginning I also mentioned Dornröschen: There's the prince who's hurrying to save, but he'll be able to do it for 100 years. Please don't take an example of that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8942	The word now comes from Ing. Mag.a Alexandra Tanda. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8964	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens, at home via live stream and wherever there is still the patience to listen to us! For almost a year, the whole world has been fighting the corona virus, and we are all tired: tired of complying with the rules and restrictions, tired of the circumstances that burden our lives. That's human, that's understandable. It is not understandable to me, on the other hand, that one is against steps with a martial and divisive language, which, in turn, allow a normal, social and secure relationship. It is therefore also incomprehensible to me why this change of law is not carried by the FPÖ. In some speeches, I hear a song – I can't do it for it –: ‘It hurts so much when mom loses.’ With this vaccination, we get all our normal, old, familiar life that we all long for. However, until a sufficient rate of vaccination is achieved, only the consistent testing and follow-up will reduce the overload of hospitals and the number of infections. There is probably a vaccination strategy and there is also a test strategy. In my native Tyrol, the first tens of thousands of Tyroleans will have received the first dose of vaccination by the end of this week, and parallel to vaccination, the test capacity in Tyrol has been increased to up to 50,000 tests per day. With regard to the word reintesting or whatever you want to call it: What is so robbing about freedom before going to a concert? You book a ticket on your name, as you have always done, and in addition to the QR code for the ticket, you still have proof of a negative test. All data will be deleted after the event visit. The text of the law is clear and clear: “A storage of proof and proof of identity is inadmissible”, and I trust in our legislation. Or: What is so restrictive if the members of a professional group, in which there is close contact on a daily basis, such as in the case of close-to-body service providers or employees in patient transport or in health facilities and hospitals to be tested weekly for their own protection and protection of their clients? I think these few minutes, which take such a test, are worth protecting all of us, especially to protect our most vulnerable fellow human beings. I often let myself be tested, and it really does not hurt. On the contrary: I feel more secure when I know I can't pass the disease on to anyone and that I'm not sick myself. I will also have myself vaccinated, and once again I emphasize: Willingly, I am given a vaccination, and then, when I'm on it, with a vaccine that has been tested much more than sera against cholera or hepatitis. This prevention measure of voluntary and free testing is definitely the relief of operating closures and starting blocks. That is why I really have to confirm – with all my understanding of opposition policy – once again: I just can't understand why you can't go there as a liberal! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9015	Next speaker is Mag. Thomas Drozda. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9039	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister, wherever he may be! I think everyone is aware that without a vaccination strategy – and we talked about this vaccination situation yesterday – and that it is not possible without a test strategy. If I say everyone is clear, I also think that everyone in the culture I want to focus on now is clear. It also accepts that the job opportunities are limited or are not at all available. When I say that everyone accepts this, I mean the staff of the cultural companies, but I also mean the audience. The audience also understands that there is a singular disaster situation that needs to be responded to. Nobody expects it either, so at least no one from the people I have worked with in recent years and I know well that it will start right now. But what everyone expects is that when it goes away, it is also fair and fair and that the framework conditions are right. In this context, I would like to make a motion for a resolution, and this motion for a resolution follows the idea that the clarification of the law, which we are adopting today, will then require a more precise regulation to ensure that this clarification goes in the right direction through the regulation. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think one thing has to be said about the fight against pandemic: It will succeed if we succeed in creating compliance and creating trust. If I look at how it is currently going on the local roads and what the motion data shows, then there is no compliance right now. I believe that through a good regulation, which makes it clear and maintains fairness, we can at least restore this compliance in individual areas. To do something without explaining why, and without having any evidence, no one will accept it, even in culture. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[13:37]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9224	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, it is properly put in place and is therefore also under negotiation. Mr Josef Smolle has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9251	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Belakovich, I may be able to clarify the misunderstanding: It's not like you meant that 50 percent of the asymptomatics are contagious, but Anthony Fauci said that up to 50 percent of the infections come from asymptomatics. There is an essential point, and there are, of course, studies to ensure that asymptomatic persons are contagious, and in particular there is very concrete evidence that people who are asymptomatic and then suffer from illness can even be particularly contagious in the next few days. [[Abg. Belakovich: That's not asymptomatic!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] That is why I would like to say that the proclamation of the message: As long as you are not ill, you cannot infect anyone and are not a danger!, a dangerous and dangerous frivolous statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9292	Mrs Dagmar Belakovich spoke on an actual amendment. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9319	Mr Smolle, in turn, explained that 50 percent of the infections come from asymptomatics. - That's wrong. [[Call the ÖVP: He didn't say that!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] - He already said that. You didn't listen to him. So that's not right. There are many studies that prove this. There is the WHO that has said this since June. The explanation that Prof. Smolle then gave is unfortunately a false one, because people who develop symptoms two days later are not asymptomatic, but presymptomatic – that is something quite different – and presymptomatics are then persons for contact tracking.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9359	The next speaker is Mr Dietmar Keck. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9389	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that every Member of this House takes decisions in this House, which are for the benefit of the Austrians. And I think the well-being we need to have in mind is that every Austrian and every Austrian survives this pandemic as healthy as possible. I think we are here to enforce decisions here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is needed to ensure that the Austrians survive this pandemic as healthy as possible? – It is necessary to test, test, test and test again. That's what our party president Pamela Rendi-Wagner has been saying since April, May. So we should do it. And the second thing that comes now is vaccination, vaccination, vaccination and vaccination, so that we can manage to face this pandemic. [[Abg. Worm: But the workers too!]] One thing must be said to the opponents of these test strategies and to the opponents of this vaccination strategy: If these opponents tell me the corona pandemic is equal to a flu, then I can only answer: I don't know any flu wave that lasts over a year when there's a dead person a week and we don't know how to get hold of her. Therefore, it is necessary to do it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Because it is necessary to test, I was interested in how the test strategies work in the countries, and I looked at all the homepages of the state governments in Austria. I have seen how many test roads there are where the Austrians can do free tests. A question of price, a question of estimate: How many, do you think, are there in Austria? - 48! There are only 48 test roads where the Austrians can do free tests to see if they are positive or negative, ladies and gentlemen. Some of these test roads have only been opened from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. That is, a normal professional does not have the opportunity to visit these test roads to do free tests there. He is forced to take a test that he has to pay to the doctor so that he knows whether he is negative or not. I then looked at this situation in particular in some federal countries and would like to read about the homepage of the country of Styria. The country of Styria writes: ‘No free cross-sectional antigen fast tests are currently being offered in the Styria.’ In other words, we even have federal states that do not offer any test roads so that people can go there free of charge. I also looked at this for my home country, for Upper Austria, and found that the Federal State of Upper Austria has five test roads for 15 districts and three statutory cities. There are five test roads in the whole of Upper Austria, with individuals sometimes having to drive 60 kilometers and further to get to a test road. I think that we should start by ensuring that these test roads are available in each district, that these test roads can be used free of charge by any Austrian, Austrian or Austrian. The next thing I looked at, ladies and gentlemen, was the vaccination. On the homepage of Upper Austria I have learned how many Upper Austrians can be vaccinated in January. There it says: Upper Austria receives one sixth of the vaccine doses available in Austria. “As a result of the limited number of doses of vaccine, only about 30 percent of over 80 years of age can be supplied with the vaccine with the currently available quota”. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, what do you mean? – If only about 30 percent of the over 80-year-olds in a federal state can be supplied with the vaccine, this means that the remaining 70 percent will be exposed to the risk that they may die from this corona virus because we do not have the vaccine doses at hand and in the corresponding number in the federal states. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is necessary to do something. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It must be possible that anyone who wants to be vaccinated can also be vaccinated. And the cans are there! We got 60,000 doses at the start. That means, high up with the vaccinations I can draw from them, that would have been – at times six – 360 000 vaccinations. The second 60 000 came a few days later, and now they are supposed to come daily. That means it's enough available, but we've got to make sure it happens. And these mistakes, which are being made here by the government, by the state governments, ladies and gentlemen, belong to the fastest, but really positively done. That means it's the most necessary thing for you to take care of it. Each Austrian and every Austrian must have the opportunity, if it is necessary for him to be able to do these tests at any time free of charge and in his nearer surroundings. And every Austrian and every Austrian must have the opportunity to be vaccinated free of charge, when it is possible for him and when he really needs it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9444	The next speaker is Mr Laurenz Pöttinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9468	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! To my previous speaker, because just by chance the talk of Upper Austria was: Mr Keck, you know very well that there is a global run on the vaccines. We're doing what we can, and it's not like the vaccines aren't being vaccinated and we don't have them in the country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: This is unheard of! You did everything right, didn't you?- Oh, my God!]] Today, we will probably decide on two agenda items by a broad majority. This is, on the one hand, the cost of software implementation of the electronic vaccination for doctors and, on the other hand, the cost replacement for countries and communities for the actual costs of testing and vaccination. [[Abg. Worm: Unanimously!]] – Yes, surprisingly, even with the votes of the FPÖ. However, item 3 has been providing very high waves for many days. [[Abg. Worm: Well!]] This legal change is probably considered to be an opportunity for the population to regain a little normality, and as an opportunity to revitalize the economy in sub-areas. Thank you to all the Members who will vote in favour of this motion today. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Now one more word for harmonizing the Corona crisis, especially the FPÖ Group and all those people in our country who are promoting polarization in our country with half-truths and untruths. [[Abg. Belakovich: Here you can take the ÖVP wing right away!]] In my speech yesterday, I reported on the mortality, the tables sent around, which were obviously created by Coronaleugners who lack any basis. And as the coincidence wants, I got an APA message today at 9.35 p.m., and it confirms my assumption that you doubted yesterday. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I chose the record of my speech. I said yesterday that the mortality rate in 2020 is about 10 percent. That's what the protocol says: “Applause” and then “Interruption of the Abg. Worm. - Abg. Belarusian: How do you know that? How do you know that? How do you know that? – You just know it because you’re saying it!” – That’s black on white here in the record. That's what you said yesterday. [[Abg. Belakovich: You didn't answer it to me, how you know it!]] Today there is the APA message, there are about 11 percent. I'm so sorry. It is far too much, and you know exactly that the corona crisis with it - - - I have read it all, Mrs Colleague! [[Abg. Belakovich: You need to read the APA message all the way down so you know what's going on!]] I would also like to say one thing about your actual corrections. People at home probably don't know that you can't correct an actual correction – and be so wrong and yet half true. [[Abg. Belakovich: Oh yes!]] - No, you can't! At least this is the statement of our club that you can't do that; in a word message yes, but no more than correction. [[Abg. Belakovich: No, you can do that at any time!]] They make themselves here instructive and mix topics and call statements from the WHO that come from May. [[Abg. Belakovich: June!]] The current numbers of our experts who ignore you. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9629	Mrs. Dr. Susanne Prince. - Please, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Dr. Fürst, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9653	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I have to thank Klubobmann Wöginger and also all other ÖVP delegates that you are constantly directing us from this place that there are reasonable people in the FPÖ with whom you can work well. Thank you. [[Abg. Stögmüller: I haven't found her yet!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I really have to apologise here for not responding to it, because I have to give you the compliment at last. [[Abg. Wöginger: The least are sitting here!]] There are also reasonable people in the ÖVP with whom you can work. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Really, there is also enough with you who do not share this crashlockdown policy at all. Of course, one does not experience this in here, but outside the corridor or under four eyes. So, please, I'd like to give the compliment back. Mr Klubobmann, if you also envy the liberal clubman around his kickl troupe, as you say: Yes, there is not everyone there to have a political talent, a rhetorical talent, the ability to trigger enthusiasm in people, but you will also learn it. [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Try it again, keep talking here, maybe there may also be a Wöginger troupe in your sector, I would be glad. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] But finish these ridiculous words that every member of the ÖVP who comes out here must always say, Good Cops, Bad Cops at the FPÖ, that's just ridiculous. [[Abg. Wöginger: That's what's busy with you, yes!]] National Council President Wolfgang Sobotka, in his New Year's letter to MEPs, noted that there was an increase in anti-democratic tendencies. – Again, a reasonable voice from the ranks of the ÖVP, because yes, I can only fully agree with it. The rest of the letter is not coherent, but let's not say about it. But all the corona legislation, the laws that are passed here by the government parties – and, unfortunately, most of them with the voice of the SPÖ – and the regulations of the Minister of Health are anti-democratic and go in the completely wrong direction. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is a constitutional corona special law regime, as also referred to by a constitutional expert. Whoever believes the promises that all of this will be put out of power again, these completely overwhelming and oppressive measures, is naïve. Whoever believes the promise that, just as the Federal Chancellor has announced, all of this will no longer apply if it is reviewed by the Constitutional Court, it is said: Don't do that! Why are these measures, including those adopted here today, not just included in the Covid-19 Act? There's actually a term in there. No, everything is included in the epidemic law in parallel, which then applies indefinitely. That is to say, all these measures go into the applicable law and can then be repacked at any time in completely different cases than Corona. The SPÖ is there everywhere, I am without words; even at the remarks today. There one complains of the rising unemployment rate. The fact that this may be in some way connected with the lockdown policy should also be understood. In any case today, with this so-called entry test scheme, another building block of the anti-democratic wall that is being built around us is added. This is unconstitutional, which belongs to the many previous regulations. According to the explanations, it is said that people who realize a low epidemiological risk may go to the streets, so to speak, or even enter the public space at all. But these are those who have, under this law, a negative test. Please, people who emit a low epidemiological risk are all healthy, so the lockdown must be stopped immediately and all measures against healthy, symptomatic people must be lifted! These rules contradict the fundamental rights of our constitution, the principle of legality. We have a much too great accumulation of competences for executives, they contradict personal freedom of movement, freedom of employment and property. People should, as it were, be solidified in solidarity. We actually have a right to medical self-determination and freedom of expression, but if you only criticise these measures, you are immediately split and polarizing. We do not participate in this national round against fundamental rights, against the Constitution. Fundamental rights were created as a protection against the attacks of the state, the Constitution as a protection against the fantasies of power politicians. We must make sure that the Constitution is respected. Lockdown and excessive measures are already permitted by law only when the health system is in danger of collapse. That's not the case. If there are numbers that cannot be achieved at all, incidence values that have already been fulfilled due to the error rate of the tests, or if it means that measures must already be taken if 200 coronaintensive patients are in hospitals, so there we are really already in the irrational area. Therefore: Stop these excessive measures!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9767	Dr. Dagmar Belakovich spoke about an actual correction. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9795	Mr President. Mr Pöttinger said in his speech that he has no way of responding to an actual correction – if he does not like it, although what I say is correct. I would like to tell you, Mr Pöttinger, that is wrong. You have, of course, according to § 58 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, if I address you, you have the opportunity, as a consul, to accept an actual correction at any time. [[Call: But that's something else]] – That’s nothing else, because Mr Pöttinger can correct what I would have said wrong. - Point one. Point two. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – Of course this is still an actual correction! Mr Pöttinger has also claimed that this would have been so long ago by the WHO, namely in May. – That’s right, that’s already from spring, i.e. from June, but the study from Innsbruck is quite new, from December 2020. In December 2020, in the Innsbruck study, it was observed that symptoms do not result from infections. Many more recent scientific studies do not exist.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9832	Mr Christoph Starkzu has also referred to an actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9860	Mr President. High house! In contrast to Mrs Belakovich, who has a permanent subscription to actual corrections, this is my first point. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Mr Keck claimed that there was no way in Styria to be tested free of charge. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] – I’m actually correcting: At six locations, including in my hometown, the town of Gleisdorf, there is the possibility to be tested free of charge from Monday to Friday from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Fridays even until 8 p.m. on Saturdays and until 12 p.m. on Saturdays, probably until the end of May. [[Abg. Mr Matznetter: Mr President!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9920	The next speaker is Mrs Martina Diesner-Wais. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9949	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! At the heart of our hearts, we don't all want to be able to live a normal life again, that people can work actively in the businesses, that our children can go back to everyday school, that we can experience leisure activities with culture, sports in the clubs, and that we can just keep social contacts again? How do we get there? – By getting the infection under control by stopping the transmission. We all know – it is also confirmed worldwide –: On-site testing and vaccination, this is the strategy we are coming next to it, so we are discussing it today. In the course of this, I would like to thank the people and organizations very much and give them the foreground, which have already carried out tests and brought them well on stage for the benefit of the general public. I should like to highlight the Blue Light Organizations, the Federal Army and the volunteers, women and men, in the communities. With the law and this novel, we are now making an adjustment to the expenses incurred for the countries and communities. Especially the countries and communities, which provide infrastructure and personnel for testing and vaccination, are doing truly valuable work at this time, beyond their everyday tasks. That is why they need these resources in particular. I am also pleased that this law holds out that there will now also be operational tests for everyone, because they also make a big contribution. Clearly, our goal is to bridge this phase until we have enough vaccine for all Austrians. For this, tests are the best way to keep the infection numbers as low as possible. That is why I am glad that the SPÖ is voting here today, because we are able to gradually get back to normal life, that we can visit events from art and culture to sport, and that professional groups that perform services close to the body have the opportunity to resume their activities. Unfortunately, there are not only many false reports in the social media, but also here. If you make actual corrections and don't really say the right thing, it won't be more correct even if you say it more often. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not think it is fair that the people of the FPÖ are being held together at this time when it is really important to keep them together so that we can get through this crisis as soon as possible so that we can resume our normal and economic life. At the beginning of the pandemic, we longed for tests and vaccinations, because they did not exist at the time. Thanks to science and research, we received it relatively quickly. Now I would like to appeal: Let's use them too! Vaccination and testing are simply the best contribution anyone can make at this time.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9990	I call Mr Dietmar Keck. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10014	Mr President. My two Federal Ministers! I could now make a personal response to the actual correction of the Mr Stark, who said that I would have claimed that the country of Styria has no free test lines. I have not said anything, Mr Stark, but you should be more careful about what the speakers are saying at the speaker's desk. I quoted from the Homepage of the State of Styria. I read again from the homepage of the country of Styria. Everyone can look. There it says: ‘No free cross-sectional antigen fast tests are currently being offered in the Styria.’ If that's not true, then you have to deal with the country of Styria, that you are spreading the false information that you do not offer it to its citizens in the Styria, but please don't go out there and say that a MP has made a false claim.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10050	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. Before we go into the voting process, do I ask the clubs if a session break is desirable? – That is not the case either. We therefore come to the votes which I shall take separately from each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft federal law amending the General Social Security Act, including title and receipt in 626 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This too is unanimous, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft federal law amending the 1950 Epidemic Act and the Covid-19 Act in 629 of the Supplements. To this end, Members Gabriela Schwarz, Kucher, Schallmeiner, colleagues and others have tabled an additional amendment or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Kucher, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr President, have tabled an additional or amendment concerning Articles 1 and 2. Who is for this, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a positive sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is also the majority, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Gerhard Kaniak, colleagues on ‘Free movement of persons on Covid-19’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Philip Kucher, Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schallmeiner, and others, on the rapid extension of public free-of-charge corona testing facilities. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. The motion for a resolution is therefore adopted by a majority. [[132/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rudolf Silvan, Mr Josef Schellhorn, colleagues on 'Effective economic aid for the first quarter of 2021'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues on the ban on covid-19 forced testing and vaccination. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Thomas Drozda, colleagues on ‘After the lockdown: Making culture possible and setting a realistic environment.” I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft federal law amending the COVID-19 Exchange Grant Act into 627 of the Supplements. To this end, Members Gabriela Schwarz, Keck, Schalmeiner, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the amendment concerned and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Keck, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr President, have tabled an amendment on paragraph 2. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This too is the majority, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 628 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. The agenda is exhausted. [[14:09:27]] Short debate on the written reply to the question 4066/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10314	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for the Interior with the order number 4066/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Member Michael Schnedlitza's applicant to open the debate. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10351	Mr President. Mr. Nehammer! [[Abg. Pfurtscheller:... Mr Minister! ... respect!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Failure, concealing, not answering requests, and in this case all of this for self-evident purpose to stay in the ministry – yes, it is again about the team of short, ladies and gentlemen, in this case specifically about Mr Nehammer. [[Abg. Ottenschlager: Federal Minister!]] [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: Minister of State!]] This is the Turkish minister, in which also terrorists – also the one from the 2nd century. November, which is the subject of the debate on the answer to the question – freedom of the fools, as well as the true criminals, are free of fools, while persecuting the righteous people with full hardness. Mr Nehammer, in all clarity: They are persecuting the wrong-doers in this land. You must pursue those who endanger the security of the Austrians and not those who criticize the chancellor's misguided policy! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Melchior.]] The police are not here for that. I would also like to say the following very clearly: Stop using our police for the fight, that is, those who don't worship your sundial anymore! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Is incredible!]] If you were going to deal with real criminals and terrorists, we would have a lot less problems in this country and then the cowardly attack would have been on 2nd. November can be prevented, and – I am telling you that in all clarity – he should have been prevented. Just a few hours after the attack, it was clear that you as an interior minister have completely failed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Melchior.]] To this day, and that's really abominable, the victims' survivors are waiting for an excuse for your part. You haven't even made it to this day to a lip confession, and I also have to tell you openly: The only honest excuse would be Their resignation was already immediately after the attack. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Melchior.]] Instead, you have launched the largest cover-up in the history of the Second Republic. You've worked with false debt allocations. I remember: The Minister of Justice is to blame, the Kickl is to blame, the Slovaks are to blame. Everyone was to blame, only the Minister of the Interior had nothing to do with the Ministry of the Interior. [[Abg. Melchior: The assassin in the first place! The suspect's to blame, no one else!]] [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: The assassin...!]] You have deliberately spread false information here in Parliament during your speech and also at press conferences and in the media. You have covered, and this cover continues to this day by simply not answering requests from Members. Ladies and gentlemen, this is inconceivable because the survivors of the victims, but also the Austrians, have a right to the truth and to answers. This turquoise thread of covering goes through to this day, it is inconceivable! In this House, countless Members, not only from the Liberal Group, but also from other political groups, have asked questions about the terrorist attack, questions to find out why the attack was not prevented, as it could have been because a system in the Ministry of the Interior failed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I too have raised several questions here in the question we are discussing today to you, Mr Internal Minister, such as: “How was the exact flow of information between Slovak and Austrian authorities in relation to the attempt by [...] to acquire “in Slovakia [...]” – the later defendant? “ Another question: “Is it correct that [...]” – the terrorist – “on the basis of this information could have been removed from traffic before the attack?” – We know today, ladies and gentlemen, the answer would be yes. But you did not give this answer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have not answered any question of this question. I have also submitted a second request on this subject, with 118 questions, and of these 118 questions you have not answered any one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer]] Other Members have also raised questions, and you have not answered a question in part, even in the case of other Members' questions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Melchior.]] It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that I can answer the question because the research of various media, but also of the opposition, has led to the fact that at least part of the truth has come to light. It is clear that you were informed in July about the attempted purchase of the ammunition and the weapon. You should have intervened, acted, then it would not have come to this gentle attack! Other questions still remain unanswered. I can only tell you: Such an answer to the questions as You have returned them here, you simply can't take note of them. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They do not only comply with your job, which is to protect the Austrian population from real criminals, they also do not comply with your job in this house, refuse to answer requests. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager]] I say to you right now, before your opinion: Save You have two excuses that I am going to reject right now. [[Abg. Hörl: A light-seer!]] Save yourself to say that you would not have answered the questions because they are related to the investigations! There are several questions that you have not answered – proven and understandable for everyone – although they do not have the least to do with the investigations. Save You have the second excuse that you would have set up an investigative committee anyway, because this investigative committee does not debine you from your job to answer requests from this House. I don't know how to get to the idea of finding excuses why you don't have to answer questions instead of doing the job in this house. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hörl: Hell seer!]] Ladies and gentlemen, for this reason I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] She can't even because you didn't answer a single question! And I'll tell you again: Save You are the excuses I have already rejected in advance! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, I also say something to you: Stop that cover-up! The people have a right to reply, the Members have a right to reply, our country has a right to the truth. But through your ministerial career this failure and this attitude and this non-work goes like a turquoise thread. You just can't do your job in this office anymore. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Since you are even going so far as to attack the fundamental rights of the Austrian population, for example by prohibiting demonstrations and thus taking the right to demonstrate to the Austrian population, I also tell you: In the conflicts between Turks and Kurds in Vienna favorites, at the Krawalldemos, the demonstration was allowed by the ÖVP without any problems. You know why? – Because it wasn’t about the sun chancellor short! [[Call the ÖVP: Please!]] Just allow the righteous people to represent their rights and express their opinion without abuse and intervention by the police! [[Interlocutors Gabriela Schwarz and Melchior.]] I tell you, Minister of the Interior: You've already done enough damage. This system, in short, and what you have done here in office, is no longer portable! Don't continue to damage this office! Abuses Don't go on with this office! Don't continue to endanger Austrian security! They are busy persecuting righteous citizens instead of taking care of the real criminals. Show character, follow your Minister Aschbacher and finally step back!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10611	On a point of view, Mr Karl Nehammer, Federal Minister, spoke. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10632	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home in front of the most diverse devices! Perhaps just a short replica on Deputies Schnedlitz because of his emotionality and excitement here at the speaker's desk: Perhaps I need to clarify a misunderstanding, honourable Member. In my reality, you are not my opponent. My opponents are terrorists, extremists, criminals, tugs. It is against these, together with the police, to fight with the staff of the Ministry of the Interior, with full force – and that is what we do. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] On the question of answering parliamentary questions: In fact, this is always a major challenge for the staff of the Ministries. I would just like to point out: The Ministry of the Interior answered 672 parliamentary requests in 2020. At this point I would like to express my great thanks to the staff of the Ministry of the Interior, who do so with due diligence in order to comply with the obligation of information to Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on Green MEPs.]] In his excitement, Mr Schnedlitz has also repeatedly stated that there is too little transparency. [[Abg. Belakovich: None at all!]] – The opposite is the case. Within less than 48 hours, the Ministry of the Interior, together with the Ministry of Justice, has been speaking together with the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice, to set up the Commission for Investigation, with the clear aim of immediately providing for clarifications where errors have actually occurred, in order to achieve what is particularly important for the Ministry of the Interior, when it comes to rebuilding the protection of the Constitution. [[Abg. Belakovich: Concealing Commission!]] We are in the middle of this process, even to get more basics to avoid mistakes in the future as much as possible. This Commission of Inquiry has already submitted an interim report. Perhaps your group has not informed you about this, Mr President. He can be seen in two ways: public on the one hand, by being presented and, on the other hand, you may not have known that, Mr Deputies, but perhaps you can still exchange places, I would be pleased to welcome you to the Standing Subcommittee. There, in fact, Members have the opportunity to exchange views with the President of the Commission and to ask the questions which are important to them, for one thing is clear: This federal government is very, very worthy of parliamentary control. I myself was a Member of this House, and I am therefore aware that the right to question is important, because especially when one shows mistakes, one can learn from it. The President of the Commission will answer all questions tomorrow. Why does this require the Standing Subcommittee? – Because the report and the finding of errors or errors have, of course, also resulted in the evaluation of sensitive data, partly also of documents from partner services et cetera. That means that must be subject to secrecy. You claim that I have some interest in concealing all the essential issues you have just addressed – quite the contrary. I also invite all viewers: Read the interim report, which, from the point of view of a very profound Commission, reflects clearly and clearly how the processes were, from the discharge from the sides of justice to – unfortunately – the terrible terrorist attack. He goes on to ask – the final report is coming to the end of January – how best to prepare himself if one leads the joint fight against terrorism and extremism, in order to make it clear again. One question you have raised, Mr Schnedlitz, is very interesting: You have said that we would suppress freedom of expression – I really think this is an unreasonable accusation among the many you have presented here today. Quite frankly – I was also a Secretary-General –: The form and style of how you use it remains yours, but I am grateful that Parliament's meetings are held in public, so that those who decide who is sitting in here – the electorate – can make a real picture of the political culture of such a group here. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] But now to the really devastating remark that we would not protect fundamental and freedom rights. [[Abg. Lush: Never, the Good!]] – Mr deputies, try calling even louder, you are not heard on television, but if you shout louder, you may be able to do so. [[Abg. Lausch: How embarrassing are you?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Belakovich:... certainly not a Secretary-General!]] So if it comes to the accusation that the police are suppressing fundamental and freedom rights, Mr Schnedlitz, I strongly reject it! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schnedlitz.]] The police do their heavy duty every day, whether it be to enforce the corona measures, whether it be to carry out border security, or to fight terrorists. Yes, success has been achieved in recent weeks. Remember that we have done a decisive blow against the Muslim Brotherhood and against Hamas! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] And yes, I deeply regret it and say here in this plenary that the Freedom Party with its clubman at the head of this operation would almost have threatened it; yet it has succeeded in meeting the Muslim Brotherhood and also Hamas on a sustainable basis. [[Interlocutory calls from Deimek and Schmijdlechner.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Stay with the truth!]] On the other hand, an important blow against the right-wing extreme scene has also been achieved. Yeah, we're living in dangerous times, that's right. We have to deal with radicals, be it jihadists who bring terror to our streets, whether it be the armed right-wing scene, where we have to be vigilant and put all energy into pulling out actual violent perpetrators. All of this is done by the police you're talking about and who you're trying to get into such a shaky light. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Schnedlitz.]] The really bad thing about it is: The basic understanding of the police is the protection of fundamental and freedom rights. [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] . I think, Mr President, if you try even louder, people at home will actually be able to hear you too. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Lausch: You are the most embarrassing interior minister of all time!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Stay with the truth!]] The police are on the side of citizens, and it stands for fundamental and freedom rights, but if the security authority – which is now a very important point – considers that applicants of a meeting or demonstration deliberately do not comply with security measures, that is, consciously endanger the health of people, then that is not a question of discretion, but a question of assessment and a decision that the security authority must actually prohibit such a demonstration, such a assembly. Yes, the police are now day out, dayin, when it comes to these missions, even more demanding, but look at the balance sheet, look at the last weekend, how many demonstrations have been carried out with the protection of the police because they protect fundamental and freedom rights! The premise that she's not doing that is unstoppable. There was also the accusation that the police would be abused – these are just officials who would not carry out an illegal order at all. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes!]] [[Abg. Listen:... bound by wisdom!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schnedlitz.]] – You know they wouldn’t! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen here in the House, my confidence in the police is obviously much greater than that of the FPÖ Group. I am grateful for the service of the police, and yes, we will continue to fight against extremes, against extremes that endanger the security and order of this Republic. We will continue to fight against terrorists, and we will continue to fight against organised crime and tow. We will fight crime, that is our task, that is our commitment. This is best followed by the police – especially the police and also the employees of the security administration.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10868	Mr Karl Mahrer has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10893	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! Mr Schnedlitz, the request made today by you and some Members to hold a debate on the written reply of the FPÖ's request of 10. In my view, November by the Minister of the Interior is, of course, a legitimate concern, not a question at all. In the light of your speech, however, this is for me a rather unnecessary and incomprehensible delay and extension of our parliamentary day. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] [[Abg. Listen, Mr Mahrer, go home. Unsolicited work!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Mr Schnedlitz, your speech was actually a technical one in many areas of false and inconsistency. For example, you have told us that you can answer all questions, because you have media reports and opposition searches at hand. – Mr Schnedlitz, this is your kind of political understanding, which is not mine. [[Abg. Belakovich: No, you want to hide!]] This is proof of the sad state of the Austrian Freedom Party for many of the FPÖ Members. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] The Minister of the Interior has already referred in the written reply not only to the legal boundaries where requests for answers are not possible due to the ongoing investigation procedure, but also to the work of the Commission of Inquiry. He's done this today. Within 48 hours the independent Commission of Inquiry was set up, within a month the presentation of an interim report was carried out, so, as the Federal Minister of Justice has done, an immediate presentation of the interim report, which is very critical, very detailed and very extensive, can be seen on the home page of the Ministry of the Interior, for every woman, for every man. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, he couldn't cover it up anymore!]] That is the transparency of the Minister of the Interior. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] The Minister for the Interior, ladies and gentlemen, also refers to the competence of the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on the Interior, and this, Mr Schnedlitz, is the right forum. [[Abg. Belakovich:...! All citizens have a right to information!]] It is also possible to discuss in detail in this Subcommittee the particularly sensitive matter of combating terrorism due to the obligation of secrecy. Mr Schnedlitz, do you know why this happened so quickly? – That is why, among other things, the Minister of the Interior, after the presentation of the interim report, also asked for the subcommittee to be convened. That, Minister of the Interior, is respect for Parliament. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] So you see, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of the Interior has done everything to allow for an independent clarification of the processes surrounding the terrorist attack. It has brought about the first necessary human consequences, it is intensively concerned with the current BAT reform, and it is constantly informing the population and Parliament and at all times about the events, the current events and investigations. However, you, Mr Schnedlitz – once I have to come to you – may not have read the report or not read it completely, because if you had read it, you would see many of your questions – including those you have asked today – answered. I therefore recommend that you study this interim report. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] In particular, I also recommend that you take a close look at the summary, because the independent committee of inquiry comes to a conclusion, a summary and a basic statement, and I would like to quote it again for you all - you have certainly read it many times - once again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan]] A quote, ladies and gentlemen, from the independent committee of inquiry: “It will never be possible to determine the reactions of the authorities to the developments of K.F.,” – that is the perpetrator – “which are now brought together retrospectingly, in what way in K.F. I would have liked to say that I am very pleased to have been able to do so. None of the identified weaknesses in the flow of information, no delay can be found only approximately as causal for the attack of 2nd. ==References====External links== I therefore make it very briefly, Mr Schnedlitz: Let Mr Kickl – who is not in the Chamber now – who in his time as Minister of the Interior has severely damaged the BAT and so many of the state's Office for Constitutional Protection, do not continue to drive into insanity! [[Abg. Lausch: Have done good work!]] [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] I recommend that you vote a little better with the members of the FPÖ in the subcommittee. I shall now also bring the report back to you. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign again.]] Perhaps I can still hand it over as a small contribution to more materiality in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11052	The next speaker is Member of Parliament. Reinhold Einwallner. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11084	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! Helmut Schmidt once said: The true character appears in the crisis. How to deal with a crisis situation shows a lot about the character, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, we have seen for eleven months a seemingly bad crisis management of this federal government in the health crisis. Minister of the Interior, your crisis management in this serious and terrible attack was not what I expect from a Minister of the Interior. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] On the contrary: You have not only shown that you have character weaknesses, but also revealed that you cannot assume responsibility and shift responsibility. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] – Dear August Wöinger, I am still coming to the weaknesses of the Minister of the Interior, you have a little patience, I am still coming. [[Abg. Wöginger: The Vorarlbergers are usually serious politicians, yes!]] – Mr Wöginger, we can then continue to discuss this in a conversation. Be quiet in calls! Then don't be so different from the FPÖ anymore. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Your level no longer!]] If we look at the answer to this question: That is exactly what it is about responsibility and what it is about transparency, because if you take responsibility, you also have to communicate transparently. What you are doing here is to disregard this House's right of integration, ladies and gentlemen. Such an answer must simply not be. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and NEOS, as well as members of the FPÖ.]] This is a flight from responsibility as it seeks to do. Mr Mahrer and you, Mr Minister, stand up and say: Yes, this report by the Commission of Inquiry, which we have already published. – What is true of this statement? Only after the Minister of Justice had published her part, hours later, did you come to the idea of also publishing the report of the Ministry of the Interior! That is the truth and these are the facts about this report, even if you are different. Hours later there was only the publication of the report of the Ministry of the Interior. Then an OTS message was moved very quickly that you would like to have a subcommittee. First, you wanted to keep the report secret and then bring it into the intelligence committee. The day after this terrible attack, Mr. Minister, you still played out as if you had led this commitment. There you were mediatically present as if you were the head of this mission, but after that you only informed the public more discrepancy. Just more of what the opposition had already revealed, what media had revealed, you then slowly admitted, disks for disks. This list – Mr Wöginger, I can list it to you – begins with the fact that it is impossible to explain to this day why this suspect was not on the police's screen after he was released from prison. This list can be continued: Why did he want to buy ammunition in Slovakia? Because you're asking about the mistakes that happen in the Ministry of the Interior: That too was a mistake of the Ministry of the Interior that appeared. I can still carry it on: It only happened last week that the defendant had no weapons ban. That was another mistake of this resort. It is a resort that has been in the hands of the ÖVP for 20 years, so push You're not responsible! [[Consistency with SPÖ and FPÖ as well as with the Abg. Scherak.]] I am therefore on the question of character and how to deal with a crisis. While you are only dispensing information about the faults of the Ministry of the Interior, you were at one point quite quickly: A few days after the attack, you knew that the errors in the judicial sector and the Minister of Justice were: Putting off guilt immediately, making debt allocations, then you were suddenly quick, and there we are again with the character and how to deal with a crisis. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, a responsible approach to a crisis situation looks quite different. The responsible management of a resort looks quite different. You can't do it, Minister. Stage alone will not help us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] The production also helps the many police officers who do a good job out on the street every day, nothing. They need an interior minister who understands the business and who behaves accordingly. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] What you have offered here today or offer with this answer to the question is anything other than what you should have as a former Member of Parliament on claims, because you would probably have valued the fact that at least one question is answered in a question reply. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign again.]] But now you get another chance, because there is still a request whose answer is still open.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11187	That's the end of the sentence, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11202	I am ready, Mr President. There is one more question, whose answer is open, a question to our group on the incidents surrounding the second. November. You may then be able to correct the mistake you made in answering Mr Schnedlitz's question. I hope we'll find some answers when we answer the question. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11232	Mr Amesbauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11260	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yes, there are inadequate responses to questions, such as this one on the occasion of Mr Schnedlitz's question on the terrorist attack in Vienna. November of the previous year shows. This is just an example of many. You are a serial non-responsor of parliamentary inquiries. I looked at it a little bit on the basis of inquiries I made. For example, I noticed a request when at the end of October around 50 Turkish-born young people ransacked in the Antonskirche in Vienna. For example, I asked questions like: How many people were there? What citizenship did these people have? What status of residence do these persons have? Have these persons or individuals already been known in advance of the police? Do they possibly have contacts with other radical Islamist groups? You didn't answer that. These were a total of 22 concrete questions, of which you did not answer any one, with excuses such as ongoing investigation, confidentiality and data protection, ladies and gentlemen. This is adventurous when I ask questions where a conclusion to a single person is not at all possible, because I did not know that person at all and therefore did not ask for a name, and then you hide behind the data protection. This is adventurous, this is an abuse of data protection! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the same time, however, you have no problem with today's mandatory access tests for various areas of public life and then have receptionists, waiters or organizers controlled. This is about personal health data, and data protection doesn't matter. In the case of foreign young people who are marginalizing, or even in the case of offenders, hide However, if you have any questions about the status of residence and citizenship behind the data protection. This is a pattern of concealment, concealment and cover-up, and of course we have seen it in the terrorist attack, ladies and gentlemen. You have already referred to this interim report of the Commission of Inquiry. I must say that we have seen the Commission's establishment very, very critically, still do so because it has been put together by you together with the Justice and you have installed a Nehammer Cleansing Commission. But it has to be said – and this has surprised me very positively – that the interim report of this Nehammer Commission has not managed to clean up Nehammer because the facts are so oppressive and so clear. In the interim report, it is clear that the BAT was the crystallisation point of the failure in the run-up to the attack. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Melchior.]] This is black and white in the Commission's interim report under Zerbes. It is also clear, in turn, that we have been saying for months, that is known, everyone knows, no one can deny it in this country – and in this interim report it is clear that the terrorist attack should have been prevented if the authorities had worked properly. [[Call the ÖVP:Well go!]] And it is also expressed, and we have long criticized that there is a climate of mutual distrust in the BAT. [[Abg. Wöginger: That's what the kickl did!]] – That didn’t make the kickl, it’s a mistake, and that’s not what it says in the interim report. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] There are not enough qualified persons in leadership positions, and this is due to the ÖVP party policy, the black networks in the BVT over many, many years, almost 20 years. These are the facts, and everything else – Mr Wöginger can talk so much between them – are fakenews and shudder fairy tales, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One thing I have to say in this context: Minister Nehammer, I do not understand how you came up with the idea that he would have claimed that the police are going against the fundamental rights of the citizens. He did not say that at all in his speech. Rather, cut-off They continue to abuse the fundamental rights of citizens and now abuse the BAT, which we have just spoken about, for the fact that government-critical demonstrations are being disqualified and disqualified as a right-wing, as a threat to democracy, possibly with potential for violence – and this is based on the BAT’s assessment. It is particularly exciting that those authorities who have not managed to prevent a terrorist attack are discrediting peaceful citizens who exercise their constitutionally guaranteed right to assembly freedom. This is the attack on fundamental rights, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And this is due to the BAT's assessment that it has not managed to get a terrorist out of traffic in good time. You have also said you do so much, your opponents are not any people, nor are we liberals and not the citizens. - Yes, I believe you do. But you also said that your opponents are the terrorists. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: It's out!]] I don't think so because you haven't done anything since the terrorist attack, and you haven't done anything about border protection. In the 14 days of this year alone, 590 illegal immigrants were registered and some 14 000 asylum applications were submitted in 2020. So much on the subject: The boundaries are closed. Businesses and public life are dense, but not our state borders for illegal immigrants.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11358	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Georg Bürstmayr. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11393	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm a little confused after my previous speaker's speech, because I don't know what it's about anymore; about borders, about asylum, about Covid, about demos? I feel a little like in a budget-general debate. [[Abg. Deimek: Then you have to watch a little!]] I think I can remember that it is a request from the Freedom Party of the 10th century. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I can understand you're on the 10th. November had a lot of questions, even if you had to know at the time that a Minister of the Interior was in some cases not allowed to answer these questions, because this information was subject to confidentiality for good reason. This is not about any subsidies for a trombone orchestra in the Waldviertel, but about the most sensitive authority in the Republic. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I can understand, even if you and your current head of the club as the then Minister of the Interior have been seriously and sustainably damaged by this authority, our intelligence service in its time of office. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] What I can no longer understand is that today, three weeks after the publication of the Interim Report of the Independent Investigation Commission, you will be holding a show here as if you had not read a line from this report. To this independent committee of inquiry, we have passed Greens and quickly enforced them together with the ÖVP because Austria has a right to know whether there has been a mistake, whether there have been defects in the procedures, whether there have been or are shortcomings in the structure of the BAT. The Commission has provided answers. This report has been published, it is available, and the Commission has gone as far as it can, without endangering the further work of the BAT. I would ask you to study and read this report. We are expected to discuss it further tomorrow in the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on Internal Affairs. And yes, certain things – the Greens also confess themselves to this, simply because of state-political responsibility – will continue to be subject to confidentiality. You can't expect details – I mean, just that you didn't ask for the name and address of employees of Slovak intelligence services – to be discussed publicly here. It's not possible to rule! - Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11462	Mrs Stephanie Krisper spoke. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11484	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen at home! You can look at both Mr Schnedlitz's reply to Mr Schnedlitz's question and the interim report of the Commission of Inquiry online on the Parliament's side and take a picture of yourself. First of all, I come to the answer to this question. There are many legitimate questions to you, Minister of the Interior, and you have answered most of them only lapidar: There's a committee of inquiry. In accordance with the Constitution, Mr Mahrer, we Members have a right, Mr Mahrer, to review, in accordance with Article 52 B-VG, the management of the Federal Government, whose members are asked about all matters of execution. And you have a constitutional duty to take the right of interconnection seriously and to answer us here in full. It does not matter whether there is an investigation committee or not, and this cannot replace an investigation committee. There is now this Commission, and we will continue to devote ourselves to the question of how independent it can work. There is an interim report which also raises critical questions and points. Five are quite obvious. First: ==References====External links== In November, a convicted person for participation in a terrorist association, the State Police Directorate Vienna has not issued a ban on arms. Ladies and gentlemen at home! According to the Criminal Register Act, each criminal judgment of the LPD is transmitted by default. As a result, the LPD would have had to react clearly and, by itself, impose a ban on arms. To this end, it would have to be bound by the Weapons Act, which requires that it be imposed on certain points of risk – and these points of evidence – in the presence of certain hazards. Second inconceivable failure: In February 2020, the Army News Office informed the BAT that the sensory rise of HNAA is known to be in contact with persons from a specific hazard group. What happens to this information in the BAT? – Nothing to hear. Third point: The assassin takes part in a jihadist meeting in Vienna in the summer of 2020 with participants from Germany and Switzerland, to whom we are even informed by the partner services – because in terrorist matters, cooperation works – that these – I quote – are part of a “highly dangerous terrorist cell”. The BVT is unable to pass this information on to the LVT Vienna, let alone do anything with it. You could have agreed on justice, too, and that has not been done. Fourth point: A day after the jihadist meeting, the terrorist goes to Bratislava and wants to buy ammunition for a storm gun. To remember: These are fully automatic weapons, intended for use in permanent fires with large personal damage. This is not a joke, it is war material and, for good reason, does not belong to the hands of civilians – that is forbidden from the law – and certainly not to those of a condemned terrorist. The Slovak trader refuses to sell because the whole thing seems suspicious to him, and reports this to the Slovak authorities, who report it to our security authorities within days, together with photos. What happens to the info? – It is located at the office of the specialist in BAT for four weeks. Fifth, you open a bottle That's why the act's putting dust on. After the arrest in December 2019, the future defendant was wanted to undergo a risk analysis. It was also done, but only ten months later, in October 2020. So in such a case, one seems to be acting as if jihadists are adapting to the speed of a MA 2412. The procedures between the security authorities were a disaster in this case. In the result – I am convinced of that! – our legal situation would have required a variety of ways of responding appropriately. If you were serious, you would look at the authorities thoroughly and then draw the right conclusions and take steps. But they didn't go very hard! You have first shot at justice because they have lawfully released all serious perpetrators, then you have bound with a media office an anti-terrorism package, which is mostly a matter of course, and then you are in violation of us, in this case almost throughout, your constitutional duty to answer us here in response to questions and answers. This, Mr Bürstmayr, is not about justified excuses such as official secrecy or data protection, but, in my case, it is, in particular, about questions of your level of knowledge of these facts, to which you have remained to us an answer, and that is completely wrong. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] - I'll warn her next time!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11557	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request by Mr Schnedlitz, ladies and gentlemen, not to take note of Question No 4066/AB. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of their lack of knowledge to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[14:53:58]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11593	I have a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda items 2 to 4 so that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the sitting. I read: ‘With regard to item 4 and point 5 of the agenda, according to § 44 para. 2 GOG [...] with the necessary two-thirds majority [...] decided to withdraw from the 24-hour deadline for the setting up of committee reports. Agenda item 2: The draft law will be adopted in the second and third readings in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 626 [...]. Agenda item 3: The draft law is adopted in the second and third reading in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 629 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment proposal for an Supplement 3/1 [...]. The motion for a resolution Supplement 3/3 EA is adopted [...]. Agenda item 4: The draft law will be adopted in the second and third reading in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 627 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment proposal for a Supplement 4/1.’ Are there any objections to the version or content of those parts of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11654	I announce that, at today's meeting, self-employed applications 1208/A to 1220/A have been submitted. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 14.55 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
