ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e2954	I'll get the 95. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 7 Rules of Procedure have been called up. The unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of 91. Parliament resolution on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. Meeting of 25 March 1990 ==References====External links==* Official website Meeting and the official minutes of the 94th meeting. Meeting of 26. ==References====External links==* Official website Deputies Martina Diesner-Wais, Gabriela Schwarz, Dr Josef Smolle, Mag are reported as prevented. Ruth Becher, Doris Bures, Cornelia Ecker, Mag. Dr. Sonja Hammerschmid, Klaus Köchl, Mag. Verena Nussbaum, Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch, Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, MMMag. Dr. Axel Kassinger, Mag. Eva Blimlinger, Mag. Meri Disoskiund Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, BA. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e3031	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: The Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection Rudolf Anschober is appointed by Vice Chancellor Mag. Werner Kogler. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e3064	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e3253	In accordance with § 93 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure called for urgent consideration of the written question 6179/J submitted at the beginning of the meeting to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning ‘Friendly Economy, Postschacher and Corruption – A Guide to the example of ÖBAG like Sebastian Kurzthe Republic to Kurz AG’. The call for urgent inquiry will take place at 12 noon. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III. I can also announce that now, following the main committee, there is a meeting here in the hall and that since 7. The new rules of procedure apply on April, which I ask you to comply with. I am now interrupting the session until 12 noon. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e3302	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I will resume the interrupted session, welcome you and ask you to take your place. I also welcome the journalists and the ladies and gentlemen who are following our meeting at home in front of the screens. I should like to point out once again that we have amended the House's Rules of Procedure in paragraph 4 and ordered the last last-minute wearing of masks throughout the House – with the current derogations. I ask you to stick to it! [[All Members except those of the FPÖ – with the exception of the Abg. Rosa Ecker, who wears an FFP2 mask with the label “short must be gone” – wear an FFP2 mask.]] On the Rules of Procedure: Klubobmann Wöinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e3353	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have had a new house order for two days, which says that a FFP2 mask is to be carried throughout the house, in all Parliament buildings. Except for those who are limited to health, children as well as all here during their debates. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I think it is a point of order – and it is in fact inconceivable, that is the first time – that a house order is not respected by a political group. It is the FFP2 mask to be carried here at the seat. And it is a point of reference to the staff, to the employees and also to us representatives and to the members of the government. [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] Therefore, I will address all the political groups so that we can make a change in the Rules of Procedure, namely that, in an analogous way to what is provided for in the Rules of Procedure for the Committee of Inquiry, a penalty of at least EUR 500 will be imposed if this non-carrying of the mask is apparently practised here. It's not to be seen! It is just as the partyobmann of FPÖ Norbert Hofer said: It's self-examination, and no one understands this procedure. I shall therefore go to the other groups so that we can also make an amendment to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e3396	Is there any further mention of the Rules of Procedure? Please, Mrs Prince.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e3420	Good morning! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Once upon a time, there is such a change in the house rules that cannot exist. You know, Mr President, you need a common approach to the presidential process in order to change the rules of the house. You didn't, and you didn't look that enough. They have gone the way through this divergent regulation of the existing house rules. This is so unacceptable, you know for sure, because there are no existing regulations on what we should wear in the face. So you have to make the effort to change the house rules. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] Typically the reaction of Klubobmann Wooker: They do not think anything other than: punish, punish, punish, punish – no matter how ineffective it is. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] You, Mr President, have said that it is a provocation on the part of the FPÖ and is increasingly finding media attention. – No, this has not received any media attention at all, and now it is only because you have discussed it in each session. At each meeting, one stood up and gave some ridiculous speech of its own, although there was agreement – in the presidential agreement between all parties – that it is not the subject of the matter and that the Members have the responsibility to decide on their own responsibility. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] That's what the ÖVP never held on to, on engagement. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Because it means that the population has to suffer all of this and we then increase and do not ask for it, the general masquerade obligation at work has not come, that has not even agreed to propose health minister, for there is the IV which, I believe, is close to your party, and has said: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer]] [[towards ÖVP]] No, that's not what's happening now, because that's what reduces the performance of the workers! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – You don’t want our power to be reduced by sitting here for 12 hours, 15 hours and taking up the masks. You know exactly, with hygiene, health protection has nothing to do with it. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Also with permission: As a provocation, I would rather feel, Mr President, that you personally have dispelled an exception into the different house rules. This is how the protection of parliamentarians looks: they have to wear the mask here, not you. [[Abg. Steinacker: No,...!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I understand it, but it is not quite strict, and I would also like to use it for myself. We are a house of debate, a house of discussion, an open speech, and we must make use of it. It is not a privilege to sit here without a mask, but I think that it is the duty of Members to meet in times of crisis and danger, and we must also take risks to do so. We need to fucking talk and discuss with each other – I can't do this with a mask. I also think that committees should meet. It may come across one party or another, if there are fewer committees now, but no, Parliament's business has to run. Today the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” says: Susanne Prince will not change her way. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – Yes, because I have always been a considerate, polite, well-educated person, but also a thoughtful person; and there is no way that I take up a mask here for 12 hours, that is harmful to health! [[new call to the ÖVP]] They order this for trade workers and children in schools, and this is unbearable and unacceptable, as Mr Fäsmann himself said once again in the summer. This is harmful to health. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I've been bringing my family through the Corona crisis for a year with several generations without consulting a doctor once. [[Call:Bravo]] You can't do that. In winter, I stopped my boys from skiing, running dangerous sports, so that we don't have to consult a doctor if something happens, so that we don't need a sickbed because they're scarce, because you didn't create any more intensive bed in one year. [[Abg. Steinacker: Not just you, we all!]] Unfortunately, this is in the ÖVP club, I think, not quite successful, as we have just heard again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, I would simply urgently request: Leave this topic! We have an exciting topic today at this special meeting, which Mr Finanzminister is already waiting! I'd say, Let's get back to work!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e3564	Member of the Klubobmann Kickl – and then Mrs Maurer – to the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e3589	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the ÖVP:... correct now!]] In the run-up to today's sitting, I have just given the following details: Since the first lockdown, we have had 45 national Council meetings, 39 assignment meetings and a much higher number of committee meetings. All these meetings took place without a corresponding obligation to wear masks. Now, in the President-in-Office, Mr President, I have done what is a reasonable access to things. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I asked you: What's the reason? What figures can you tell me that a change from a recommendation to a commitment is now necessary? That is, I think, a very legitimate question, because only if you answer this question is clear, what must happen so that this commitment also falls away. And if you cannot answer this question, Mr President – and you could not answer it – then we have arrived where it really is, then we are at the political arbitrarily – and nothing else is going on. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The only difference between the phase I have described, with 45 National Council meetings and everything else that belongs to it, and now is that the ÖVP has been in the backward movement for a few weeks. You stand the corruption water up to the shaker hair approach, Mr President – and you may feel personally addressed. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] And that is the reason – the only reason – why Now you do what you always do in such situations, i.e. ignite glares and organize distraction maneuvers. Can push children in front of TV cameras You don't have any more, otherwise the coalition partner will get away with you, so you have to look for something else, and you've come up with the masks. [[Call the Greens.]] The whole thing is completely evidence-free, you didn't give me any reason. But I presented you in the presidential figures. I have presented to you the figures of the Ministry of Health, which clearly show that the utilization of intensive beds is now much lower than it was in December. Yes, why didn't you order the masquerade's obligation in December if that's the criterion? That alone shows how transparent your whole game is. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You must take care of a bit, Mr President, because your argument has something quite dangerous: A few months ago, you explained to the population that you have to wear a mouth-nose protection so that you don't endanger others. Then you made the change and said that now it's the FFP2 masks that you have to wear to protect yourself. – Yes, what are you afraid of when you wear the FFP2 mask? What are you afraid of when you are protected by wearing this mask? - Attention! Her argument has a dangerous horse foot, because she leads herself ad absurdum. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is still an important difference to the stages in which we have been in the past. We have already experienced all the highs and lows of the pandemic, we also had different seating regulations here. All of this won't come into question for you. Now it's about ordering the masks. [[President Sobotka is setting up an FFP2 mask.]] - Ah, yes, put it on! This looks better and also serves your credibility. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] You will not be able to derive a protection function from it. [[President Sobotka takes the FFP2 mask off again.]] - Now he's putting them down again. But this is typical of the hypocrisy of the Austrian People's Party, because the house rules to which you have referred and which have been in force since yesterday, including in the Committee of Inquiry, have not been observed by you and by the Minister of Finance in the Committee of Inquiry. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] They are there for a few minutes, without wearing a mask, and the same applies to Mr Blümel. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – So much for the honesty of the Austrian People's Party. We are willing to take all the useful measures, but then you must be able to explain the sense of meaning to us. They couldn't do it in the Presidential. We are not at your disposal!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e3703	Klubobfrau Maurer is reported to speak for business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e3728	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not wish to comment on the content of these statements. We've been knowing evidence-based for a year, what's helping against the pandemic and what's not. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] If some still refuse to recognize these facts, then it is. I would like to point out what the reason for this discussion is: These are the employees of this house. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] There is a letter from the Committee on Services that express concern is expressed, this concern which has been with us for a year and which has been consistently ignored by certain parts of the House, by certain Members of this House, and has been trampled on with feet. The reason for the change in the house rules is precisely the situation that we have to keep this House working. If a lot of employees suddenly fail, because representatives of the FPÖ walk through the corridor without masks and endanger the employees of this house, then at once we have a lot of people in quarantine, and the meetings can no longer be held and accompanied accordingly. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] That was a part of the discussion in the Presidential. [[Prolonged condolences with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl:...! ... Blitzgneißer!]] I have to say, the ignorance with which the Freedom Party comes here and places itself and runs around without masks, with full intention – with full intention! – and no person from the FPÖ wears a mask here, which is - – – I do not see here any FPÖ delegates with a mask. [[Abg. Amesbauer: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Deimek: What do you mean by that? ...!]] [[Abg. Deimek: This is an unbearable...! ...for the party!]] That's intention. I am familiar with the fact that civil disobedience is certainly not strange to me, but this is about a house order, here it is about the danger of employees. [[Abg. Deimek: Unbearable! Sit down! ... will be embarrassing!]] It is not about an actionistic display of misunderstandings, but about the explicit danger of people working here. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Deimek.]] Mrs. Prince has previously claimed that she was well educated and reasonable, and I do not know what she has said about everything she is supposed to be. [[Abg. Deimek: You are uneducated! Naughty!]] In full awareness of the rules set up to combat the pandemic, to step with feet and to take on board the fact that the staff of this House, who express their own concern and want to do something about it, get sick, which testifies to ignorance and certainly not of reason or of respect for good education and the conformity of rules, certainly not! [[Abg. Deimek: What do you blame me? You are the uneducated with this...! ... Discrimination! Goodbye!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e3878	For business treatment: Mr Leichtfried, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e3902	Mr President. In fact, I did not want to speak in this debate and only note that the SPÖ Group of the European People's Party, of course, supports and considers this requirement of support, but the comment made by Mr Maurer on why this debate is actually taking place has led me to speak. I am of the opinion that this discussion is taking place today, especially for a reason – and not for the first time, but for a number of times – so that we can speak as late as possible and as far as possible from other debates about this swamp of turquoise post chess, from turquoise superiority, from sexism, corruption investigations and house searches or not able to speak at all. [[Crashes with SPÖ and FPÖ]] That is the real reason for this debate, ladies and gentlemen. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and FPÖ, as well as Neos representatives.]] There is another reason that is probably just as unpleasant to this government: that we are discussing as late as possible that a large German group is trying to extortion Austrian workers, and that the Federal Government with the Chancellor at the head of the German government is not making an earwashing attempt to do something about it. That is why we are now discussing this issue even longer. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e3942	Is there another word for business treatment? – If this is not the case, I may be allowed to comment [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] On Clubobmann Kickl as mastermind of Dirty Campaign, I don't want to go into this Suada. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kickl]] [[Call at the SPÖ: The show is over!]] I can't comment on this either, he's commenting on it himself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] In the supermarket he wears the mask at the end, not here. I would like to tell you once again the reason why I did this also in the Presidency, and it would be very easy to follow this reason If you have a Service Committee representing 500 employees who have urgently asked that the health authorities of both the country of Vienna and the Federal Ministry be respected, what should I do other than someone who is at the end of the service obligation to take care to ensure that the staff are protected accordingly? [[Abg. Kickl: Do you wear them at home?]] [[Abg. Kickl: That's what you ordered yourself!]] I myself was K1, because we had no lateral plexiglass panes at the Bureau, and seven employees, all at the National Council, were also K1. [[Abg. Belakovich: Five days!]] That was the reason I left the voluntary commitment and made an order on the basis of the house order – and nothing else. [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] [[12:18:26]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e4032	The Federal Electoral Authority has issued a communication that Mr Magistrate. Thomas Drozda has renounced his mandate and, in his place, has been appointed to the National Council by Mr Mario Lindner. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the writer, the new Member will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. I may be the writer, Mag. Steinacker to request reading of the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e4069	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e4097	I thank you for your vow. I would like to welcome you, Mr Deputies, in our midst. [[General condolences.]] You're not an unknown man, you've already been to the National Council. You know the usances. We are pleased that you have found your way back into the middle of Parliament. [[12:19:48]] Request for urgent procedure by Christian Hafenecker, MA, colleagues at the Federal Minister for Finance concerning “Friendly Economy, Post-Schacher and Corruption – A Guide to the example of ÖBAG such as Sebastian Kurzde Republik zur Kurz AG” (6179/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e4136	We now come to the urgent debate on the written question 6179/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading through the writing process. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e4626	I declare Member of the Hafenecker to be the first questioner to justify the request, in accordance with § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure must not exceed 20 minutes, he knows, the word. - Please, the word stands with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e4647	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! (The speaker put on a table which reads as follows: ‘Thomas Schmid: OBAG adopted by the NR. Also with the voices of the SPÖ / Mag. Gernot flower (+43664859XXXX): SchmidAG done! / Thomas Schmid: ", on the speaker's desk.) Perhaps just a word to debate from the outset: So if the EIA violates the rules of procedure and the Rules of Procedure, we have known since the 1930s that there is a need for caution, and I would like to give this to you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] However, I am now addressing the subject, ladies and gentlemen, and I should like to begin with the words that the President of the Federal Republic left us in the Ibiza crisis at the time: “We are not that way,” he said, and yes, I think that is something that we should also highlight in the course of the debate, especially if you, Mr Federal Minister, are not. I would like to refer briefly to the so-called Ibiza affair and its consequences. All of us, including me, were shaken by the pictures that were offered on TV. You don't need to talk like that. But what I didn't know at that time is that, in fact, the protagonists of the FPÖ of the time acted as a substitute for the ÖVP, because what was shown in the video is the daily business that runs behind the closed doors of the ÖVP. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, so you are! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If this Ibiza video is a Then I would say that it has had two meanings: first because we were no longer required by the FPÖ to make you the robbers for your players. - That was the first point. [[Rejoicing and interlocutors with representatives of the ÖVP.]] The second point was, and that's much, much more important – you're going to lose the laugh, ladies and gentlemen – that we had the opportunity to convene a Ibiza Investigation Committee, and that was, as it turns out now, right and important. [[Call at the ÖVP: That's where you have to laugh!]] At the beginning of this committee of inquiry, we also saw how: You are really not, as the President of the Federal Republic says, but you are such that you are running to the Constitutional Court and once again wanted to have out the brilliant parts of the Investigation Committee. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, so you are! It is funny in this context that the Greens too are so, because the Greens have participated. That was the birth of a party, which has become a party of trustees, my dear ladies and gentlemen. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Kollross.]] I do not want to imagine what your deceased colleague Gabi Moser would say about this behavior, which I very much appreciate. Yes, and to the history that we wanted to take certain points out of the investigation committee, I also remember the shawls that came from the ÖVP – around Mr. Klubobmann Wöginger and all party colleagues there – at the time: We cannot allow the NEOS and the Social Democrats to look into the government! You've got to join me! I can remember exactly how you tried to wrap our fingers again and get us to help you cover your own mistakes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have not participated. – Mr Wöginger, you know exactly how the ÖVP came to me at the time. Remember! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That was the last successful attempt of the ÖVP. Just fell for what happened then, the greens are only more. Now I also know why at the Ministry of the Interior at lightning-like speed a troop has been set up, which had no other task, except to hinder the investigation work in the Committee of Inquiry, ladies and gentlemen. This is a politically hand-picked force that does nothing to this day but stop our file deliveries and hinder our investigation work. – That’s exactly what you are, you just have to explain this to the Federal President. I just want to point out what you've done: Ibiza video lost, disappeared; this was only delivered months later. They have brought justice minister Zadić to light with the discovery of the Ibiza video – it is striking, by the way, that no one green minister or any green minister is here today, which shows how alone you are now. Chat messages were only published if they were as private and as embarrassing as possible towards a FPÖ member; only then have they been published. Only the pressure of the opposition has caused your extra embarrassing text – and you can read it in front of it – to be brought to light. [[point to the panel on the speaker's desk]] - But later. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you have to go a little further and see what network the ÖVP has built up. We now have 70,000 files in the investigative committee, which make this network clear to us – and which also make it clear to us what deep state you have built up and how far your possessions, your superiority, your arrogance and your greed are rich. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, these are documents of morals and morals. Especially with regard to the Catholic Church that you have been so educated, I would recommend: Read through the ten commandments, put your daily behavior on it and talk on only after you have become a little humble! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We now know what is slumbering under the surface of the water, under the tip of the icebergs, ladies and gentlemen, and that is stunning. The ÖVP has built a deep state and this deep state is based above all on three essential pillars that have now been captivated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] It's about perfect control at the Ministry of the Interior. It's about recoloring the Ministry of Finance – it's done. And there is still a particularly perfidious part that can only be seen at the second glance, and that is the Ministry of Justice, which is colored into black in the main areas up to the last corner. From the point of view of the Greens, it would have to be frenzied that you only have a green score on it, that is the Minister of Justice Zadić, who is in the best case there is breakfast director, but de facto has nothing to say. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] Dear Green, you have been pulled over the table by the ÖVP! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Such a system does not arise from today on tomorrow, so such a system also needs helpers. One of these helpers is sitting next to me on the dock – oh, I'm sorry, it's still the government bank! –, Minister of Finance Gernot Blümel. [[Abg. Steinacker: We are legislators and not jurisdiction!]] – Yes, yes, ladies and gentlemen, you will still be laughing and yelling, I have a lot to tell you. So Gernot Blümel has been one of these helpers by Sebastian Kurzbei to set up his system. No one trusts him. This is the man who constantly forgets zeros, that's the man with the 86 memory gaps, and the memory gaps have now become zeros. No one would trust him that he is the mastermind of Sebastian Kurz near the reorganisation of the Republic. But he has become somehow, and that is why we are dealing with him today. Ladies and gentlemen! The man plays a central role in the universe of Sebastian. Especially a central role in the Ballhausplatz project, of which you always tell us that there is no such thing at all. What is the Ballhausplatz project? – This is not only the rise of the Chancellor's office, ladies and gentlemen, but it is in fact the ÖVPization of this entire Republic, which is the occupation of essential posts and positions, that is, the maximization of profit and power, and with the entry into the Federal Government one has already begun to secure these file pieces. I would like to come to the creation of the short holding; the short holding is the umbrella association over Schmid AG, from which we will then also hear. It is breathtaking with which coldness you have actually addressed this project. Already in June 2017, before the elections were taken, Mr. Schmid had already browsed through the telephone book of the Republic and looked at: Where do you get the most money, where do you least have to work, how can I best shape my further life? He then found himself relatively quickly at the current Öbag and said: This is a job I want. He didn't take care of the election campaign, for example, or because one then conducts government negotiations, no, he started, in a postal turn, to get this job right, ladies and gentlemen. It is truly stunning how you can march in a direction – in the direction of power and money. This is also the time when chancellor Kurz has dimed in the investigation committee for the first time, for he has said he has experienced it through the media, and everyone has always known that Mr. Schmid is seeking this job. – That’s not true at all! There are now these text messages that show us that it was from the house of Mr. Schmid's plan to take over Öbag as the sole board. Why doesn't the Federal Chancellor stand for this? What prevents him from correcting that? And in the middle of it instead was Mr. Blümel, the Federal Minister sitting next to me. Perhaps we'll take a brief look at this text, because they're supposed to document how the tops of this republic communicated with each other and how this whole story has been started and run with Öbag. Mr. Federal Minister, perhaps Then please explain, but I was disturbed by a text message in which it was about quickly implementing the ÖIAG Act. Thomas Schmid writes to you: “You really owe me that!” He writes: “I’m falling into the Danube today and you’re to blame!” Your answer: "Be careful that you don't jump at me." Mr. Finanzminister, why did you plan to jump into the Danube, and why did you fear that Mr. Schmid would jump on you? – Maybe you can explain this to us, because perhaps we have to worry in some way. Maybe you can put light in the dark. In the course of this Öbag chat, we also see how Mr. Schmid has taken care of the implementation of his plan. First of all, the invitation to tender was cleared so that it agreed with Schmid – you know, the “international” was pulled out so that Mr. Schmid had a chance at all. At the same time, one has begun to use the supervisory boards, hand-readed by Mrs. Spiegelfeld, who can no longer remember them so properly, but this can be done quite well with these chats, which have only been delivered after their consultation or consultation. The selection of these Supervisory Boards has also been made in a special style. I just want to quote a message. This is about a supervisory board, and then it is written: “Really a good!”, good NÖ-Raika network. “She has done [...] delicate things cleanly for NÖ.” – So I don’t want to imagine what that is. When delicate things are done cleanly by the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen, I almost believe in dangerous threats. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Karl-Theodor von and zu Guttenberg: He was supposed to be the head of the Supervisory Board. Of course, this has also been harassed in this group, and it has only been said briefly that this is a horror. – But I don’t understand why you spoke against Karl-Theodor from and to Guttenberg, because he had just fit very well into your plagiarism group, ladies and gentlemen! On 21.8., there was a text from Gernot Blümel to Thomas Schmid: “Save your public today.” Here comes the first bussi in the game, we see that constantly in this text message. Thomas Schmid: “My Grand Hero!!!” – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know how you normally communicate on duty, I do not do it in this way at least. Then everything goes on, there are a few more so blasphemies in this group, and finally on 11.12. Gernot Blümel's execution report to Thomas Schmid, in which there is: “SchmidAG done! ” – Important: On 11.12.2018, the ÖIAG Act was passed in the National Council. [[Abg. Fuchs: With the SPÖ!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the first act – and it is really only exemplary for what you are doing in this Republic. In fact, it is only the building box for how you have done it in many other areas. However, I would like to take a short look at the monetary effects of this Thomas-Schmid deal – in the course of which one wanted to jump into the Danube before, which one then thanked God – to go closer, namely: After all, it's a contract that's not inconvenient. It is a contract that brings 600 000 euros plus a year, which has now been in place for two years, which now accounts for 1.2 million euros, and it is a contract – and you have not said that so loudly – where Mr. Schmid is still sitting as chairman in various supervisory councils in his own businesses, which are under his roof. This is not necessarily what I would call hygiene in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, too. There's a little more need for action! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That means, for all of this, you are: You stand for deception, you stand for greed, you stand for shamelessness and you stand for arrogance. And if you want to represent arrogance in a picture, you only have to look at the “ZIB 2” interview of Mr. Finanzminister a few days ago. That is documented in word and image, ladies and gentlemen. That is why I find the fog grenades, which are constantly thrown by the ÖVP in this context, really embarrassing. You actually believe that you can somehow save yourself by saying: Well, okay, so the communication in these chats was not all right and you should have done it differently. – That’s not the topic, ladies and gentlemen, that’s just the update! It is in fact a question that you have deceived or corrupted institutions of the state in order to get to jobs that do not belong to you. And this distraction maneuver we will certainly not take away from you! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These warm-hearted chats, which are constantly being shown there, are not the reason why we're talking about it today, but it's about you cutting everything you want. Ladies and gentlemen! That's how the ÖVP family works, and I'd be interested in who all of this family is. We know the male members now. It would interest me to see how this ÖVP family is actually set up, and also who is, so to speak, the family father. That would be the question here. I strongly believe that it is the Chancellor of the Federal Republic – unfortunately he has not found a time to assist you today, Mr Blümel. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, these processes in Öbag alone would have meant that a government as a whole should take the hat – if not just a pandemic would be running. However, we seem to be at another time when many, many things happen, which would normally not be possible in the states of the law. I just want to replicate the story with Novomatic. Why did the House search take place at the Minister of Finance? – This is relatively easy to answer: The Novomatic Chief calls on the Minister of Finance, then the Secretary-General of the ÖVP, to meet Mr Kurz at the time. The deadline is being made, a tax problem in Italy is solved, the tax debt of 60 million euros is being pushed down to 20 million euros, and by the way, a donation is still being discussed. And this donation, ladies and gentlemen, is, of course, what is still busy with us, including the investigative authorities. We will certainly also find out where this donation has flowed. – Mr Blümel, you have the opportunity to tell us today. However, the deep state of the ÖVP also becomes visible when you look at what has yet to happen in connection with this house search. On the one hand, your companion, Mr. Blümel, left home with the stroller and the laptop. You say it wasn't a pram – there's something else in the protocol inside, you don't know if you had a laptop, so you shouldn't give me that exact details, Minister of State. But the point is the one: Why Brings Your chief of cabinets then minutes later – or twenty minutes later – return this laptop to the authorities? And the next question I have to ask is: Why do you have x-fold charging cable for different laptops at home, only the laptops were not found? That means, for me, the question is: Has your companion left with just a laptop, and was that the one that was then brought back? – I think that should be part of the investigation, too, and I think we will also bring light to the dark. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] What makes me really stupid in this whole discussion – Mrs. Steinacker, listen to me, breathe through briefly, pull down the mask briefly, then it goes back! – is the Lord who sits behind me: This is the National Council President Sobotka, who has just tried to call, or perhaps telephone, the top officials in the Ministry of Justice, Mr Pilnacek, around the house search by Mr Blümel. You know, Mr Pilnacek is one of the massive supporters of the ÖVP in the Ministry of Justice. – I would be interested, Mr President Sobotka – perhaps to report You then also speak and clarify – what you wanted from him twelve times. Or did you ask Mr Blümel to intervene with Mr Pilnacek? That would interest me. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Talk about it and talk about it. You don't always hate your housework! That would be interesting once. So: Mr Pilnacek has been called, that is one point. On the other hand, Mr Pilnacek speaks of a coup taking place in the government. – I do not believe that it is the duty of the highest official in the Ministry of Justice to call anything a coup. I don't think it's his job to have files photographed, sent to your own phone, and then whatever it is to do with it, ladies and gentlemen. And here we are at the third pillar I mentioned earlier and where you have undermined the Republic: at the Ministry of Justice. If it is really possible in Austria that a Constitutional Judge, a former Minister of Justice, has probably dealt with this and is confronted with the fact that he has been using Mr Pilnacek as a house search by Mr Tojner, and if the EIA does not find it worth the effort to remove this Constitutional Judge, then we see where we have landed, ladies and gentlemen! That's where democracy has to cry out. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry about the time. Unfortunately, 20 minutes are not enough to somehow explain all your pieces of art that you always perform there. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But acid meadows where the eye reaches. – Mr Hanger, you, as a multitalent in the National Council, know exactly where you do not have to look! – Sour meadows where the eye reaches! [[call to the FPÖ.]] What makes me stupid is the deafening silence of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. Where is the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who has made his statement on day-to-day policy every week in our joint coalition? Why is the President of the Federal Republic so massively silent? Why does Mr. Kurz allow all these paintings? Why is there not an act of political hygiene? Why has Mr Schmid not been withdrawn? Why doesn't he pay back his 1.2 million euros, which he has wrongly collected? So questions about questions I just don't understand. The man who doesn't say anything about whom we don't know what he's doing, the President of the Federal Republic, has said: “That’s not how we are.” I tell you one thing – I have said it several times –: So you're both already, and the greens will be finer when they get there, and they've helped the ÖVP everywhere, and especially at what price – a few posters, a few million for a few NGOs, and that's it. Dear Greens, you won't get away from it. Sometime, and that will be soon, your own base will hunt you into the desert. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We live in the Corona era and we talk a lot about incidences. Of course, I also thought about the incidences and came to a conclusion: The highest incidence in this country have the corruption scandals of the short- ÖVP, and therefore belong [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner]] As soon as possible from the government bank directly to the indictment bank, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. This government is immediately sent to the lockdown due to its painting. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen – and I address the opposition parties in particular – it needs a national shoulder closure. It does not need a national shoulder closure in the direction that the ÖVP has operated, that one goes here and deliberately destroys the economy, but it needs a national shoulder closure to remove the ÖVP from power. Ladies and gentlemen! My final word: Only in this way will we prevent a state 2.0. Mr. Federal Minister Blümel, play hygiene Austria once, step back and take away your colleagues who sit on the left of you right away!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e4845	Mr Blümel, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, has been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e4866	Mr President. Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! As a passionate and convinced democrat, I can tell you today that I love Parliament. [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I have already spent a lot of time here, both as a parliamentary employee and as an employee in the office of the Second President of the National Council, and yet I was hardly as often in the premises of this House as last year. [[Abg. Kickl: Ah, at Spindelegger!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] [[Abg. Yılmaz: It's very bad!]] This is in principle a good thing, but sometimes it is accompanied by the suspicion that some Members here are not concerned with parliamentary control, but rather with scandalization, outrage and public pre-conception, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: What else is going to happen?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Listen: Don't be so sad!]] [[Call:You should be ashamed]] And this suspicion confirmed itself this week in the committee of inquiry. For example, the SPÖ: Mr Krainer, say It is for people, as is really the case in the Committee of Inquiry, that the judge, who is independent and objective, simply has not allowed the very majority of your questions at all! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holzleitner.]] Or the NEOS: The Group chairperson of NEOS in the investigation committee should also note that the first trial judge has resigned from the investigation committee because – quote –: “The most apostatized statement of a leader of the political groups” – in parentheses: Krisper von den NEOS – “and the subsequent public discourse is for me without an example. I have never experienced anything like this in my decades of career as a judge” and “I never expected anything like it.” – This is the tone that reigns there! [[Abg. Belakovich: This pain!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Such a poor harerl, the flower!]] If I look at Mrs. Krisper's statement again, I have to say: [[Abg. Schellhorn: Glaskinn!]] What is this tone?, and then I don't want to know the associated text, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also very revealing that, especially those Members who have been officially committed to data protection and personal rights in recent years, are now delegating to personal messages from third parties and commenting on them in public. Obviously, the personal rights here only apply to some and only if it is just right, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] But yes, if individual messages are tossed out of the context in time and also in terms of content, then this can be annoying and outrageous, and if I am honest, I can also understand some of this outrage. But I am sure that everyone and everyone in his/her life has already written news that he or she would no longer write after, especially if they have been written out of the emotion – all the more so if you communicate with someone you know long and well. There one certainly formulates salopper as if you communicate with people you don't know so well. The next theme complex: The Federal Government makes personnel decisions, quite right, very regular and very many. It goes from VfGH judges and universities to foundation councils, supervisory councils et cetera. Some decisions are made by the Council of Ministers, some decisions are made by the Minister responsible under the Federal Ministry Act, and sometimes there are also discussions about personnel decisions if one is not formally responsible. This is neither objectionable nor illegal, and above all there is nothing new about it. The procedures are the same in all government constellations, whether with SPÖ, FPÖ or with the Greens, my dear Ladies and gentlemen! It is always important, first of all, that the legal framework conditions are respected, second that the person is qualified, and third, that the last responsibility lies with the competent body. That is the case, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also think it unbearable that staff decisions are approved by some parties on a flat-rate basis and staff decisions are automatically scandalised by bourgeois parties. This scandalization, by the way, is damaging all the policies, not just those to be met. You should also be aware of this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, it is also very exciting that just those parties that alleged political influence on companies demand exactly this access today. In one day, they criticize too much influence of politics and the next day demand that exactly this influence, exactly this interference in the board of directors take place. That's double-bidden and unbelievable, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] High house! For a few days now, especially within the Freedom Party, the matter of the masquerade's duty in the House has been discussed. [[Abg. Hafenecker: But this is not on the request!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I can tell you, the mask of the opposition in the investigation committee, which has already fallen. For a long time, they have not been concerned with information, but with scandalisation and public diffamation. I am always willing to explain the false accusations to the competent authorities. [[Abg. Belakovich: When? When?]] However, I doubt that this is the right circle in the Committee of Inquiry or today in the urgent question. [[Abg. Kickl:... a coupist...!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: When where? When is the right time?]] Nevertheless, I am now happy to come to the questions I have addressed, which I can answer as follows: Questions 1 to 4, 6 to 13, 42 to 44 and 47: It was and is not a secret that the Öbib should become a Öbag, for the Öbib was no longer contemporary. Most of them agreed. The objective was an active participation management of the federal government and the active perception of the Austrian ownership responsibility with the main objective of increasing value. The Öbag formation was a long and intensive process involving the most diverse people and parties, and, as in most long-term processes, there was a complete success and finally a success – with the decision-making by two-thirds majority, with the voices of SPÖ, FPÖ and ÖVP. Since the responsibility for the Federal Government's participation management was and is established in the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance of course also has a crucial and formative role to play in the legislative process in this regard. As you all know, MMag was back then. Thomas Schmid Secretary-General and thus in leading responsibility for this project. When such an important project is completed, one can also congratulate, and that is exactly what I did. Following the entry into force of the ÖIAG Act on 1.1.2019, the Supervisory Boards were appointed by the Minister of Finance at the Annual General Meeting on 15.2.2019. Six capital representatives and three employee representatives were appointed as provided for by law. As a result, the application process for the operational management of Öbag was initiated. As the Chairman of the Supervisory Board has repeatedly clarified in recent days, this has been a very professional and competitive application process. This resulted in Thomas Schmid being the best known and was unanimously appointed on 27 March 2019 by the competent Supervisory Board. According to legal provisions, a board of directors was to be ordered on the basis of the current scope of the tasks of Öbag. The four-eye principle according to corporate governance code has always been respected by orders from lawyers. In principle, in the case of personnel decisions, it is always essential that, first of all, the legal framework conditions are respected, that, second, the person is qualified and third, the last responsibility lies with the competent bodies. Thomas Schmid will certainly have told me that he is an Öbag board member. Should anyone have asked me about this, I will have noticed that I consider it highly qualified. The Supervisory Board made a decision on this, because it was responsible for it. In general, however, many personnel decisions are made in the Federal Government, from VfGH judges to universities, foundation councils, general councils to supervisory councils. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Some decisions are taken jointly by the Federal Government, some of the decisions of the ministers responsible under the Federal Ministry Act. This is neither objectionable nor illegal, especially it is nothing new, the processes are very similar in all governmental constellations. Question 5: The appointment of the members of the Öbib nomination committee was provided for by law by unanimous Council of Ministers on a proposal by the then Federal Chancellor and Deputy Chancellor. It consisted of Hartwig Löger, Gernot Blümel, Wolfgang Leitner and Günther Helm. By the way, all the supervisory councils selected by the Öbib nomination committee had to become a staff advisor, who reviewed their qualifications. On questions 14 to 29: These questions relate to contacts and discussions and therefore no items of execution falling within the competence of the Federal Ministry of Finance, in particular no matters of the administration of the federal government as bodies of private rights. Questions 30 to 32, 35 to 38: The invitation to tender and selection procedures shall be carried out by the Supervisory Board in accordance with the Employment Act. In addition, it is also the responsibility of the Supervisory Board as the competent body of Öbag to order the Executive Board. On questions 33 and 34: Since the Öbag was created by the conversion of the Öbib and thus the legal possibility of a Supervisory Board was created in Öbag, there was no time overlap between the existence of the Öbib nomination committee and the Öbag Supervisory Board. Furthermore, the Öbib Nomination Committee's task was limited by law to the selection and nomination of the Supervisory Board members to be elected by the Öbib in the main or general meetings of its shareholders. As a result, a transfer of persons to the Öbag Supervisory Board by the Öbib Nomination Committee was neither legally nor factually possible. The appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of Öbag falls within the competence of the Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Stock Corporation Act. On questions 39 to 41: No, I didn't ask. On questions 45 and 46: There are always many discussions with the most diverse people and political parties in the course of legal proceedings. In recent days, Medial has announced that the SPÖ had wishes regarding the design of the ÖIAG for the creation of the Öbag. A corresponding amendment to the ÖIAG Act was finally adopted in the National Council on 11.12.2018 with the votes of the SPÖ opposition. Question 48: No, no, no, Questions 49 and 50: No, not that I knew. As a politician, you have regular contact with a large group of people during events and appointments. Not all individuals can be assigned. Questions 51 to 53: None. As a politician, you have regular contact with a large group of people during events and appointments. In addition, I don't even have the phone number of section head Mag. Pilnacek. On questions 54 to 56: No, no, no, In question 57: This question does not concern any subject of execution within the competence of the Federal Ministry of Finance. However, I would like to answer this question: Yes, of course I informed the Federal Chancellor about this. On question 58: No, no, no, Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e5179	Mr Klubobmann Kickl is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e5200	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I really don't know what I'm supposed to say or call the Lord correctly to my left: as Minister of Finance, but then probably Mr. D.K. Minister of Finance would be better, or would you prefer Danilo Kunhar, or might you have any other identities, among which you're advocating in world history and driving your corruptive unbeing? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Melchior.]] In any case, I'd like to tell you: The vexation you have made with this alleged question answer today will cost you heroic status with Mr Schmid. Be careful, you won't get a bussis! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Melchior.]] At any rate, we have a phenomenon that needs to be noted, and this is a multiple identity of ÖVP representatives and the ÖVP as a whole. This multiple identity is something similar to the expression and symbol of a completely widespread multifaceted or dual vision there, it is even something similar to the specific characteristic of the Austrian People's Party. Double vision, Janus capacity: That's the thread that's going through everywhere with you. What is described, for example, as if it were a blitz-clean and, of course, completely free from any political influence of the ÖVP peak representatives of an Öbag chief who manages a billion assets belonging to the taxpayer there, is in fact something quite different, namely the general planning and execution of a post-checker for the Bussi Bussi-Spezi Thomas Schmid by Mr. Kurz, in conjunction with Mr. Blümel. This is the true face, the true representation of the events. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There you write down the tender criteria on your own body, including the megagage in millions, to the casting of the respective Supervisory Board is everything worked out! Mr. Wöginger, it's like lulling in your Bussi Bussi party! All of this is the truth behind the new policy with which you are supposed to have acted in order to rule differently in this country. A second part of Janus' capacity, the dual vision, is the self-representation of the Austrian People's Party as a political community, which is particularly important to the values of Christian social doctrine and which naturally represents and supports everywhere the concerns of the Catholic Church. But all this is just a facade, as we have now come on top of it. There is something else behind that, you can see that in the chat protocols of this elitist men's round. There is a real desire for the humiliation and reproach of the highest church representatives. The text message in this context is a kind of sadistic outing that you have put there, the purest expression of power abuse, power noise and hybris. I don't want to know how, in your SMS correspondence in this Buberl party, you draw over your own country leaders! Who knows what's going on? You can be excited, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If I now address you, Mr Danilo Blümel or Gernot Kunhar or whatever is the real identity, I could just as well take the former head of the Geilomobilpilot Sebastian Kurz, the head of the Narcist of your party, or the bussi-bussi-schmid or the conductor of your power, Wolfgang Sobotka, or the chief gardener of your Buberlbiotope, Mr Spindelegger, or the exhauster in the Ministry of Justice, Mr Pilnacek – the list is not complete with us – because all these rulers form the core of your so-called family. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is less salopp than lovingly formulated – it is lovingly formulated! This is the honorable ÖVP family that I have listed in the approach, an honorable ÖVP family that has, in fact, formed a state in the state. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ]] I remember this whole process and this network less responsible representatives of the Republic; August, when I see and read and understand something like this, the Cosa Nostra comes into my mind, and anyone who can think clearly is doing the same. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is an irony of fate – or perhaps it is balancing justice, at least it is the Curse of the evil act that overtakes you – that this anatomy of the ÖVP network of post-chachers, protectionism, nepotism, and shamelessness is above all in the so-called Ibiza Investigation Committee, which you have designed as a guide over the Freedom Party. In the meantime, this has become a kind of seizing course for the pigs of the Austrian People's Party! One by one, we are exhumed, and we are far from finished, even if you want to prevent these committees from meeting. You won't succeed. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important for me to say this: The fact that Strache in Suff on Ibiza imaginatively gave of himself was admittedly highly urgent, yes – but he didn't break anything! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] While you have pointed your finger at him while you have become morally disheartened in ever-new caprioles in association with the President of the Federal Republic while you have demanded resignations, you have lived at the same time – you, Mr. Blümel, Mr. Kurz, Mr. Schmid, Mr. Sobotka and all you belong to – every minute of your work, every hour of your political activity, every day of your duties as officials in this Republic post-chacher, influence and purchase, and have implemented your ÖVP or Kurz AG in this Republic. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What a wretched hypocrisy! I can tell you: The punishment will speed you up, it will catch you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] We are now between Easter and Pentecost. I put the Acts to your heart with a quote: August, see, the feet of those who carry you out are already at the door! - Quote. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the FPÖ and congratulation with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It's the feet of justice standing at your door that you can't hack off by calling the justice a coupist because she's doing her job by looking behind the facades with you! And it is above all the feet of voters who will do this business to carry you out in front of the doorstep. I would like to see the feet of the media involved in this process become more numerous, that they are being stopped and that they are not fed and that they become part of this Short AG, but in the dimension and width of the scandals, which are also justifiable to the scandals. There's nothing else in the paper anyway. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Talking about Öbag means talking about a state in the state that ÖVP has built for years and decades. There the SPÖ is also a certain debt, because in its one-dimensionality and with the view always only to the chancellors, to the chancellors, to the chancellors, they have forgotten quite that there are other important areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] And the ÖVP infiltrated there and began to grow, and it grew there to this day. It is a state in the state, a crossroads of self-service shops and supply facilities, still equipped with full protection against criminal investigation and criminal prosecution. You've been thinking about everything! State in the state means abuse of the highest bodies in the Ministry of Finance, abuse of the Ministry of Justice by the fact that there are proceedings against your noble family, against the prestigious ÖVP family either amputated or beaten at all, and abuse in the Ministry of Justice by the previous patron saint you have had there, persecuting the law enforcement authorities and serving the offenders – this is also a unique achievement that can only become great on this miscarriage of the Austrian People's Party. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What happens there is nothing but to pick up a firewall for your family business. It also means abuse in the Ministry of the Interior, because you have targeted it there in such a way that you choose who is the one who finds out against you. This is then the abuse of how he is lived in the Ministry of the Interior every day. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] And these three departments, ladies and gentlemen, are the Bermuda triangle of the rule of law in Austria, the death zone for political hygiene, I would like to say. This is the closed system of the short-term EIA, which in fact operates a model with which it makes itself subject to the Republic and the citizens rather than serving the population as it would belong to. It's high time the craft was laid to you. I say that clearly! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Whenever I start to visualize this network, I think of § 278a of the Criminal Procedure Order, which is the Mafia paragraph. That is what is pretty slowly the only suitable instrument for the pursuit of your actions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] One more word: The President of the Federal Republic of Germany -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e5402	Your speaking time is over, come to a close!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e5417	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who was adamantly disheartened a few days after Ibiza, has fallen into persuasive silence. Mr President, wake up, otherwise you will become the contributor of this state in the state!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e5455	For your expressions of “corruptive unbeing”, the evaporation of the name, the “misbaptism” and the comparisons with the Mafia, I give you a call for order. They've crossed all the borders. [[Abg. Belakovich: Because of the evasion of a name?]] – Think of the dignity of the house in your choice of words! - Stay calm, it doesn't use anything. [[Abg. Kickl: You are the last to be allowed to put this in the mouth!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] The next speaker is Mr Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e5511	Mr President. Dear Members of the Austrian Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr. Hafenecker, Mr. Kickl! I can only tell you one thing: Their speeches belong to the cabaret stage and not to the Austrian Parliament – in all clarity! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Ah!]] I am going to do this a little more precisely, but for today I have decided to take this issue a little more calmly. [[Abg. Kickl: Anyone as he can!]] I really want to hold on: If you only evaluate the achievements of our Minister of Finance, our Ministry of Finance in some way objectively, you can only realize that excellent work is being done there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] 34 billion euros in economic aid were paid out and promised. We're Europe's top! You can also recognize that. Or, for example, the default bonus two: Since mid-February it has been possible to apply for, 400 million euros are now outside of the people. This accusation that these aids are not coming quickly is therefore really emptiness. I would also ask you to acknowledge this work sometime. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] To my material contribution: I asked myself what we currently need in Austria. In my opinion, we need three things: We need greater cohesion – and this is an appeal to the opposition parties – because we still have a few really difficult weeks ahead of us. [[Interlocutory calls at SPÖ and by Mr Belakovich and Mr Hafenecker]] To face this pandemic together would be the task that we would have in common here. I would also like to see a better political culture. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In particular, I look at colleagues Krainer and colleague Krisper. What is happening in this unscrupulous Ibiza study committee is to try to outstrip scandalisation attempts not to resort to mutual adaptation. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] I call on you to return to a reasonable political culture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, Let us finally return to a debate on the subject. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] For example, this week the US Finance Minister made an interesting proposal on global taxation, on the taxation of digital companies. Let us dedicate ourselves to the common goal of allowing digital groups to also provide a fair tax share in Austria! [[call to the FPÖ.]] But I don't hear anything from the opposition parties. That's reality. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] To the opposition parties: From this point of view, I have already said to the FPÖ that your corona policy is not responsible. I'm telling you clearly, I'm going one step further: This corona policy is scandalous! [[call to the FPÖ.]] Mr. Kickl, please don't be like a little defiant child: No, I'm not wearing the mask, I'm not wearing the mask! We are here in the Austrian Parliament and not in a kindergarten. That was written to you in all clarity in the main book. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I only have the hope that you will not prevail in the internal power struggle against your Federal Party Minister Hofer, who also has a completely different opinion on this subject. To the NEOS a few words, Mr. Schellhorn – where is he? – the once liberal economic party of the NEOS: [[Phone call at the NEOS]] Since you are a member of the Vienna City Government, you have always thrown all the principles overboard. But now, for days, almost criticizing Thomas Schmid's post-posting, because this is politically active, and at the same time arguing a political constituency, is not to be surpassed by contradiction. I have to tell you that in this clarity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] Then of course I still come to the SPÖ: I have asked my parliamentary staff to present me with a presentation of what post crews we could look at in the SPÖ environment, where, if necessary, post chess took place. I honestly tell you, he sent me such a long list that I don't know where to start. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I'll just give you two examples. Deputy Mayor Renate Brauner – Office for Sustainability and Health Care: Is this a supply job now, or what is that? The Vienna City Accounting Court has not even been able to see what is the task of the office. 2 million euros in two years – and you're talking about post chess?- Oh, my God! That's incredible. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] A second topic: Thomas Drozda. Honestly, I wish Thomas Drozda all the best in his new task. It must be possible for you, as a Member of Parliament, to be able to exercise a profession afterwards. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] But how to become an expert on real estate issues from the cultural manager, you also need to be able to explain to the population in all clarity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to stress very clearly the excellent work of our Minister for Finance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I do not want to repeat, but I would like to add another aspect that is very important to me personally. We all know that in political offices one also lives on his employees, whom one has in the environment. I have had the opportunity in recent weeks to get to know a lot of staff from the Ministry of Finance. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister, I would really like to congratulate you on the quality of your staff, I place an incredible amount of expertise there, I place an incredible amount of commitment, but what I especially appreciate: I find incredible passion to work for the Republic of Austria, and that is the most important thing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I very much hope that this commitment, this important commitment to Austria, will last for a long time, that we will continue to work intensively together to deal with this crisis. I'm convinced: With this common spirit we will be very successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e5704	Mrs Klubobfrau Rendi-Wagner has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e5726	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Finanzminister, you yourself said a few months ago that you want a middle-right policy with propriety. There are now really, very many people in Austria, especially the reports of the last few days about your mobile chats with the Federal Chancellor and some others: What does grace mean for you, Mr. Minister? Is there also any higher things in politics you're burning for that you're fighting for? I mean things other than pure self-interest, but the pure self-interest. The people in Austria are now getting the deepest insights into the innermost political operation of the turquoise family. They are insights that have disappointed many in Austria, especially those who have placed a lot of confidence in you and your turquoise promises of the new style some time ago. Now they are disappointed at how great this gap is, how great this difference between the promises and how turquoise politics actually works. Turkish politics, these are threats to justice, intimidation with the Catholic Church, the establishment of a state in the state, the establishment of networks in ministries, especially in the field of justice, the occupying of the Republic's control levers with taxable persons and thus the taking of the country into account, anti-female. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Turkish politics is apparently also the cutting of a post really important and well-dominated to the Republic for someone from your family. “Do get everything you want,” says the Federal Chancellor Thomas Schmid. “gets everything you want”: This seems to be the currency. Our Republic serves as a self-service shop, the Öbag, which holds shares for the Republic worth around 26 billion euros, is apparently a turquoise playground. This is not only immature politics, it is also highly responsible, it is deeply disrespectful of the people of our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For the former President of the Court of Auditors Franz Fierce, all this is no longer and no less than a typical example of corruption. Thomas Schmid, an Öbag board member who feels much more committed to himself and his turquoise family than anyone else: A board of directors must go. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A board of directors, who no longer has authority, no longer has the capacity to manage this important company well for Austria, must go that way, now, Federal Minister, and not only in a year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Member of Parliament Hafenecker, Meinl-Reisinger and Scherak.]] Do you know who is responsible and who is responsible for it? – This is the main shareholder, that is you, Federal Minister. The Minister of Finance has the main responsibility on this issue. Make sure that this board of directors is going and that this company does not continue for another year in this way! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To all of this, the Public Prosecutor's Office determines against former ÖVP finance ministers for suspicion of corruption against you, Mr. Finanzminister. Yes, whether you have violated criminal law, the courts will clarify whether you have committed an abuse of office, even if the courts have to clarify it, because neither the turquoise family nor anyone here in the hall is above the law. - No, no one's above the law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, criminal law must not, however, be the only moral standard to be set up here, because political resistance does not just mean complying with rules and laws. Political proponent means acting in such a way that values, dignity and morality also lead political action. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's clear: Without a minimum of political resistance, our democracy does not work. Without a minimum political proponent, there is no state to make, because our state, our democracy, depends on people who not only have a sense of responsibility for themselves, but also for the community. Our country needs people who are morals who are social, public-interested. This applies to politicians and politicians all the more, Mr Federal Minister, and the more so in times of crisis. At a time when Austria is dealing with the dramatic consequences of a century pandemic, with overcrowded intensification stations, heavily ill people, daily covid deaths - and this must be said again - with record unemployment, with increasing poverty and with an enormous economic breakdown, at a time when at MAN-VW in Steyr more than 8 000 jobs are at risk – despite a consolidated profit of more than 8 billion euros last year – in such a time, a capable, morally intact federal government needs to work and fight for sustainable solutions. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] At this time, our country needs a policy of propriety, a policy of social responsibility, and it needs above all actionable ministers. It is high time for a moral restart in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this sense: If you have the political proponent, Mr Minister, step back, make the way open to a capable finance minister at this difficult time!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e5839	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e5860	Mr President. Minister and Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] We have a constitution in Austria that regulates the formal conditions of our Republic, and we have a real constitution. The Austrian real constitution is the collection of good but also of many ungood informal rules in our Republic. [[Call the SPÖ:Postenchacher!]] This concerns, for example, the influence of the national leaders, but it also concerns rules such as the party book economy that has been practised for decades. At an institution, a company in Austria, it used to be called, it needs two bosses – bosses were rather few –: a red and a black one. [[Call the SPÖ: Is that... serious?]] This is a long-term tradition, even the official is affected by it, there are now some blue impressions – and I would like to say at this point that a party book does not make a bad official. Just because someone owns a party book doesn't mean he or she does worse work. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is a pattern in our Republic that has been practised for quite a long time, and it is already a bit amusing, as social democracy is doing here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner.]] She is now acting as if she were shocked by party-political post-achievement and the friendly economy, and that seems to me a little shambles against the background of Vienna, but also the many decades of government participation in social democracy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoke]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Smoking:... not hypocrites!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sir.]] What the Freedom Party is doing here, however, is exclusively a threat, for never before has the Friendly Economy been as plump as it was by the Freedom Party, where people have not even brought a qualification for their positions—word Sidlo, keyword Glock. [[Abg. Smoking: Who? For example, who? Call names!]] [[Abg. You son of a bitch!]] There has been no such threat before! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: You mean the Brosz was at least a tennis teacher, right?- Oh, my God!]] Of course, this long-standing law of non-transparent post positions is difficult to catch, because on the one hand, agreements are not made in public, on the other hand, there is a need for lengthy therapy for this problem. [[Abg. Belakovich: What? A therapy?- Oh, my God!]] [[Call the Greens.]] The good news is: We Greens are now in this government. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Ah ha ha ha!]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Clean environment, clean policies – we have promised to do so and we will solve it. This mammoth task won't be done tomorrow. This needs a lot of different measures, but we have already started. [[Call at the FPÖ: That's why the flower has to stay and the blacksmith!]] The poison must be out of the system. That means a fight on many fronts, a deweaning cure. Most of all, it needs tenacity. [[Abg. Kickl: That could be true!]] The only way to get friend economy and corruption out of the system is to get maximum transparency and control. Transparency is central because the action of state actors must be taken in front of the curtain, then control automatically happens, for example here by Parliament, by our Members, by the Court of Auditors, but of course also by civil society, the media, the interested public. [[Abg. Hafenecker: You don't believe this anymore! You sold yourself to the black crack, with skin and hair!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Call at the FPÖ:Did Thomas Schmid write the speech?]] It is essential for this control to have broad access to information. This is precisely what we can do with the Information Freedom Act, with the abolition of official secrecy. This means that in the future any action of the public hand, no matter at any level, can be requested and reviewed. This will lead to a light in dark corners, but above all it will have a preventive effect, because if you know that you can be properly controlled in what you do, you will also act clearly more consciously. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Wöger.]] The Information Freedom Act is one of many measures. [[Call the SPÖ:Collegin Maurer, let me tell you what the title of the current hour is?! I think she took the wrong speech!]] For example, the unbundling of gambling agents in the Ministry of Finance and a ban on sponsoring and donations for gambling companies to the parties – all in combination with a significant improvement in player protection. [[Abg. Smoking: Did you agree with Mrs. Glavischnig?]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: We already needed transparency at the choir master!]] In the pipeline, too, the Party Finance Act, which allows us to control the parties by the Court of Auditors, provides for glass party funds and lays down more stringent penalties for the crossing of electoral costs and extended reporting obligations. There, where corruption has already happened, justice has to be determined, with all the consequence and – that is central – completely independent and undistorted. We Greens in this government guarantee that Minister of Justice Alma Zadić guarantees that justice can determine independently and without interference. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Good luck it was in Karenz!]] [[Abg. Scherak: The WKSTA...!]] Werner Kogler, in the representation of Alma Zadić, abolished the three-day reporting obligation to the Chief Prosecutor's Office. [[Abg. Lightness: What about the ÖVP?]] The other reporting obligations will also be reformed. Green ministers stand up for the protection of justice. [[Call at the SPÖ:And before the blossom!]] I believe that this judicial system should now be able to clarify the allegations in the room. In this debate too, it is clear that the Greens in the Government would be exactly the same as everyone else, but in addition to the measures I have just listed, which will strengthen transparency and the fight against corruption, it is easy to see how greens do this. [[Abg. Havenecker: Badger! Worse!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] Leonore Geessler has 19 corporate holdings in her resort, the climate resort. [[Abg. Belakovich: This is not the subject at all!]] [[Abg. Kickl: It looks dark when you're not face-to-face!]] I now quote the ‘curriculum’, which has commented on the orders made by the largest company in the country, namely the ÖBB: ‘PDO Supervisory Board: The clever tactics of the green minister. Comeback from ex-SPÖ politician Brigitte Ederer, no green party occupations, FPÖ representatives are outside”. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Ah! That's how party politics goes!]] And then we're going to go on: “The green politician now managed with the new occupation not only a surprise coup, but a strategic bravour piece.” [[Abg. Hafenecker: Postenschacher like the ÖVP!]] “No new Supervisory Boards belong to the Greens and all are professionally competent.” Unfortunately, this need to be emphasized is the result of decades of party book economy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: Is now part of corruption!]] [[Abg. Kickl: She has no confidence in the Greens!]] By the way, Leonore Wiessler managed to increase the women's rate in the supervisory councils from 37 percent to 49 percent, i.e. to half. This also shows: There is no problem with the quota. You just have to want it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have entered this government with the promise: clean environment, clean policy. And that's how we do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e6346	Mrs Klubobfrau Meinl-Reisinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e6368	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators! Perhaps you can remember the words of the President of the Federal Republic: “This is not how we are.” – He said that, and I admit that sometimes I wish he would take the floor again now, because, as after the Ibiza video became known, it would be very time-consuming. He also said: "Sometimes politicians come off their way. Crossing borders, hurting people, destroying trust". He pleaded that politicians and politicians, too, should bear responsibility. “Think,” he said, “what you can do for Austria. Ask You don't: Does it help me in the election? Does it help Austria? Does it help us inside and strengthen our credibility in the world?" Not even two years later, we are here discussing really embarrassing chat protocols, which have become public and which prove very impressively what is left of the new style of the ach so new People's Party, namely nothing, but nothing at all. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] [[Abg. Hafenecker:... old failed!]] In my opinion, these chats prove that not only has it been about giving posts, but also that a party and a person – we also know who, the current head of Öbag Thomas Schmid as Secretary General in the Ministry of Finance – has committed nothing but abuse of power and has created a law and a call for tender so that he can get this post. Of course, he has prepared a tender for himself, one could also say manipulated, and then, of course, – and this is particularly disturbing – he has chosen the Supervisory Board, which has voted in favour of the position being occupied with him. What is particularly disturbing to me is this criterion of steering, control, which – and I am saying this as a woman – has been discussed in particular when it comes to women. I find that particularly remarkable. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I always wonder, If I were a supervisory councillor there – I tell you quite honestly – I would throw it out to you, because I would not have deserved that there is such talk. In all clarity, however, these chats reveal how shameless and how – honestly – the ÖVP is completely unresponsible when it comes to the care of their family members. This turquoise mask or brand of the new style, the new access that was built there, has really liked it, and it becomes visible this very, very bad old style. The Ibiza Committee of Inquiry, which, as I know, is very much diffused, discredited and torpedated by the ÖVP and, unfortunately, by the chairman Wolfgang Sobotka, is one of the most important research committees of the Republic. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Sebastian Kurz has said a truth in this committee of inquiry. He said he didn't invent the system. - That's right. But what he didn't say: He and his turkise clique have made it quite perfect, driven to the top and turned on. I wonder if this is the promise that you made in 2017 and also in 2019, when there were full-bodied statements after Ibiza, so that once and for all they could clean up. “That’s not how we are,” I would like to say, but I said two years ago that you should actually say: That's not how we're supposed to be. – It is also possible that we are not like that, with stronger laws and much more transparency – I am still talking about that. This moral image of a corrupt system – and it is, of course, corruption, that is not a purely criminal concept; not criminal law is the extreme line that can and must be drawn here –, this moral image of a corrupt system of power and the arts industry is a moral image that ultimately also contributed to the creation of NEOS in 2012. It's true: That didn't invent the People's Party. For 70 years, we have looked at how two parties divided the country, and then we have to watch how the FPÖ is in the middle of it instead of just when it comes to their own feeding tricks. But I'll tell you something: These chats are not only a result of a moral image that we all already know, but they are above all very highly urgent – one is just getting in the way of it – and, as I say to you, unprofessional. Mr. Minister, you said: Well, each of us might have written some salopp! – That’s right, that can be already: with friends and so on. But it is not about state resources, it is not about abuse of power and it is not about the Republic's tax money. It's not about putting people somewhere that finally manage this state property. [[In the case of NEOS, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Stögmüller.]] ‘That is not normal.’ This is what the “South German newspaper” has written and, as I think, it really is very impressive which list of scandals is currently in place, because it is actually a corruption summary that we are seeing. It is not normal if Postenschacher is heeded. It is also not normal for Parliament, the Committee of Inquiry, the Justice, the Constitution and, yes, independent journalists to be trampled on. It's not normal either, and it's not fun if we have to show the Federal Chancellor for a false statement because he said wrong in the investigation committee. It is not normal if a section head in the Ministry of Justice, even after he is no longer in charge, is given files and is obviously available as a consultant to an accused person. It's a two-class court. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Or can anyone in Austria turn to Mr Pilnacek to discuss how his statement should look in the public prosecutor's office? - I don't think so. [[Abg. Hafenecker: No, just the ÖVP!]] It is also not normal for a President of Parliament, who should actually stand above the parties, to conduct an investigation committee despite the inconsistency of the parties and torpede it again and again. [[Abg. Kickl: He doesn't know what that is!]] That's not normal. Call me naïve, but I have gone into politics to make a contribution that politics will improve that Austria will become more future-fitter, that we will work together on how we bring our country forward, and not work on how you can expand your power. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, yes!]] Many people are actually worried about the direction in which it will go. This is not even a matter of this corruption, but also of how you, the People's Party, are dealing with it: once again with the attempt to discredit justice, discredit independent journalists, discredit, defamation, and torpedo the investigation committee. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Again: The standard must not be criminal law! It can't be that we're moving as a policy after that: All that is not forbidden, we can do! - I can't do that! I can't! [[Abg. Hoefinger: Then leave out the brandy!]] Such a policy must not be possible, and it must not at all be possible for a policy which is always based only on surveys. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] But the good news I want to come to now is: We can change that. We all have this in hand – you have promised your voters; You have so far broken it, but you have promised it – through tighter laws and legal framework conditions in which such a system is not possible; through a system of complete transparency, genuine public tendering and public hearing, with genuinely transparent party finances and control by the Court of Auditors; through a system in which illegal party funding becomes a criminal offence, and also through a system with significantly reduced electoral costs, and, as I think, also a time limit, because every power is not only controlled but also limited. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] These would be proposals from NEOS, and they've all been on the table for years. You don't have to wait for the greens in the government either. It is all possible for Parliament to make a self-confident decision. It is possible to set this up in order to create one thing in particular: restore people's confidence in politics, because this trust will damage you in most cases. Now I would like to say something to you, because the opposition is constantly being said at such chats: I find it tiresome to stand here and talk about such embarrassing chat news, post-achievers and corruption, while we are in the biggest crisis of the Second Republic and should instead stand here and debate what best approaches there are to bring our country back to the fore; at a time when we should stand here and think about how we create prosperity, upswing, growth, how we cope with the crisis, combat unemployment and create the best education system. Instead, we stand here and have to discuss it, not for the sake of opposition – we do not have to – but because we owe it to people, because we have to give them a voice that says: [[Abg. Fürlinger: We don't have to!]] [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] If you don't say anything now, then only power and omnipotent fantasies remain and our powerless power, which we are not part of this turquoise family. My appeal and my offer is: Let us finally remove this corruption and this post-chapter – we can do this here in Parliament if everyone wants to be here – and finally devote ourselves to the topics of the future! [[Call the ÖVP:... Hazelsteiner...!]] One last thing: Of course, every day you continue in office is also a day on which you damage this office, Mr Blümel.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e6545	Mrs Prince is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e6566	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Call to the ÖVP: Kickl is done!]] I would like to comply with Mr Hanger's wish to hold an objective, content-based debate here, and to give him the same objective direction: If you are here and boast that the Minister of Finance is paying EUR 34 billion in economic aid, which is a success, then I must say: What about the ÖVP as an economic party? – These are not profits! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] Business profits benefit jobs and create social security. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and bravoruf des Abg. Worm.]] [[Abg. Hanger: Mrs. Prince, you have to organize this! For God's sake!]] Economic assistance is support, alms that would not be necessary if you did not pursue such a responsible corona policy. They are only necessary if you have destroyed something before. [[Abg. Hanger: Do you really think this is serious? Have you thought we've got a pandemic around the world?- Oh, my God!]] That's what you're doing day by day, especially with small businesses, gastronomy and hotels, all of which have had really convincing hygiene concepts and have shown that there are no clusters there. They still leave them locked up without any perspective. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'm really sorry. The higher the aid, the bigger the disaster! It is also interesting to say to the Greens: If you're talking about transparent posts here, we'll just open up the occupations in the Federal Museums, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Infrastructure, where you're also famous for the fact that the women's quota is so high. That means you shot quite a lot of people before, because otherwise there would have been no room for these new occupations. This was obviously only for the sake of party policy and will not now be related to the qualification. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister, you wanted less scandalisation and pre-condemnification. I think this is a legitimate concern, and I am happy to follow it. I would also like to point out that it is really a major legal scandal that the judicial acts always have private chats or chats in general, that these files become public and are dealt with accordingly, regardless of whether they are purely private chats you formulate salopp, which have so much Zur-Sache-Schätzchen-Niveau, or chats that may have a criminal relevance. They also belong not to the media, but to the judicial acts, to the prosecutors and courts. But you should talk to your coalition partner, who is occupied by the Ministry of Justice and who obviously has no problem with it. Now they are out there, random findings, as it is now called. By the way, I am not only disturbed by the fact that such secret content becomes public when it concerns our party, but also when it concerns the ÖVP or a political competitor. In terms of content, we sit here because of political responsibility. It is about the occupation of the Chairman of the Board of State, who manages 26 billion euros of state resources, which we will still need well in view of the billion destruction that is currently being carried out by Corona policy. There is the question of whether the Chairman of the Board should be a financial officer who is certainly capable and loyal – above all to you. The question is whether he really feels so strongly connected to the Öbag, to the state's assets and thus to the Austrian population, or whether it would not have been better to put a manager there. To appoint the Supervisory Board: Yes, I always miss a comment from the women. Now we know what the ÖVP really thinks about the women's quota. I'm right there with Mrs. Spiegelfeld. But we've never imagined that we're for the women's rate. We were always only for qualified women, but so it is if you have to look for women, so to speak, tight and just because of the quota. However, there has never been a comment on this. Here in the plenary hall is always the talk of experts, virologists and virologists – the Greens are even talking about terrorists in front of loud genderies – but as said: One of these is in front of the camera, and how is it really? - We have a certain contrast. Taxability is of course also a question: Is this Supervisory Board, which has been occupied according to the Taxability criterion, capable of finding a really good, qualified successor in this occupation? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] We'll take a look at that, hopefully. In any case, it would be very crucial in view of the collating damage you are now doing day by day.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e6654	Mr Stocker is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e6711	“Moral indignation is the holy light of the hypocrites.” [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: (pointing to the Bureau)... for Sobotka!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen at home! This quote is from Helmut Qualtinger and was given to me by my colleague Rudolf Taschner because it characterizes so well what the urgent request here includes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let us try it for a change also for the opposition with the truth! The truth is that the Öbag is a success story for the Republic and for taxpayers. [[Abg. Belakovich: Oh, you!]] [[Abg. Kickl: But not that!]] The truth is that the appointment of the Board of Directors has been made by the competent bodies within the framework of the statutory provisions. The truth is that the supervisory councils have been nominated by the government as part of the use and practice and that highly qualified persons have been selected as capital representatives. [[Abg. Belakovich: Steering bar must be stopped!]] The truth is that during the Board of Directors of Mr. Mag. Schmid according to the ÖIAG law, the performance of Öbag is an excellent one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Whoever wants to attribute this to you then, it is ultimately a responsibility of the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board and thus it is also a success of these institutions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: “Get everything you want! ”]] That's what I'm getting to the opposition. There's no such thing as the deep state you're under the ÖVP. [[Abg. Kickl: You're still in there too long!]] Deeply, Mr Nog-Klubobmann Kickl, is that which was offered here by your group in particular. I know that opposition means being present. [[Abg. Belakovich: You don't know what opposition is!]] I know you've internalized this in your party so much that you're even in opposition to your party observer. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] Here on the verge of debate on the obligation to wear masks: I do not want to harm your party observer, whom I very much appreciate – but most respect for his attitude on this question! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That, in the context of this discussion, of the opposition in great indignation that political orders are made here, in which the second is called for a political constituency against the right to share – I have not heard such a thing either. The economic competence of NEOS and SPÖ is something, given that I ask – freely to Sepp Schellhorn –: What about you? if you ask what you are criticizing right now in the request. [[Abg. Belakovich: Now the speaking time is already over again!]] - I'll be right there. The Minister of Finance has done what the people expect from him, namely, within the framework of the pandemic, to support businesses with economic assistance, to secure income through grants, and to deal with the health crisis together with the Federal Government and the Federal Chancellor so that we can regain our normal life. It employs the population who employs this government, and this government is extremely successful, even if it does not suit you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I conclude by saying: I thank you for the work of the entire Federal Government, especially the Minister of Finance and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, also in connection with the procurement of vaccines, which really hits a nerve and affects the population. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner.]] I congratulate you on these successes. I'm sure that the pandemic can be handled. The concerns that you have and that are largely passing by the population, you can explain to us in your oppositional manner – if I may put it this way carefully – in the house. We like to deal with this, but in the end, one thing is to say: What you blame us here is not to be outlawed by hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e6905	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e6966	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! The Minister of Finance has said that he loves Parliament. – With me he is up and down, so this love should not extend to all of us as it looks. [[on the empty place of Federal Minister Blümel on the government bank looking]] [[Abg. He's right!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] What has been revealed in recent weeks, ladies and gentlemen? – The so-called new turquoise style, announced pompously, has proved to be exactly what this government is otherwise doing, namely as a show, as a pure show, ladies and gentlemen. A swamp of mail chess, superiority, sexism, corruption investigations, house searches – yes, that's the new turquoise style, and that's a style that's even worse than the old black style, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Especially now that we should jointly mobilise all the forces to deal with this difficult situation, in which we are now, and fight against the pandemic, combat unemployment, fight hopelessness, this government is paralysed because one scandal after another makes the government in truth unable to act. These chats between Mr. Schmid, Mr. Finanzminister and the Chancellor on the one hand reveal this incredible arrogance and superiority on the other, but on the other hand, that not the Republic, the people of Austria, are the concern of these turquoise Cliques, but that the Turkish Clique itself is the exclusive concern of these people who work there. This is something that does not help us in the fight against pandemics or in the fight against unemployment, which does not at all help this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To this strange talk about the “family”: Francis Ford Coppola would probably have brought it a little better than the protagonists who do it now, but this “family” is nothing but a tight turquoise Clique, in which one does something to the other. Then Mr Blümel comes in on several interviews – he is still not here – greeting you, Mr Blümel, nice of you! – and always says he doesn't know anything, he can't remember anything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] [[Federal Minister Blümel returns to the hall and takes his place again]] [[Abg. Hanger: The first friendly word from you!]] Mr Blümel, this is such an unbelievable thing! You were ÖVP Secretary General, you were government coordinator, you're still finance ministers, and you're saying you don't know anything about it. This is in the Francis-Ford Coppola films of the Consigliere, he knows everything, Mr. Blümel. That's embarrassing when you say you don't know anything. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then we come to Mr Schmid, who is still kept and covered by you. [[Abg. Hanger: Mr. Leichtfried, you...?]] I'll tell you one thing: Any Austrian worker, any employee who had driven it so far, would have been cancelled or dismissed. What's Mr. Schmid doing? – It continues to cash, for a whole year again 600 000 euros. For this, normal Austrians have to work 15 years. This is your view of justice, Mr. Blümel, and your view of fairness and morality. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Blümel to return to the topic of family: Let me make a suggestion, I give you a good advice: Make an offer to the Öbag Supervisory Board and Mr. Schmid, which they cannot reject. They're supposed to go right away, Mr. Blümel, and you'd better go right away. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you do not, we will now make a joint request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Prince: Mrs Rendi-Wagner has not applauded!]] Finally, one last comment – because it's so up-to-date now – so that the people in Austria know how to tick and what you're worth: Some time ago, a large Austrian gambling group with its fingers has been voting – with its fingers! . because they wanted to pay less taxes in Italy, and the whole government to the Federal Chancellor, who therefore agreed an appointment with the Italian Foreign Minister, who spoke about it, is hopped. What's now? – A large group extortions people, employees in Steyr, a large group tries to lock a work in Steyr despite incredible profits, and what does the Austrian Federal Government do down from the Federal Chancellor? - Nothing, don't touch any earwashing! That's the difference in your client policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[13:51]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e7263	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Member of the Stögmüller has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e7287	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! In the last special session on Causa Schmid, I also announced to you, Minister, that we are looking at the text delivered to us in the investigation committee very carefully, each text. The text messages are here now, they are – I don't know – like toothpaste: What you've pushed out too much is somehow trying to get back into the tube, each of us knows that. They are here now, and they are not only embarrassing – you have said that, Mr Minister, even in the Committee of Inquiry – they show a shameless approach. In this text there is a moral picture of politics that no one in Austria would have liked to see. You can read how a Secretary-General is shooting his own power instrument in the form of Öbag, or, as you yourself mentioned in the text, a "SchmidAG", with an Emoji for it. They say: This is saloppe's chatter between two people who have known each other long and intensively. - I don't think so. Unfortunately, it shows – which we have long suspected in the Committee of Inquiry – a parallel system far away from the interests of the people that have been installed, or better have been re-installed; it has been there for a long time. The tender was made appropriate, the closest employees helped with the application letter. It was more important that there was an air conditioning in the Colingasse and who deserves how much, than even thinking about whether the own approach is somehow already in the context of reluctance. Mr Minister, it is now the right step for Schmid to stop extending the Treaty, but it is just one step. Quite honest: An even faster and above all more consistent approach would have been appropriate. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Sir.]] After all, Öbag is concerned with the family silver of all the people living in Austria, with 26 billion euros of state resources being managed there. Sure, we must also address our appeal to the Supervisory Board. We will receive new file deliveries every month in the Investigation Committee, re-swirl all files and create links, we will receive more text from Schmid each month. A Finance Minister, a Supervisory Board does not want to read about such a scandal every month about the largest public-owned company in the media. You can't want that! At least we in the Committee of Inquiry will not stop clarifying political relevance, we can promise. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] The greens stand for two things: clean environment and clean policy. We in the Committee of Inquiry also look at the windows of a political system of the past and will continue to make this clear when there are inconsistencies there. I would also like to make an appeal to Mr Hafenecker, who first spoke very well to us, and to remind him again why this Committee of Inquiry really exists: There is him because in Ibiza two Haberers of you have made statements in a situation – that is why there is him. [[Abg. Stefan:... have been thrown into a trap!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] FPÖ has played brilliantly in this system and had the system – and we have to make it clear – expanded and expanded. [[Abg. Kickl: But they have resigned!]] We know that from the files we have. [[Abg. Kickl: (pointing to the government bank) You're still in office!]] You don't need to play the innocence lamb here, but you're part of the system and part of the problem. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You don't have to take care of justice either. Justice takes care of the criminal relevance, including the colleagues from your party, dear colleagues from the FPÖ, you are still in the files and hang there as well. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Mr. Kogler? Where?]] Justice determines, independent and also overturned, and that is also a good thing. One, ladies and gentlemen, we can also promise you: We Greens will strengthen justice. We will. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: You won't be there anymore!]] We will strengthen them, and we will also be fully protecting ourselves from justice, no matter who is being attacked. Justice must be independent, even if it is going to be delicate in the rule of law, and I am quite sure that Mrs Zadić, Minister of Justice, will ensure that, ladies and gentlemen, too. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] One more appeal: Mr Finanzminister, let us look together at all our assets in Öbag and protect it! The next weeks and months it will not be possible to simply sit down the scandal, that is not an option, we are quite convinced of that. [[Call at the FPÖ:... will be decisive!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e7448	Member of the European Parliament is speaking on behalf of Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e7470	Mr President. Estimated Minister of Finance! Mrs. State Secretary! Minister on the government bank! Since 2018 we have been taking care of the Öbag. Since 2018, we have been concerned about how a man from the Ministry of Finance has attributed himself to the position of the Board of Directors of Öbag. I'd like to start with a few quotes. First quote: It's not about me, it's about us, it's about the Republic of Austria. - Quote. The second is: I'll give you a promise: A change that started here two years ago will not end today. They can adapt to us, they can choose us, but they can certainly not choose from the change that comes from the new People's Party. - Quote. This is not the Federal President, that is the largest gambler and clock on Austrian soil, on European soil, and that is Federal Chancellor Kurz. [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] That's the point. I believe that this responsibility must not be forgotten today, because I want to know what the whole ÖVP says about it if you present the poster to her today: “One who looks at our values.” What are your values? - What was delivered here. I am sure that most of the people here in plenary, Mr. Finanzminister, have already sent some of his friends such text messages, including sluggish text messages, but not when it comes to state ownership or to some of the things being done. That's a different dimension. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] This moral bankruptcy that you have provided, this moral bankruptcy proposal that the ÖVP delivers here and speaks beautifully, is an insanity, a blow to the face for every taxpayer, for every taxpayer! This is about the family silver and nothing else. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is a moral bankruptcy if one assumes that one puts the church under pressure. It is a moral bankruptcy request of the ÖVP if one assumes that the retail investor Rasinger is being fitted. It's a moral bankruptcy proposal if you're holding down the women's rate. This is a moral bankruptcy, and it is no longer to stand! [[I would like to appeal to Mr Neos and Mr SPÖ, as well as to the members of the FPÖ.]] We like to talk about morality, which is a different dimension. I also admit that this has very, very surprised me, and I want to know what the ÖVP says about their values now. When I read this from the church, I asked myself: How many entrepreneurs will there be who fear a bit now, because when they puddle up, someone from the Ministry of Finance sends control once, so that he keeps the goss forever? – It can't be! [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] The question which my previous speakers have not raised at all is: What about the Supervisory Board? What is the responsibility of the Supervisory Board? Dr. Stocker referred to the Supervisory Board. I may address § 75, “Order and appointment of the Executive Board”. Here it is clear and clear! Then let's look at the job description law, § 6. You have all the possibilities that you would rather replace Mr. Schmid today than tomorrow, and you should do so, because it says the law so. [[I would like to appeal to Mr Neos and Mr SPÖ, as well as to the members of the FPÖ.]] Every holding of this man makes this statesman extortionable. We know that! And with this failure and this extortionability, it must stop! With these values of the ÖVP, it has to stop seeing everything – as has always been practiced for 30 years, but it has not been done so now, because no one believed that there is a technical solution to bring out the text again. That's the point and nothing else! This is a moral bankruptcy of the ÖVP and a blow to the face for every taxpayer and for every taxpayer!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e7558	Mr Schnedlitz is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e7590	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The once so proud People's Party: How is it for you and your officials if you have to explain in the middle of the crisis that you cannot solve problems because you have to take care of the house rules in Parliament? Who could not go here and bring the only logical true explanation that this is only for the purpose of covering your own corruption summit? You can also be hard to go out to the people and say: That's just why you don't care that we've been thinking about something for years. To support this one, I have simply brought election posters from the Austrian People's Party, which we can take a short look at. [[placing the image of an election poster on the speaker's desk]] You have pasted: “A new style. It’s time,” ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Hafenecker: It's time to go!]] Now, of course, you could say: We have meant with a new style the friendly economy, the corruption swamp, the business-making in the middle of the crisis, with tests, with masks and the like, everything that flies in the investigation committee, between flowering, blacksmith, sun chancellor and co. Only: The voters expected something else. All those who have given you their voice have been expecting something else under this new style, but definitely not that you are taking hold of the state and so on in their pockets, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then I brought a second poster: [[another image of a election poster on the speaker's desk]] ‘Tun, what’s right. If you look very closely, it's very small written: ‘For Austria.’ You will already have known why you write this so small, ladies and gentlemen, because it was then relatively quickly exchanged after you came to power, namely: Do what is right – for your own stock exchange, for your own bag apparently, for your own CV, for your own friends and your own friend economy. That also explains why you wrote it so small. But I'm with you, you could still say: Well, we didn't mean it so wrong, that's just a little change. At the third poster, my employees made a small mistake, and they just confused it in a little bit with your poster. [[a picture of a strange ÖVP poster with the counterfee of Silvio Berlusconis with the inscription “La Famiglia” on the speaker’s desk]] Of course, this can happen if the Minister of Finance himself likes to act as a different person, namely, Danilo or what I know. Ladies and gentlemen, also at home, you have to ask yourself the question: Why does a Finance Minister use an e-mail address with a fake name? What's behind that, and what's going on? What's up with you? Dear viewers and ÖVP functionaries: How many of you have two e-mail addresses with fake names? [[Call the SPÖ: Probably everyone!]] – All of the officials of the ÖVP, says the SPÖ. That could be, but normal, ladies and gentlemen, it's not. Of course, my employees can also get confused between this gentleman and you when it comes to talking about abuse of power when we talk about media abuse, when we talk about dirty parties, accusations of corruption, manipulation and co. The only thing I have not noticed at Mr Berlusconi is that the bussis between Chancellors, Minister of Finance and Mr. Schmid is flying back and forth. If you follow these chats, Mr. Finanzminister, the word "loving" gets a completely new meaning in you, just as you seem to use it and how you live it in your family. But I will take this away again, because I do not want to do completely wrong to Mr Berlusconi either. [[remove the corresponding image from the speaker's console]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is that because of this, you are in power with your family. It is a damage to the taxpayer, a damage to the Republic, a damage to our Austria, a damage to our country. In order to correct at least a small mistake, Mr Stögmüller, you can now vote with everyone, because you all complained when it came to calling Mr. Schmid up faster. Otherwise, once your base explains your Sunday speeches here, if you don't keep it. Now we would have the opportunity to find a majority for exactly what you were talking about. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Tell him by SMS: I'm sorry. Bussi. – I don't know how you do that, he'll do it, and it would definitely be very helpful to our country. Ladies and gentlemen! This damage is not the only one because the ÖVP does not even stop before our fundamental values in Austria, in front of the Catholic Church, in front of Christianity. The ORF writes relatively well that this would have had something to do with the FPÖ in the government. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! The FPÖ has absolutely nothing to do with this, and we are ashamed that at this time we were in a government with you at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because this damage simply grows out and of course I also know how you – the black functionals and the black base – need to be ashamed of you, I just suggest that we take the saying of Sebastian Kurz from the poster: “It is time”, ladies and gentlemen – time to pack the family and take the hat! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[14:07]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e7767	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Kugler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e7798	Mr President. Dear Minister on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not about amical forms of expression, but it is really about the question of the rule of law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] It is what Mr Schellhorn is looking for here or what Mr Schnedlitz meant by: What values? – The values of the rule of law. And it's part of a rule of law that the owner is also considering which personnel he employs. That too, dear NEOS, is liberal. And if the state chooses people who are competent on the one hand, but who also enjoy the confidence of politics because they have to work with politics, that is the right thing and no abuse of power. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear colleague Meinl-Reisinger and colleague Leichfried! Her playful excitement was not credible today. We have heard the word on several occasions – and I would like to join in there. We have read a study that reports on political occupation in Austria. The biggest increase in the political occupation of posts was under the German Chancellor's climate and caste builder. Let's see what the SPÖ in Vienna is doing: For decades there have been posts filled with relatives, with relatives of officials, with people from their own offices. And even worse is: We also have companies that first received a grant order from the city of Vienna or a contract for implementation, in which then SPÖ functionaries switch. And this is happening not only once, but for decades! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This was written to the left hunting society in the main book: If you do that, it's okay when it's civil, is it a scandal? – That’s not how it can be done! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] A second principle in the rule of law, however, is that people are judged by performance. The head of the board of directors of Öbag has said that Thomas Schmid is highly qualified and that there are hardly any complaints about his management. Otherwise, it is with SPÖ-run companies. I'm telling you, if you spoke yesterday about the million tomb of Öbag, I'm talking about the billion tomb SPÖ. The nationalists in the 1980s – 55,000 jobs have been lost –, consumption, Bawag; these are just keywords. [[Abg. Matznetter: Learn history, ladies and gentlemen!]] I'm telling you, too. Hospital Nord, 500 million euros in sand, or power plants built that will never be put into operation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The value is the rule of law. You know what doesn't fit the rule of law yet? . If one continues to make mistrust applications or withdrawal requests when Mr. Co. Hafenecker says that Malversation should lead to the indictment bank. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] What kind of democratic understanding is that? We have a crisis in Austria, and we have a Finance Minister, who is a crisis manager, who is at the forefront in Europe as regards the promotions and the speed of disbursement of these grants. And the soup you cook is getting thinner and thinner. Nothing new has come about for two months. [[Abg. Belakovich: Nothing new?! The chats! Perhaps you can read it again, Mrs. Colleague!]] This soup is so thin that it has no nutrients. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The value is the rule of law, and this also includes the protection of personal rights. If private conversations are leaked, found in files and widened in the public, I wonder: What about the rights of personality in Austria? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] I now quote from the laws that are valid: Insignificant must not be part of a file. Those investigations must be carried out “which are most likely to affect the rights of those concerned, ” namely,“ in a way that avoids unnecessary attention, respect the dignity of the persons concerned, and uphold their rights and legitimate interests. ” [[Abg. Kickl: That's true for you, too!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The purpose does not sanctify the means, no matter what person and party it is about. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And politicians are not free-wild. We do not want to be treated better, but we do not want to be treated worse either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Each of us, each of you and each of the viewers has sometime expressed themselves in a private conversation so that he does not want to read it in the newspaper. If some are not sure, then no one is safe anymore. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] So it's about the rule of law. And to whom the rule of law is not important, it does not have to speak of human rights at all. But it is also about the community, and it is about combating pandemics in Austria, it is about combating the consequences of the pandemic, it is about jobs, it is about children, it is about families. I believe that we should work together on these issues instead of fighting each other.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e7951	Mrs Holzleitner has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e7972	First: Full solidarity towards Steyr! Dear employees at MAN, we are on your side! Let's fight for the preservation of the site! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: That doesn't help them either!]] – That doesn’t help anymore because the ÖVP has let them all down. Even if I hear this call – really! The ÖVP has abandoned the employees there. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In the Ö1 “Morgenjournal”, Landesrat Achleitner – we hear only –: Yes, the EU is giving money, blah, blah, blah! – They leave the employees there in the lurch! Unbelievable! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But let's go to the next, really real, inconceivable! Who reads these chats – apologies for the dignity of the House –: Fucking woman, shit quota, taxable women! These chats are simply downhearted and do not deserve the respect of all women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] What have you heard from the ÖVP up to now? – No excuse, no debate on these disdainful issues, but in the Federal Council just the answer: Our women's image is contemporary and appropriate! - That's inconceivable! The last time we got such a moral image in front of us was in a finca in Ibiza. But what is it about today? – At the time, the profile of a board of directors was perfectly roomd by Secretary General Thomas Schmid himself and by his hand- spanners. There have been talks about who should sit in the Supervisory Board, that you have to eat with them, so that they are well-weighted. There have been intense discussions about who would take you from the Ministry of Finance to Öbag before the call for tender was outside, and so on. With them were short and blossoms everywhere, which is well apparent in the chats. It's actually worse than a crime series. The swing that Thomas Schmid is still sitting where he is sitting today, unfortunately, I also have to put a bite on the greens. I don't understand why Vice-Chancellor Kogler is simply so relaxed. If we're already in the show: The time of Netflix and Chill is over, just when I think of the colleagues Stögmüller and Tomaselli. We are really fighting together in the Committee of Inquiry for educational work, but the green tip has really given transparency, cleanliness and propriety a very serious setback. Unfortunately, I just have to say that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] We need a comprehensive reform of Öbag, so I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Do you know what's bothering me most? These chat messages, this ÖVP's moral image, fall back on all of us, because what do people say outside? – Politics is corrupt, politics, it's about abuse of power, politics, it's about post-chakers. That's what's falling back on all of us. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They have all made sure that we are thrown with dirt every day, and have just really got the whole policy and our entire stand in the trash. It's just inconceivable! We all have to live with what you're astounding. At the federal level, every party in this House really has a better retreat culture than the ÖVP – every party! – Thank you very much for nothing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] [[14:17]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e8149	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Prammer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e8173	Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! The news we are talking about today is at least mostly about the material available to the Ibiza Investigation Committee. They have come there because they are found in files which result from the investigation work of the judiciary. The Court of Justice finds that in many of these cases the Court of Justice has, for a variety of reasons, brought criminal proceedings against a wide range of persons and has demonstrated this material as part of its investigation. That is why we can even talk about it here. That is why it is also so important for the Committee of Inquiry to devote itself to political responsibility on the one hand, but on the other hand, in the judicial system, to clarify the criminal responsibility for these operations. To this end, it must be said that it has shown how important and how correct it is that Minister of Justice Alma Zadić conducts this place. From the very beginning, it has made itself quite clear and vehement against all attacks on justice. It has denied that justice itself and the judicial staff are being attacked in their independence. It has not only strengthened and stressed this independence by words, but has also ensured that this independence is guaranteed within the ministry through restructurings in its own ministry. The importance and the correctness of this restructuring and the good instinct it has proved to be has now proved quite clearly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, it has been the case that among the predecessors there have been practices which have not done well either by the judicial system or by the rule of law. As one of the first measures in her office, she has greatly increased the judicial budget – not only once, but even twice. These increases have not least flowed into the public prosecutors, in better personnel equipment, in better expertise, and last but not least, the WKStA has benefited from them. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] At the same time, through the changes in reporting obligations, it has also made it possible for public prosecutors to identify better and more efficiently. It is also clear how important it is that we have made this government the way we have formed it, and that Minister of Justice Alma Zadić makes the right and necessary decisions with a combination of courage and integrity. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is also seen that the judiciary has self-cleaning forces that work very well if you just leave them. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] Before the question comes: No, we will not, of course, limit the scope for investigation against corruption. How do we get to it? Why should we do that? – Today, it has often fallen, this criticised provision is not a StPO reform, as it is often called, but it is part of the BAT reform. [[Call the FPÖ: Because the ÖVP wants!]] With this reform, we have fundamentally redesigned this authority, we have brought more clarity, more transparency, more legal protection and more control to that authority, so that it can work properly again in exchange with foreign services and work for the population in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What should be achieved by this controversial provision was that first sensitive data should be protected in the event of confiscation – well-known: in the event of confiscation and not from confiscation – and that second, the primacy of official assistance already enshrined in the case law is defined. What is in no way to be achieved is that in any form investigation steps, in particular investigations against corruption, should be hindered. If experts have now noted this reading of the provision, I can assure you from this point of view: If this reading is actually the only one possible or if there are any misunderstandings, then this provision will not be decided. We will certainly not decide to restrict the powers of investigation in any way. We want to protect sensitive intelligence data. What we certainly do not want to protect is corrupt politicians and corrupt officials – you can rely on it!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e8244	Members of the European Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e8265	Mr President! High house! Values Members of the Federal Government! Mr Finanzminister! We have always heard in recent weeks, Thomas Schmid is doing an excellent job, almost alone he has increased the value of Öbag by EUR 5 billion. Yes, so I think not only the experts agree, but also those who own a few shares themselves or deal with the stock market a little bit, know that this does not really have much to do with the work of Mr. Schmid. [[irradiated]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS and the Deputies of Krainer and Worm.]] But what Mr. Thomas Schmid already has something to do with is the OMV. You know the story: Last year, the OMV increased its shares to 75 percent at the Borealis. How's it going to be? – Simple: Thomas Schmid is responsible for the participations of Austria through Öbag's Board of Directors. The Republic of Austria owns 31 per cent of the OMV, so there is, as it were, the Konnex. Another connex: In this position he was also sent to the Supervisory Board of the OMV, not only as a simple Supervisory Board member, no, even as Deputy Supervisory Board. So the circle closes, and that's why there's a connection. What happened? – I have already mentioned it: The OMC has strategically increased the borealis parts, which can be done, which is strategically certainly comprehensible. But what happened? – For some months now, there has been this accusation that the OMC has, knowingly, paid too much for these shares. Last week, an anonymous paper was sent to me, which says that the OMC Board of Directors really has information that clearly indicates that the price paid for the Borealis shares could be too high. In fact, it is very clearly explained that there has been price-reducing information from the Borealis, which has also been sent to the OMC Board. In the name of Mr. Thomas Gangl, who would have had this information available – that is to read in the paper – but who did not share this information with the OMC Supervisory Board. Of course, it is surprising why, if a company has information that could possibly reduce prices, it has not been shared with the Supervisory Board. Now, of course, one can say that the Supervisory Board was linked, they knew nothing about all that, that was the OMC board, but I already know that these documents have been on the move for several months. It is not true that this document has only been available since the last week, this document is also available to the Supervisory Boards. Now I'm back to the responsibility of Mr. Thomas Schmid: He is the deputy and has apparently not taken care of it. You would certainly expect that if you find out about this, you will say: Okay, there's a penalty to the board of directors, maybe there's even an appointment. – Mr. Thomas Gangl is already a member of the OMC Board, but he has been appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Borealis with much higher salary, with much higher bonuses and without tendering. So that's quite interesting. Then you have to say, of course: It was all known. Why didn't Thomas Schmid act there? Why didn't there come to be any reaction? – This is what we need to look at, of course, because, seriously, it is natural to consider whether legal Board or Supervisory Board obligations have been violated in the OMV; of course, this is also the subject of disciplinary, labour law and liability. We are also interested to see if there are criminal offences. We NEOS already have the suspicion of potential infidelity, and that is why we made a statement yesterday at the public prosecutor's office in Vienna. Of course, there is a political responsibility to be examined, because, Minister of Finance, in the Öbag Act, it is very clear that the Board of Directors, that is, Thomas Schmid, is obliged to report to you at any time on all the essential issues and decisions of Öbag. Well, if that's not an essential information right now, I have to be very surprised. Now I'm wondering, Did you know and not act? You didn't know, and you couldn't act like that? Or is it what one hears holding under the hand like this: Well, let's keep the ball flat, that's what's been discussed. That doesn't look good, it's really a really as devastating image as that with the chat protocols. In any case, we will ensure that we are informed, we will not let ourselves be influenced, we will not let go of it, because one thing is quite clear to me: It is not only about potential criminal offences that may have happened, but it is quite clear to me that we are getting up and saying that these dubious business practices are not feasible in Austria. These tricks are simply not worth it, even in a company in which the Republic is involved. That is to say, we are really concerned about the future of the company, about the future of the economic location and, ultimately, also about the future of the Austrian financial centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e8331	Mrs Yildirim is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e8352	Mr President. High house! Values Members of the Federal Government! Dear Seers! “And daily the Murmeltier greets” – many of us know this film: When the main actor wakes up in the morning, he experiences the same day again and again. Now one could almost believe that this film has become reality in Austria. Every day we have to experience that Corona keeps us firmly under control, that a light at the end of the tunnel tells us that the government praises their achievements and is always the other fault. The rulers try by all means and all power to present themselves as the saviors in distress. In addition to these productions, however, the management of the Corona crisis would require the fullest commitment, transparent action and the competition of the best ideas. Party political, ideological constraints and personal interests or obligations, for example to subordinate supporters, should not really play a role in this. It's nothing less than Austria. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] We experience that every day new details about the almost generally planned takeover of power in Austria come to light by a few. In doing so, there is a need for donations, pressure is exerted on justice, even pressure on the church, while posts are filled with taxable persons at all possible places, one could also say willing persons. There is a dense web weaving that secures your own preservation of power. All of this has now been made very clear from the well-known chat protocols, whose language, if it were not as serious in the matter, would be attributed practically more puberty teenagers than the highest representatives of Austria. In the middle of this carousel, ladies and gentlemen, there is the economic and corruption prosecutor's office, which takes its task seriously and determines in suspicion – without regard to the person and without a political pressure. How does the government react? – She tries with all her power, whether through public appearances, intimidation attempts at press conferences or hidden messages, the economic and corruption prosecutor’s office is now unable to fulfil its tasks. However, if in Austria the investigators are recently bound together by the plan to limit the scope of investigation, figuratively speaking hands and feet, certain procedures can virtually no longer be found. We must not allow this, ladies and gentlemen, to happen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore put to the vote a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I thank you in this sense and hope that reason will return to this House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[14:33]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e8554	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported, and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Götze is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e8579	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Dear audience in the hall and at home! We have now worked intensively on the recent past. I think it is time for us to draw our lessons from them, but at the same time also to look to the future. I would like to remind you at this point of what it is all about: It is about Öbag, the Austrian Beteiligungs AG of the Federal Government. It's been talked about a couple of times by the family silver, but what's that, this family silver? – These are State participations in many, the Who is who of Austrian companies: eleven companies, eleven state-owned holdings, a total of 27 billion euros make up these state-owned holdings. This means that every Austrian and every Austrian owns about 3 000 euros in these public participations. Nevertheless, family silver is not entirely affected, because it is a central issue for Austria, for the economic location. It is not only a material value, but also a value for the economic location and for our future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why for the future? – For a few reasons: First of all, the company is responsible for the smooth functioning of life and work in Austria. For example, when we look back at the last months, last year in the pandemic: The Telekom, part of this consortium, offers Wi-Fi and guarantees that video conferences really work well. We are supplied with electricity from the compound – also part of these companies – or fuels through the OMV – another company. The post office, including the post office, was responsible for ensuring that deliveries – including parcels, but also of course from other deliveries – worked well. In total, Öbag secures 135 000 jobs – in Öbag itself and in subcontractors; thus, it is a very important employer in Austria – 9 billion euros in taxes and, last but not least, gross value added of 15 billion euros. However, I do not think that is quite the case, because it is also about what this means for the future. Very important: Öbag's companies are crucial to the fact that in the future we can stand as an economic location that Austria has a future as an economic location. Innovations, such as broadband development and digitalisation, are driven by Öbag companies. How's it going? – It is about ensuring the sustainable economic location. Through Öbag, Austria wants to become a pioneer, the driver of ecologisation and digitization, for example through renewable energies. A suggestion: The combination does not yet offer – I hope soon – UZ-46 certified electricity. Why not? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] In the case of e-mobility, we are on a very good path, the topic of hydrogen is being researched, sustainable building and, last but not least, a circular economy is a great task, which, I believe, has not yet been sufficiently fulfilled. For example, we wish for more resource-efficient production, longer service life of the products – the borealis, the daughter of the OMV, can contribute through new, innovative materials – digitalization and therefore proper maintenance, also through the Internet of Things, sustainable logistics, the waste must be collected and brought back again – the post has a good order. [[Abg. Belakovich: What does this have to do with the item of the negotiation? What are you doing?]] That is to say, it is obvious that this is an important company that can make much progress for Austria, and that is what we need. Who's to do that? – We have already heard that Thomas Schmid’s discharge is about to come – the sooner, the better, I would mean, in the sense of these important change processes that are coming. [[Abg. Belakovich: The audience is interested!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Yes, in view of the great responsibility and the fullness of power, we wish ourselves a four-eye principle, a two-man board. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] I would like to say, in response to the well-known and from my personal point of view, really anti-female chat protocols: I also wish myself a woman at the top – a woman who controls.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e8656	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e8678	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! That's where I can join, because I wanted to start with a sense of respect today: Respect for Mrs. Federal Minister Schramböck. She had to read in this text that she was not trusted at all: For God's sake, the Schramböck – the citation –; and then there was such an emoji who somehow looked quite horrendous. Today she had sat here – in the meantime she had to go apparently. Respect that she's doing that, because when she talks about Mrs. Schramböck, it surprises me that she's still there at all. - That's point one. [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] Point two: Mr Federal Minister, I do something that has become old-fashioned, and I appeal to your conscience. I'm appealing to Your knowledge and conscience and your oaths. They have sworn to respect the laws of the Republic. But you did not respect the laws of the Republic, because the “SchmidAG” you built together with others, you have built against all the laws of the Republic. That's why I want you to scream – [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Melchior and Mr Zarits]] Don't be so excited! – Just ask, Minister of State: Sit at home, think about whether you can still fulfil the office, and also consider what you are doing! You're damaging the Republic, and that's bad for us! The cynicism you've worked with – we've seen – is bad. You're no longer a Minister of Finance, you're a Minister of Self Defense! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Melchior: Stay with the truth! This has been decided here in Parliament.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Sage Please don't! We're to blame! No, that's not the opposition, not the evil justice, no, that's you after all you've done, and after all you've written. I brought you a book, “Land of Thieves”. [[The speaker keeps this book up-to-date.]] Kurt Kuch, who lacks us so early, wrote “land of thieves ” ten years ago. You have not made a land of love out of it, you have made a land of Bussis out of it and a land of hoe against all people who want to work decently in this country! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Melchior and Mr Zarits.]] You know what? Here's the quote inside: “Where's the performance?” – How excited! [[New calls from MEPs Melchior and Zarits.]] Mr President, can you tell the gentlemen that they should be a little quiet? - Go, be quiet! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Neos as well as with representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Mr President, where is the bell? – This is the “land of thieves”. The quote I read here - - – Look at how he screams! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Melchior.]] Please count on my time! ‘Land of the Thieves’, here is the quote: “Where is my performance?” – Mr. Meischberger said that, and the new quote is, “get everything you want anyway.” – But you don’t even get the support of the Federal Chancellor. He even leaves you alone. [[Complementary with the Neos and with representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Now I want to say something essential: That's more than embarrassing. It's embarrassing, of course, but it's much more than embarrassing. That's the terrible system you've built. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Melchior and Mr Zarits.]] I'll tell you about the system in brief. The system in brief means: Lower the institutions. First institution, family: For me, family is responsible for the people I live with who I love. For you, family is to create dependencies to give to those who don't have anything to do with it. [[Complementary with the Neos and with representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] What you're doing is a system of fear. Mr. Schipka, the Secretary General of the Bishops' Conference, wanted to frighten you. He didn't get scared anyway. You want to scare everyone who disagrees with you. What's going on? - Now you're afraid of the next text. That's when you're scaring people. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The third is justice, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, you can read that in old books, terrible SPÖLER and ÖVPler have intervened in justice. But they wanted to destroy justice. You have edited the WKStA because you knew that it will investigate against you. They also want to destroy justice and in the end the media – anyway. You just look at the message control, it's got an absurdity. We read this especially in all foreign newspapers. The “FAZ, ” who wrote how great he is, writes: terrible, everything broken. – “Politico”, “South German” – you will no longer find a foreign newspaper that writes well for you. Mrs. Götze, yes, it's about the location, but in the German newspapers: You must have a Haberer here in Vienna, then you will! – This way, no good managers will apply. This is the next damage you've brought on our country. What has “time ” written today? – Mr. Schmid has good cards because he knows the secrets of the family. - That's your family! The secrets of the family, you build on them! [[Abg. Hanger: Stop setting up!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Melchior.]] In this sense, Mr President, I would like to ask once again for calls for regulations, because I have two more motions for resolutions to be tabled.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e8803	Please be quiet, you only have more than 13 seconds. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e8818	I now put forward two motions for resolutions. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[I would like to appeal to Mr Neos and Mr SPÖ, as well as to the members of the FPÖ.]] [[14:45]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e9022	Time's over, far beyond. [[Abg. Brandtätter continues to speak to the switched off microphone.]] I am sorry, Mr Brandstatter. You have exceeded the absolute time limit by more than 1 minute – only for clarification. The applications are properly submitted, sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. Member of Parliament has been reported to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e9057	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There is a question that concerns all of Austria. This question is: How did Mr. Schmid become the Board of the Öbag? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] Some of what Mr Blümel said is true. For example, it is absolutely legitimate that the government or ministers order supervisory councils. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger]] But this is not about the question of a Supervisory Board, but about the question of a Board of Directors, in which no staff of the Ministry is allowed to cooperate in any way. To this end, we have in the files the following: the draft notice for the Board of Directors. [[The speaker shows the enlarged picture of a printed text with handwritten notes.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] You can see handwritten notes here. These are the handwritten notes made by three people, namely Mr Schmid personally and by two of his closest employees. They have edited the tender text. They should never have done that. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] Do you know what happened in the end? [[The speaker shows the enlarged picture of a printed text with some yellow marked passages.]] All these things, marked yellow here, all proposals by Schmid and the two employees were implemented at the official invitation to tender. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger]] This tender was manipulated and attributed to a single candidate, namely by the candidate himself and by two of his closest employees. These are the evidence available to the investigative committee. This is the procedure we see here, and it is indisputable! [[Complaints with SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] Now the question is: What about the two employees or with one employee and one employee who helped? The first official act of Mr. Schmid was that he took both of them into Öbag's office and put them there in managing positions. [[Call the SPÖ:Wow!]] These three persons are the beneficiaries of this postponed tender. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] Now, under Minister Blümel, the ÖVP says: That's usual, that's transparent and that's international standard. – I say: That may be an ÖVP standard, that may be the family standard of the turquoise party, but I say it's pushed and corrupt what happened! [[It was in favour of SPÖ and NEOS, as well as members of the FPÖ.]] Since the Supervisory Board, although aware of all this, has not called into question what its obligation would be, there is only one who needs to do this, namely Minister Blümel. [[Abg. Belakovich: Must he...!]] He is able to get both the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board - Mr Schellhorn has made this clear. If the Supervisory Board is not part of the solution, it is part of the problem and belongs equally away. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Minister, act! [[Consistency with SPÖ and NEOS as well as with the Abg. Kaniak.]] [[14:50]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e9231	For the expression “this is [...] corrupt” I give you a call for order. [[Call the SPÖ: Why?]] [[Abg. Kickl: What would be the technical expression?]] The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Fürlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e9278	High Bureau! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a somewhat disturbing debate. It is therefore disturbing because we all know well the changing history of the Austrian statesmen and the state participations. We have had many different constructions, many of which were not suitable. [[Abg. Hauser: It's not about this!]] Mr Krainer, if you, who are of my generation, stand out here and have a state influence on national and state participations and also call them corrupt, I would like to say to you: I'm still a witness. I'm Linzer. I still remember what it was like, as a socialist Chancellor, a socialist central works councillor, Ruhaldinger, and a member of the Executive Board of the Voest under national chemistry Linz as a commander there – until when he had to step before his team and said: [[Call the SPÖ:... Schmid!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] We're pleading! I was close when tens of thousands – not hundreds, not thousands, but tens of thousands – went out into unemployment through the open gates. This is socialist participation in the national policy, which has cost us billions, in which we still pay today! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] We then, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time – and this is what I am monuing – together, all three big blocks inside here, passed a law with which we have made a proper participation company. [[Abg. Matznetter: Learn history!]] Everyone has found himself in it, the ÖVP, the Freedom Party and also the SPÖ, which has still promised us that their amendments have gone through. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Of course, they have also accommodated their personal wishes there and are now complaining that their own people in the Supervisory Board have ordered Mr. Schmid unanimously and have rightly expressed their confidence in him. This complaint, I think, is indeed impressive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you go out today and suddenly object to any logic of this joint project, I feel a little hybrid in my mind – I have to tell you that. At least I have tears in my eyes, only I don't know whether to cry or laugh about this argument. [[Call the SPÖ:Hahaha!]] I also oppose the redundancy of your requests against this Federal Minister. This Federal Finance Minister has been leading the finances of this state in one of the biggest crises we have ever had for over a year, so that people in that country do not starve and suffer from this crisis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] This is in social terms exactly the same as in enterprise promotions. You know that according to corrected statistics, even the International Monetary Fund has classified the work of the Minister of Finance in place 2. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Maurer and Mr Vogluer, for their support.]] I therefore believe that this copy-and-passe mistrust proposal, which, as always, is full of assumptions and criminalizations, as we are now used to in this House by individual promoters, is completely wrong. We must be happy and happy that people like Gernot Blümel are working for this country. He's by far one of the best finance ministers we've had for a long time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deimek and Scherak.]] Now I am closing my speech so that this debate also ends, because it would be important for the Minister of Finance to return to work and do something about the crisis in the country instead of having to deal with the debates in this House. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e9426	Mr Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e9448	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the bench! One can only hope that the Supervisory Boards will have a different lawyer than Mr. Mag. It's not that way, Mr. Mag. Fürlinger: The Supervisory Board should have acted very well in light of the fact that Mr. Schmid changed his call for tender himself. At the latest since today we all know: Mr Schmid has changed the invitation to tender by hand. This is the unique: In this case, it is not just a political occupation, it is about something quite different. It is about the fact that a Mr. Thomas Schmid, who belongs to the family, sits together with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic and with the Minister of Finance – that is such a triangular relationship, as Bussis flies back and forth – and that long before the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany was short Chancellor, long before Minister Blümel had a ministerial office at all, and they split up what they want. Mr. Schmid wants the Öbag. He's basking on the oebag. He writes himself the Öbag law, he has a call for tender pro forma, and this call is to make an agency for him. However, he writes the call for tender and then puts himself in the Supervisory Board the willing and steering persons, ladies and gentlemen. That's crazy about the story: the controllable supervisory councils! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these supervisory councils would now be very well advised to make Mr Schmid's appointment. I think that is necessary, for urgent reason! If you make yourself up and say everything went right, then I have to say, ladies and gentlemen: Nothing went right! This is corruption of the finest. That's what the courts will have to clarify. We have a political question to answer, and that is why this Minister of Finance has to resign! The chancellor should follow him right away, because he's part of this Triumvirate! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e9493	For the term “corruption” I give you a call for order. Mr Matznetter's next speech is a real correction, because the speaking time is over. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e9525	Mr President. Member of the Fürlinger has claimed that a Social Democratic Chancellor, in cooperation with the then Central Works Councillor Ruhaltinger, had indebted the steel crisis of the 1980s. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I'm actually correcting: It is an overestimation of the possibilities to count a global steel crisis with the greatest losses outside Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e9565	This was a political opinion and not an actual correction. Member of the Wöginger has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e9595	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter, this actual correction was a tragedy. Bawag, consumption, government pleite, billions put in the sand – that was a social democratic policy in this country for decades! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the posts, ladies and gentlemen: Mr. Kern started as a press speaker in the club. He is then Board of Directors – Board of Directors, not Supervisory Board! – became a joint subsidiary; then he was transferred to the ÖBB, and then he – Hautevolee – became Chancellor of the Republic of Austria. [[Abg. Kickl: Who was with you?]] For what purpose do you think the people in this Republic, ladies and gentlemen, about occupations?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It would also be interesting where Mr Drozda is now landing. He's a well-known cultural expert. Now he ends up on the board of the Arwag – residential expert. As Minister of Culture, one is responsible for the culture, tomorrow one is the best person in the housing sector. I wish him all the best, but you don't need to tell us anything about post positions! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Or colleague Ostermayer, Director General of Sozialbau AG: If you can believe the newspapers, he has just been responsible for 70 million euros, which have been placed in the sand on the Commercial Bank Mattersburg, which will also be discussed, ladies and gentlemen. The money is foot, it's gone, it's missing in social housing, ladies and gentlemen! This is the SPÖ's policy – and these are also the post positions that belong to it. So don't keep us up to the moral index finger here, but come in front of your own door! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To NEOS: It's been okay that the big donor Hazelsteiner could immediately be put into the ORF Foundation Council, right? We have heard nothing more about party politics and post-ordering, but it was the motto: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak]] The main thing is, one of us is inside, who gives us a lot of money, because then he should be able to decide there. – So stop with these morals, which you give for the best – they are missing in the place – and look at what it looks like to you, in your own area! [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Now to my favorite party, the Freedom Party: Mr President, in the last few days you have tried to move your team in the direction of compliance with the house rules. Unfortunately, it is not possible. It's dramatic, it's not the population to explain, it's actually inconceivable what's happening here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The little domestic rumpel in Austria called Herbert Kicklist on the road and surrounds his fire, but do you know how it went, Mr. Klubobmann? – At the end, when the Queen said that he was called Rumpel Stilzchen, it said: “That’s what the devil told you, that’s what the devil told you,” – the former chief of cabinets will not have been – “screamed the male and pushed into the earth with his right foot in front of anger so deep that it entered the body, then in his anger it grabbed the left foot with both hands and pulled itself in the middle.” That, I predict, could happen to the FPÖ: that it will be disintegrated in the middle. [[Cheerfulness of Deimek and Kickl.]] If you look at developments in the last few days, you can see that there is not much left to do with this. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] But it is really very sad, ladies and gentlemen, that you refuse the mask here, although it goes in Salzburg, in Upper Austria, although it goes in Vorarlberg – in Carinthia you even need a negative PCR test to get into the country house! –; but no, there is Kickl, Hofer unfortunately has nothing to say, and therefore it is done so. You know what's far more important? – That we take care of the pandemic and the economic crisis fight! That would be what people would expect of us! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] We are lying there, thank God, with this Minister of Finance. We are the second in the expenditure on corona crisis management. We do everything we can to ensure that we are vaccinated by July, because only in this way will we get our summer back, which we all wish for. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore: Stop here with these allegations, with these allegations, with these evasions which you can't prove in any way, but we'll help to deal with this crisis together! [[Further calls to the FPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e9729	Mrs Dagmar Belakovich. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e9753	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Wöginger, I have to speak again now, because the coronary corrosion of the ÖVP is immediately coming into my mind in the case of the masks. [[Abg. Hanger: (feeling hands together) Please go!]] I think of the hygiene of Austria, with regard to which the ÖVP refuses to disclose the communication between the Ministry of Labour, the General Secretariat of the Ministry of Labour, the Labour Inspectorate and the Federal Chancellery. You have covered everything there, and there is, of course, the suspicion that Austria's hygiene has had its hands in the game again, and this is not quite clean, because otherwise you could reveal it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Where in Europe is there an FFP2 mask? – These are two states: Austria and Germany, and in both countries there is corruption around the procurement of these FFP2 masks. The difference is just: In Germany, the blacks who are in there have resigned, there have been withdrawals, but in us the rulers sit on the government bank. That's crazy! [[In the case of the FPÖ, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Loacker.]] There is no leaving morale in this party, and this fits exactly with the order process that is here today and was the subject that has been silenced by the Greens and has been presented by you as normality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Straster.]] It is not normal for a person to judge everything himself, but that means corruption; this corruption has a name, and it is ÖVP! [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the FPÖ.]] You can only be glad that you're hiding under your masks, because many who sit further behind, the real blacks, it drives the shame red into the face when they read what's going on in all these text chats – and I'm not talking about the bussi, bussi, which are probably far more than when my ten-year-old daughter and her girlfriends write to each other. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince]] This is puberty behavior. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Hanger.]] Her former supervisor, Mr. Busek, said: These are “Trottel. ” [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, yes, you're not right now, but it's your former supervisor. [[Congratulations with members of the FPÖ]] Busek has said that these are “trottels” – and, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to be ruled by fools! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At a time when the economy is on the ground in Austria, it needs the best minds, because it doesn't need any trouble, ladies and gentlemen. You of the People's Party would be well advised to finally make order in your barn, ladies and gentlemen! It's not about, let's look at what's happened in the Ministry of Finance in the last 20 years: First, there was a Mr. Grasser, who has already been sentenced – he would have even become almost your party observer. [[Mr Hanger and Mr Zarits interlocutors.]] After that, Minister Molterer came, who was involved in a Novomatic donation affair. Then came Pröll, currently accused in the Causa gambling game. After Pröll had been Maria Fekter for a short time, but that was then put away by Mr Spindelegger – and that is exactly the Lord under whom the strange awards of gambling licenses have been made. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] This is the inventor of this boy group, which is now on my left, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e9884	Finally, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e9899	It will be time, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, for you to withdraw from the Federal Government so that Austria can finally get clean again!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e9936	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I'm asking the clubs if a break is desirable. – That is obviously not the case. We shall proceed to the vote. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution – please calm down! – Deputies Mag. [[Unrest in the hall]] Jörg Leichtfried, Christian Hafenecker, Karin Doppelbauer, colleagues and colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister of Finance in accordance with Art. 74 para. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Wöger.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Christian Hafenecker, ladies and gentlemen, on the "So-called appointment of the Board of Directors of the ÖBAG MMag. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr Christoph Matznetter, colleagues, on the 'basic renewal of the ÖBAG'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Selma Yildirim, colleagues on ‘the rejection of the new § 112a StPO proposed by the Ministry of the Interior and the call for an anti-corruption package’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Karin Doppelbauer, colleagues on the ÖBAG Constitutional Change. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, are a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Schellhorn, ladies and gentlemen, on 'SuddenSchmid'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This request is also rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kai Jan Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, on the appointment of the ÖBAG institutions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. This request is also rejected. [[15:09:35]] Applications pursuant to § 69 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00095_d8e10104	We now come to three requests for the implementation of first readings. I have a request in accordance with § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to take at first reading the popular desire for ‘TIRE PROTECTION’, 771 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Furthermore, I have a request in accordance with § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to take at first reading the popular desire for ‘Ethics for ALL’, 772 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This too is unanimously adopted. Finally, I have a request in accordance with § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to take the popular desire ‘FOR IMPF-FREITIT’, 773 of the supplements, at first reading. I would also ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a corresponding sign. – This too is unanimously adopted. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 15.10 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
