ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e958	I'll open the 130. Meeting of the National Council. Deputies Kira Grünberg, Dipl.-Ing. Georg Strasser, Elisabeth Feichtinger, BEd BEd, Dr. Christoph Matznetter, Rudolf Silvan, Herbert Kickl, Walter Rauch, Ing. May. Volker Reiferberger, Wolfgang Zanger, Michel Reimon, MBAund Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e1020	As regards the negotiated items and the allocations, I refer in accordance with § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e1572	I would also like to give the Committee on Culture 2060/A(E). Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e1597	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. The total speaking time for each club is 15 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, 8 minutes each, and their speaking time shall be limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who agree to this in order to give a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Let's go into the agenda. [[17:34:10]] 1. Point Report by the Immunities Committee on the request of the Central Public Prosecutor for the prosecution of economic crimes and corruption (Cc. 17 St 5/19d) for approval of the official persecution of the Member of the National Council Sebastian Kurz(1159 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e1648	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Klaus Fürlinger was the first speaker to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e1675	High Bureau! Ladies and gentlemen! On 16.11. the Immunities Committee, at the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office, suspended the immunity of the Klubobmann Member Sebastian Kurz – a normal procedure, which is in time for a Member who was praised just before that on the 14th of the year. Why do we have to debate this today? Why do I have to say it? – Because in the last few days and weeks a kind of disinformation has been operated by certain political sides, talk has been made of tricks and delays that do not withstand this fact check. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the one hand, ladies and gentlemen, at the start of his mandate, Sebastian Kurzlbst has said clearly that he will, of course, refrain from immunity in order to clarify allegations. On the other hand, there was an ordinary term run, and the manipulation that has been claimed here by some who have spoken of delays – it would have been technically impossible at all – is to be referred to the realm of party political legend. Sebastian Kurzhat is right when he says he wants to come immediately to clarify these accusations. Why? – Because we – and I am telling you here as a lawyer – are concerned that it is enough today to happen in electronic messages from people who may agree to a crime to enter the suspicion situation themselves. I can tell you, with some concern, that we see this with concern from the colleagues of the stand of lawyers in this country. We see with concern the speed at which a suspect status is constructed today, and I see it – and here we should all take a look at it together in politics – with concern about how fast it is in politics that you become more suspicious. I would therefore like to tell you this because we must not be surprised, if those who can count one and one together will make a big deal about politics in the future, because when they enter the stage, they may already be in a state of suspicion, because they have had some contact with anyone who may have committed a crime. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a point on which we have to think, because we are all going to suffer as a policy, no matter what direction of belief, if we no longer find mayors, because one as mayors already has to do with criminal law. Contact comes if he does not prescribe a channel fee in time or if otherwise he does not do something at the right speed. This is also true at this level up here, where we come in suspicions, which I would like to say quite clearly, and I am not alone in this judgment, as I have read in the last few days, when we look at what has happened and what is happening now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is as it should be. The prosecutors are on the train and they're talking. The lawyers of the state, i.e. those who are to represent and monitor our monopoly of criminal law, which we decide to enter into here, are now on the train. They owe us a quick and clean investigation and they owe the Austrians an answer to the question of whether politicians have committed a crime or not. If – I also want to say that – no more than what we have read about the matter, they also owe us relatively quickly a sluggish answer. That's what they have to do. They are responsible for this, also here in politics, and the Austrians have a right to a rapid response, which we will also call for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e1745	Mrs Selma Yildirim is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e1766	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fürlinger, I am really upset now. Now you've really upset me! [[Abg. Fürlinger: I wanted to avoid that!]] You stand here, create alternative facts here! You know what that was? The immunity committee, Mr Fürlinger, is the committee with the most routine, uncomplicated meetings I have known in the four years since I was in the National Council. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What happened when the economic and corruption prosecutor's office asked for approval of Mr Sebastian Kurzan's official persecution of the National Council? – Mr Fürlinger, you are a lawyer and an MP, please listen now, don't get out of the hall! [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Since the EIA wanted a quick education, because you are all rightly and hopefully sincerely interested in a reconnaissance, in my responsibility as chairman of this immunity committee, I have the first date, namely the 16th. November, 8 p.m., proposed, one hour before the beginning of the plenary session. That would be a full hour for a session that is basically – and that is not what the spectators know – a formality, because everything is being discussed in advance, and it is a vote that usually takes 10 to 15 minutes. I agree, however, that the public interest in you, Mr Kurz, is very great, that is why I granted an hour. Medial was the first reaction of the ÖVP: Of course, the 16th of November, that is what we actually know, we agree with it. Behind the scenes, dear Ladies and gentlemen, there has been such a doubling that I thought: Where am I?For two weeks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] . You are asking what do you want to do, Mr Wöginger? [[Abg. Wöger:..., what?]] Read You don't have the correspondence? Aren't you talking to your employees? The first one was: No, we want to do this on the 16th after the meeting. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] – Please, after 16 hours we should have debated this Causa on Tuesday at 23 o’clock, because you said the time from 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. is too short for you, the hour is too short. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I have it in writing, you will be happy to receive it in writing. - That's it. The second is – because you have annoyed me, there is the problem, Mr Wöginger, and that is what I am telling you now, and now you are listening to me; [[Abg. Wöginger: Exactly,...!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] You can then sign up for a word, stop the calls! – the second date would be on the 17th. November after the end of the meeting. The third date proposed by the EIA would be today, just now you wanted to talk about it. Well, when was it clear that the reserve day will be used tomorrow, Mr. Wöginger? [[Abg. Wöginger:...last President!]] When did that come to mind? – Not until the 11th, in the last presidential. So, and now I'm supposed to be the president, I wouldn't give you enough time?- Oh, my God! You had the opportunity to have so much time, you had the opportunity to choose a desired date, but you did not. I would like to express my appreciation of the content. Finally, we had this meeting yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, and it is unanimous, yes, but for that it has needed this circus! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] There are serious accusations against Mr Sebastian Kurz and his environment in the ÖVP avenues. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl.]] There are really serious accusations. It's no less than the suspicion of bribery, suspicion of bribery, suspicion of infidelity, and it's supposed to have been bought beautiful opinion polls and related reporting in Boulevard media – all of this from our all tax money. That's to clarify, that needs to be clarified! We need to be as quick as possible to inform, but that is what justice is responsible for, and at the parliamentary level of the committee of inquiry, which you hope will not continue to delay, but will force it with. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Haubner and Mr Gerstl]] As you all know, the economic and corruption prosecutorship has been allowed since the 14th century. It is not because you, Mr Kurz, have been praised and have parliamentary immunity. That is also important, it has its meaning and purpose that there is this immunity. However, valuable time has now passed. It was not allowed to be determined against you or against all the others who were led in this complex – was not allowed to do so. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] If unanimity continues to exist today, it will be so because we do not see a link between your work as a Member of Parliament and these accusations of corruption, what is being accused of by the economic and corruption prosecutorship. No one, ladies and gentlemen, can hide behind parliamentary immunity in this Parliament, on which we all agree. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is not part of the political work of crossing borders. Again: It is intended to examine justice and to discuss political history with Parliament's investigative committee. [[Call the ÖVP:Muss!]] I just want to tell you one thing: Apart from the criminal dimension with which justice has to deal, and which, hopefully, is undisturbed – the legal accusations concern the criminal justice – one thing has shaken me over the whole incident: What has come to the public through the chats, this inner attitude to other people, this incredible greed for power and the means used for doing so, what has come to the public is really embarrassing, and this is damaging to all of us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Others have already taken responsibility for this. Mr. Kurz, I would like to remind you of what you said after the Ibiza video affair on H.-C. I told you straight away. You said it, and among other things is H.-C. I even believe that the political functions of this Parliament must be respected immediately. It is this political dimension that interests me or us here. The fact that you are building up a self-defense, Mr Kurz, is also yours. However, I find that you are creating a private report, in which a university logo is misused and from which the University of Vienna is dissociating, strange. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Apart from the fact that so many lawyers can't get anything on the content of the statements there: If one still knows in what environment the author of the opinion is acting as a lawyer, legitimate doubts about objectivity could arise. It is strange, however, that, for me, I really do not know how many times the ÖVP has taken to justice and the appearance should be aroused that the WKStA is politically motivated and over-acting. Mr Kurz, you are blaming the judiciary, attacking them and harming our rule of law. Every defence strategy is legitimate, but do not attack the rule of law! Grabs It is not the institutions of democracy! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl.]] In fact, they put the Enlightenment in the way of stones, you are insecure, the people feel intimidated. These are law-enforced prosecutors! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Finally, get out of this sacrificial role! They are not victims of a political campaign by the judiciary, rather it is reversed. So leave justice at last to work without any political appeals! This is already very difficult in view of the scarce resources. Austria, ladies and gentlemen, and with this I will close my speech, obviously has a problem with corruption, and this has increased in recent years. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Madam President, the time has already come!]] The EIA has repeatedly launched measures to improve the fight against corruption. However, we must set up measures against corruption, which has once again made all these incidents very clear. I should like to remind you of the anti-corruption people's desire, and invite everyone to sign it, if you have not done so. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Madam President, how long...?]] We can fight corruption, ladies and gentlemen! Please believe that we can and support them You want this people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e1997	Next speaker: Mr Christian Hafenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2024	Madam President. High house! I am very grateful to Mr Yildirim for just telling her how this committee appointment came about and how the deadlines have been worked again: that the ÖVP says on the one hand that she is interested in the fact that this can be resolved as quickly as possible, and then that there is the time-limit again. We have always seen this in the Committee of the Rules of Procedure in connection with the Committee of Inquiry. [[Call the ÖVP: That's not true!]] That's what makes you very aware. They are constantly tossing dates and ringing around every day in time you can get. I believe that we should talk about this: whether the customs and customs that have been common in the house so far are simply taken away from the ÖVP. One point, however, which I believe is the debate today, is why it is absolutely necessary that the immunity of Old German chancellors be removed briefly. Why do you even have to deal with the High House? Why did Mr Altbundeskanzler even return to the High House, why did he go into an immunity to have her taken up again? So I think that if you had had the moral slat that you, Mr Altbundeskanzler Kurz, had laid down with you, you should have resigned, but in the second. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to remind you of a statement made by you yourself, Mr Altbundeskanzler Kurz: “Enough is enough”! – Skill You remember? You have made this statement in full knowledge of what you have done with surveys, in full knowledge that you have turned off taxpayers with your project Ballhausplatz. You knew all that, and yet you said: ‘Genuine is enough’. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – I am already asking myself the question, Mrs Steinacker – – – So I do not know what the ÖVP now has, I do not understand from here, Madam President. [[Enduring calls at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haubner: We don't understand you at all!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] To remember: “Genug is enough”, that was the latte that Mr. Altbundeskanzler Kurz laid himself. I think you have to put this latte on yourself, too. Mr. Altbundeskanzler Kurz, can you remember why Herbert Kicklaus had to withdraw your view? – Because They have said that no former Secretary-General of a government party may determine against party members. [[Abg. Hörl: That was... Interior Minister of All Times!]] – Where is the latte you have laid yourself, where is Mr Nehammer? - He's still in office. If you'd have to put on the latte you've laid yourself, so you'd have to put on yourself. They all have resigned for a long time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why I also wonder how long this ÖVP-Latten-Limbo-Dance goes on. How deep can you go down? How often do you need to correct your own latte, how often do you have to overtake your own standard? I am sorry for the head of your Ethics Commission, because, I think, she cannot take up her work at all because she does not know what the moral standard within the EDP is at present. That's why soon: Mr Altbundeskanzler Kurz, please spare us this theatre in Parliament! You don't need to be delivered, you can just go and step back, and the case is done. Then you do not need to take us hostagely, then we do not need to hold this debate and the case is over. Again: Put the standards that you have set yourself on yourself! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to go into the debate unnecessarily now. I still notice one thing. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – Well, if the ÖVP calls in, I’d like to stay here at the speaker’s desk, so that’s not the way it is. [[Abg. Haubner: It won't be better!]] In principle, it's also fun to look into your desperate faces once, if you don't know how to argue what you want to argue about. However, I still lack a voice because it is about morality and it is about ethics in this country. I am still missing one, namely the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, whom you want to support in the next election. He hasn't said anything to all of this to this day. I think that's interesting, because the President of the Federal Republic was the one who said: “This is not how we are.” Now we are somehow the same, as always, but also the President of the Federal Republic of Germany would not be released from this responsibility. Mr Altbundeskanzler Kurz, if you would like to know why this extradition has come or why this extradition will take place today: I did a little work for you over the summer. I wrote a book, which means: “This is how we are.” You can check why you are finally delivered.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2154	Next speaker: Mr Georg Bürstmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2175	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! Since at the beginning of this short debate there was an argument as to whether and who would have delayed something, I would like to make an advertisement for an Austrian weekly magazine, namely the “profile” against my other uses. “Profile” under the title of fictitiously performs a fact-finding check, and with today’s date, this fact check comes to the question “Has the ÖVP delayed the delivery of short?” to a rather exciting, very detailed, yet well-intelligible, presentation of the process, of the parliamentary procedure, as it comes to a so-called extradition first in the relevant committee and then in plenary. The fact is that the accusation that the ÖVP would have delayed this would have been false. The conclusion is not so important at all, but I recommend the reading of this article, because the procedures are quite exciting and well-intelligible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf]] What you might need to say is that the word extradition has a bit of a funny side-effect. It always sounds as if a parliament would decide that one of its Members would now be delivered directly to the hands of a dungeon master or that a parliament would decide that a prosecution would have to take place. Nothing like that is the case. This House does not decide on guilt and innocence, nor does it decide whether a person is being prosecuted, accused or not. The only decision we have to make here is when any criminal proceedings are to be brought: while one of us is a Member of Parliament or a Member of Parliament, or after the end of this Members' property. If the offence in question is connected with political activity, with the activities of representatives of one of us stands, then this one or this one of us is usually not delivered. In the case of my colleague, Mr Schnedlitz, the Immunities Committee has denied this context and thus has enabled the independent judicial system to proceed quickly with both criminal proceedings already started. I assume that, in the end, both colleagues are in a position to clarify the allegations raised against them as soon as possible. I wish you every success, just as I wish that justice in this and all other criminal proceedings can work and clarify independently without outside appeals and as far as possible. - Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2230	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I shall refer the vote to the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the immunity committee. [[17:58:06]] 2. Point Report of the Committee on Immunities on the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna (Zl. 501 St 85/21f) for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Michael Schnedlitz(1160 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2266	We'll get to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. As First of all, Mr Philipp Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2293	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen in the house and at home in front of the televisions! At the beginning of my speech, I think I have to deal with a few prejudices that have always been heard in the media and, unfortunately, from parliamentarians. First of all: Immunity protects the honourable Member. – No, ladies and gentlemen, immunity does not protect the Members, it does not mean parliamentary immunity, it is called parliamentary immunity and it therefore protects this House as a legislative body. That means that it will be the whole house, not the house, but it will protect the national councils – listen, then you may be able to apply it better next time! – so that we can comply with our legal mandate. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Secondly, The criminal prosecution of the Deputies will only be inhibited. That means: Scheidet of the honourable Member from this House, the prosecution will immediately resume the persecution. If a Member has actually done a criminal action, he will be held accountable sooner or later. The former Member of Parliament, Peter Pilz, has often tried to prevent this – he has not succeeded either. Ladies and gentlemen, I have read in the newspaper: Sebastian Kurz says he's for his extradition. – Yes, that may be nice, but a Member cannot decide. It is this plenary session of the National Council that decides whether we are handing over to the MP, not to the dungeon master, but to the prosecutor's office. And: This sharp instrument of immunity must not be misused as a political instrument of power. However, as the next case shows, this has unfortunately not arrived in all the minds of the Members. Under the impression of the terrible murder of 13-year-old Leonie, MP Schnedlitz, the Secretary General of the Freedom Party, found in a Facebook posting that kills immigration. I would like to highlight a bit of how other parties have responded to this terrible murder: the Greens are unfortunately not at all; But thank God they have already responded before after an Austrian murdered an Austrian – at least something. ==References== They held a press conference in May, where they announced that on May 2, 2021, they had been given the title of a press conference. In May, nine women were already victims of a man. Mückstein, then Minister of Health, is on record: We have to fight men's violence. The Green Club gives the following protocol: “We have to start with the men who become potential perpetrators”. So let Member Schnedlitz write instead: We must start with the immigrants who are becoming potential perpetrators? Little later and under the impression of the murder Sebastian Kurz writes on his Twitter page: “The cruel act committed in Vienna makes me deeply affected & angry. It is unbearable that people come to our country, indicate that they seek protection and then commit cruel crimes. My deep compassion applies to the girl’s family!” – Was Michael Schnedlitz supposed to write that? – No, Michael Schnedlitz has brought it to the fore – freely after an Austrian daily newspaper. He put it to the point and wrote: “Kill immigration. ” Ladies and gentlemen, decide for yourself whether, as my following speakers will say here at the speaker's desk, this is an incitement and whether that should include political immunity, parliamentary immunity, or - - thank you, I thank the Greens, for you have shown me something: [[Abg. Stögmüller: It's hate!]] This immunity committee is not in place to give a pre-condemnification. Whether someone is heating, does not judge Parliament, but a court. [[Intervocations with ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] What you're doing is political pre-condemnification. It is a political instrument of power as you use it. Ladies and gentlemen at home: Next time, decide for yourself whether you still want to! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2355	Next speaker: Mr Friedrich Ofenauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2376	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My much-honored spectators! The Immunity Committee, whose report we are dealing with now, took place last Tuesday, 16th. November, at 8 o'clock in the morning. Today, Thursday evening, at the meeting after the budget meeting, the decision-making of the National Council on this report of the Immunities Committee is taking place. This is a process that perfectly corresponds to the uses and habits of the House. The already mentioned online “profile” also explains in detail in today’s report how the committees are termed how these decisions are made. That was perfectly in order and in accordance with the habits. But it shows one, colleague Yildirim, just like the SPÖ makes stories out of nowhere, out of nowhere. The fact is that this meeting and today's decision-making are entirely the same as it is with each immunity committee. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to refer to the comments made by Mr Schrangl, who says that this is not a pre-conception, but that it is an assessment of the content. I would like to go back a little bit to the principles. What about the immunity committee and immunity? – Yes, Mr Yildirim, I am right to say that the Immunities Committee is generally a very objective committee, in which it is also tried to bring as much unanimity as possible, but the views and perspectives differ naturally, and so there can be different assessments and assessments as we have in the current session. But – and I'm right with colleagues Schrangl –: Yes, immunity is a right of the representative body and protects the ability of this Parliament to act. One divides this immunity into the professional – that one cannot be interested in what one says here at the speaker's desk, what one writes. We can only be held responsible by the National Council for this, and that is good and that is important, because emotional and passionate speeches are to be given here. In here! On the street, however, this should not affect. But there is also extra-professional immunity, for all that is made by Members in their capacity as Members. There's the distinction: When are you private and when are you professional? – I believe that there can be no difference between private and non-private activities of a Member of Parliament, because even if I speak in the private circle of friends, I speak as a Member. So where's the border? Where's the separation? I want to say that the distinction, the differentiation in the individual case is often very difficult and not easy. It is also not a legal decision, because we do not make a decision on the substance of the matter, but rather, under quotations, determine whether there is a link to the political activity of the honourable Member. We of the EIA already believe that there are limits for a Member's political activity and that statements such as "immigration kill" are allowed to cross this border and not to be protected by Members' immunity. As a Member of Parliament, you must always be aware of what you say, where you say it and how you say it and, above all, how such statements can affect you. [[Abg. Lausch: That's what we're talking about now!]] There is a corresponding responsibility for each of us, including you, Mr Lausch, and, above all, Mr Schnedlitz, Mr Hafenecker and all of them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On Tuesday, Mr Hafenecker said in the debate that the parliamentary discourse was no longer enough to call for demonstrations. [[Abg. Listen: You judge it as you need it!]] I do not support anyone's right to demonstrate, on the contrary, but rather call and try to mobilize the road to cover minorities in Parliament by majority on the streets, ladies and gentlemen, that is not the right way! [[Abg. Lausch: This is undemocratic, Mr. Ofenauer!]] I think that Mr Schnedlitz's statement has exceeded the limits of political activity, and that cannot be protected by immunity.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2454	Next speaker: Mr Martin Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2475	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have been observing the work of the Immunities Committee for many years, in concrete terms since 1994, and I have also had to experience several times how speech practices in the Immunities Committee have been changed in the last three decades. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Once again, I do not want to hide myself without taking a party, but what we have finally done in the High House from the immunity committee and its saying practice, I think is simply a farce; and we continue it every day. I recall that by about 2006, 2007, a political relationship was established in doubt and then one did not have the confidence to deliver, despite the determination of a political context, which is in principle possible – that would only be a question of the practice of pronouncing. Instead, we are trying to bring about legal arguments as to whether something is a political link or not. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, everything that is done here in the House, whether by a Member of Parliament or by a member of the government, who then becomes a Member of Parliament, is politics! We're not a non-political space, we're making politics here. The real mistake that arose because the child was once again poured out with the bath is that the Immunities Committee unfortunately does not offer any control that one can develop a legal claim from it, a legal claim that arises by itself. No, a politically-occupied body decides on party colors, which have already beaten incredible caprioles in the past, which is why one tries to try around and make it different. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is the dealing with parliamentarianism and with ourselves as members that we are actually making here a farce, because in reality no one in the population understands why we find here that what Mr. Kurz or anyone else has done in the past has no political connection! Well, of course this has a political connection! But one wants to deliver it, or he himself wants it – he can't do that, that was determined anyway. One wants to deliver it, one follows the zeitgeist, the boulevard and much more and pours out the child with the bath. As long as there is no legal claim for extradition, one will always find a saying practice that serves the powerful. And the one who serves the powerful is in this case, for more than 30 years, the ÖVP, who has developed this proverbial practice and now finds himself as a prisoner of this proverbial practice. At the end of the day, it is such a capriole that, if we find that there is no political connection, Mr Kurz, the costs of legal proceedings which he imposes in order to defend himself before the public prosecutor's office cannot even be deducted from the tax, because there is no political link to his income and he cannot even claim it as special expenditure. This is the saying practice because, by means of the assistance, the financial aid can be obtained by means of the protocol. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] If no political context has been established, the cost of defence, which goes to hundreds of thousands and endangers the economic existence of Members, cannot be deducted from the tax – even if one has overcome it and one generally stays on it. Ladies and gentlemen, we have brought it that far! I urge the Immunities Committee to meet once – not at 8 o'clock in the morning for a quarter hour and similar more or at midnight after a meeting, as Mrs Colleague said, this is all routine and that goes on in 2, 3 minutes – to sit down and think in principle about how we want to keep it with parliamentary immunity in the future Just as it is currently being lived, one can get rid of immunity on the pile of history. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Yildirim.]] Then, in reality, we do not need them in the form of what is actually a pity, because it is ultimately also intended to protect freedom of expression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2538	Next speaker: Mr Georg Bürstmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2560	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Graf, I am in favour of trying to make an actual correction here shortly before, so clearly what you have said here differs from the relevant legal situation. The question of parliamentary immunity is not whether a political link can be established to a particular statement, to a certain accused act, but whether there is a possible link with the political activity as a Member of this House. That's a huge difference, Mr. Graf! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] It is now true that in the case of my colleague, Mr Kurz, the immunity committee has looked at incriminated acts, as we say in the German legal system, i.e. the actions that have been taken by Members in brief, and the periods in which they should have been set. [[Call at the FPÖ: Is wurst anyway!]] Whether they have been set up, the judicial system must assess whether this is punishable, but the conclusion to which we have come is: At that time, he was certainly not a Member, so there can be no link to political activity as a Member. In any case, this was the main reason in the Immunities Committee, and that is why we have reached this conclusion. In the case of my colleague Schnedlitz, this was a little different. Mr Schnedlitz has many functions. He is the FPÖ Secretary General, he is the mayor, the Town Council and the Club of the FPÖ Group in Wiener Neustadt; and then he is a member of the National Council. [[Abg. Deimek: And if you only have Members...!]] So he spends very, very much time for political activity in various functions and as such – and we have that – let me talk out, let me speak out! [[Call the FPÖ: You don't have to judge that!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Martin Graf: This is not your competence to test that!]] Mr. Col., please! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] You know, immunity debates are legal or strongly legal debates, and you as full court should be used to listening to the arguments of the opposite side first. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Political decisions are these!]] [[Abg. Kassinger: As a full judge, you should deal with the issue of the protection purpose of the standard before you operate hair clefts!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] We have therefore looked at the Facebook appearance of Mr Schnedlitz in question and there are many different postings in which he can be seen, for example, with a FPÖ logo, on which he describes for example his office work in the town hall or his political activity in Vienna Neustadt. [[Keeping prints in height with the appropriate illustrations]] [[Abg. Brückl: It's not about this, Oida!]] [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] It is quite clear that all these posts, which are in no way incriminated in any way, are in a context of the political activity of Mr Schnedlitz, but not of the work as a Member. [[Abg. Deimek: So, Madam President...!]] [[Intervening calls and cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] There are other posts from which it becomes quite clear that the honourable Member is speaking Schnedlitz, and then there is the question of posting - – – children, please let me talk out! [[Call the FPÖ:So you will never get the curve, Mr. Colleague!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Obviously, it's unpleasant for you to know what I'm saying. [[Call the FPÖ:Faule excuses!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] So the number of calls from the FPÖ Group shows quite clearly at an advanced hour that what I am saying here must be unpleasant. [[Abg. Listen: No, wrong!]] I'll conclude. [[Abg. Listen: Don't be unpleasant, wrong!]] The incriminated posting has no reference whatsoever to any connection with any of the many functions listed by me, and therefore the Immunities Committee has concluded that there is no link with political activity as a Member. [[Call the FPÖ: There you have to laugh yourself!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is what lawyers call a question of consideration, and I say to it – and this is also what lawyers know: There are always valid, i.e. valid counter-arguments for consideration issues, only these counter-arguments do not consist in trying to overtone a speaker through intermediate calls. [[Abg. Deimek: Now at least a failure comes...!]] - Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2811	Mr Christian Ragger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2832	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As a general rule, I do not interfere in an immunity debate, but if one proceeds in such an overrun, really political, judicial decision like Mr. Cot, I have to say something: This is the justice of the Greens! This is not happening for the first time now, but it is now happening after Kickl as an occasion for the second time, and contaminants are exclusively you as greens! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No one else in this House is questioning what is called immunity. And if you like. 57 para. 3 B-VG would read correctly, you knew: We have only to assess in this House whether this is politically related or not. Where do you want to go from Mr Schnedlitz in this case? He is a blood politician, he is 100 percent active in this House, and that is why there is a political connection. And you are now handing over this gentleman by means of a political justice. That's not compatible! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2870	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. I ask the rapporteur whether he would like a final word? - That's not the case. [[18:21:35]] Vote on agenda items 1 to 2
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2895	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposals of the Committee on Immunities. I ask the political groups whether we can proceed immediately. – I see approval everywhere and will therefore act in this way. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Request of the Immunity Committee in 1159 of the Supplements to decide on the following: “In consideration of the request of the Central Procuratorate for the prosecution of economic crimes and corruption, GZ. 17 St 5/19d, for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Sebastian Kurzwerd within the meaning of Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG notes that there is no link between the incriminated action and the political activity of the MP to the National Council Sebastian.’ I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda item 2: Request of the Immunity Committee in 1160 of the Supplements to decide on the following: “In consideration of the request of the Public Prosecutor’s Office in Vienna, GZ. 501 St 85/21f, for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Michael Schnedlitz will be in accordance with Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG found that there is no link between the incriminated action and the political activity of the MP to the National Council of Michael Schnedlitz.” I am looking for a sign for those who agree. – This is accepted by the majority. [[Abg. Deimek: Unmistakable!]] [[Further call at the FPÖ: A shame for Parliament!]] The agenda is exhausted. [[18:23:37]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2960	I have a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda item 1 so that this part of the Official Protocol is deemed approved at the end of the meeting. I read: ‘TO point 1: In consideration of the request by the Central Public Prosecutor for the prosecution of economic crimes and corruption, for approval of the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council Sebastian Kurzwerd in accordance with the Committee's request in 1159 of the Supplements within the meaning of Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG notes that there is no link between the incriminated action and the political activity of the MP to the National Council Sebastian.’ Are there any objections to the version or content of this read part of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. This part of the Official Protocol is therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00130_d7e3010	I announce that, at today's meeting, self-employed applications have been submitted by 2061/A to 2074/A. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for tomorrow, Friday, 9 a.m. The agenda was done in writing. I wish you a nice evening. This meeting is closed.
