ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e7067	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I can give you a very warm welcome to 111. Parliament called on the Council to adopt a common position on the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the The meeting was opened. My greeting, of course, also applies to journalists. Today, for the first time, a part of the visitor gallery is open again. At the same time, I welcome the ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens. The unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of 109. Meeting and the Official Protocol of the 110. Meeting of 26. May 2021 are present in the Parliamentary Directorate and have not been challenged. The Members of this House are reported as prevented today. Dr. Agnes Totter, Bed, MMag. DDr. Hubert Fuchs, Alois Kainz, Mag. Philipp Schrangl, Mag. Georg Bürstmayr, Barbara Neßlerand Josef Schellhorn. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e7119	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: On the other hand, Federal Minister for Women, Family, Youth and Integration will MMag. Dr Susanne Raab by Federal Minister for the EU and Constitution Mag. Karoline Edtstadler. I also announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: Vice chancellor Mag. Werner Kogler will be the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Art, Culture, Public Service and Sport Mag. Andrea Mayer. Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Mag. Alexander Schallenberg, LL.M. will be the Federal Minister for State Defense Mag. Klaudia Tanner and Federal Minister of Interiors Karl Nehammer, MScwird represented by Federal Minister of Education, Science and Research Dr. Heinz Fassmann. I may announce that this meeting will be transferred from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. to ORF III as usual, then until 7.15 p.m. and will be transmitted in the TV library. For the purposes of § 50 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Leichtfried raised written objections to the agenda of today's sitting. The objections concern the presentation of Agenda item 2 as Agenda item 1. In addition, within the meaning of § 50 of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Belakovich raised written objections to the agenda for today's sitting. The objections also concern the presentation of Agenda item 2 as Agenda item 1. I am not in favour of these objections, which is why the National Council has to decide. In the joint debate held pursuant to § 50 of the Rules of Procedure, I limit the speaking time to 5 minutes and the number of speakers per club to three. The debate will take place after the current hour of Europe. [[09:08:49]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e7226	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Safer hospitality: Comeback of Austrian tourism’ I would like to congratulate Mrs Köstinger on this. First of all, it is a Member of the Upper Noster. The word stands with him. – You know, honourable Member, 10 minutes of speaking time; everyone else will follow with 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e7257	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV screens! “Safer hospitality: Comeback of Austrian tourism is today the theme of the current hour. Last night an online press conference of the IMF took place. You know what was said there? This is especially important for the opposition parties: The Austrian corona aid is exemplary, and as the Austrian financial budget is drawn up, no savings package will be considered necessary in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Waller.]] We are now – hopefully, I say – at the end of this corona crisis. We know the economy has sprang up again, we know that tourism has been locked up again. People are God's thanks again in work, the number of unemployed is just below that of before Corona, about 300,000 people are still in short work and some crisis-stricken companies still need to be helped at the last few meters. I am a tourist myself, my family runs two tourism companies at home. Today, nine months ago, there was the lockdown, everything was locked – very much in tourism – and seven months of these 15 months the farms have to be. Do you know what happened in the minds of the entrepreneurs? – They were afraid of existence, no one knew how it went on. If you look at this chronologically: In January last year, the first corona infections occurred, and in February this government has already begun to work to link up aid packages for the economy – Mrs. Köstinger, the Federal Minister for Tourism, is responsible for the tourism industry – so that the industry can get through the rounds as well as possible. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens]] ==References== We were sitting here in a special meeting last March, and we all agreed on what we wanted to do – there was unanimity at the time. At that time, this government and you, Mrs Federal Minister, had already launched the short work because you knew there was no more revenue. The question arose as to how to financially secure the farms, so that they do not come into existence and they do not become indebted. At the same time, a bridge credit was granted to the companies at the time – for two years free of interest, five years half of the interest rate, up to 25 percent of the annual turnover. The first one was covered, and no one had to be afraid that any bank would turn off the tap. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Since the farms had been locked up for seven months, it was also known that further help was needed. I don't want to list everyone, I can't. And why are there so many aids? – Because there are different operational structures. One has to see that one does not do this in one, so that it does not get too misused; this has also taken some time. Whoever has only observed this a little bit knows – and also knows it from the opposition parties: Guys, if you're a little fair, you really have to say that! – that this Federal Government has been working day and night with our Federal Chancellor, Kogler, and the entire government team for 15 months, so that this state, the economy and the labour market can be transferred accordingly. This is also clearly confirmed by the foreign media. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] I can still remember the reaction when we said: Let's do the VAT reduction! – Yes, this bureaucratic effort! – Talk to a host or a hoteler today, who explains to you what a bureaucratic effort is. That was the best, most uncomplicated and fastest help. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] The fixed-cost grant, revenue replacement, short-time work – it helped everyone equally much, whether employees or employers. We can now really look positively into the future, including the tourism industry. I am long enough in this business – as an entrepreneur and also as a politician for 16 years – and I trust to say something completely public and clear: I know the value of tourism in this House in the past. Thank God tourism has been equipped with its own ministry, we have our own Minister of Tourism, who also knows from the practice, from her childhood what is happening there, and she understands it. Mrs. Federal Minister, you have helped the Austrian tourism industry and leisure industry, which is why other countries – and here you can ask all your colleagues in Italy, Switzerland, Germany – look jealously at us to learn how this is possible; and some things are still being copied today. The money has arrived with us and in certain countries we cannot even ask for it. That's the true story. Please accept this too! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Of course, what this government has done in order to get through the crisis properly – not only those economic aid, also for the labour market and also in the enterprises – is what Austria has done with the tests; this has been done for example. People from other countries beyond the border have come to us to be tested. Her initiative, Mrs. Federal Minister, with the green passport is exemplary and gives us hope that we will be all right about the summer. [[Cheerfulness and call of the Abg. Worm]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] [[Call the SPÖ: What do you want, please?- Oh, my God!]] I'll tell you one thing, too. Look at England – it was in the news last night – looking for England! [[Abg. Worm: Let's go on vacation to Italy...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] Four weeks the opening steps have been pushed back, and with us there is really the hope that with 1. Return to normality on July – subject to a requirement that we stick to the fact that it remains safe. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Amesbauer]] And how does it stay safe? – By not infecting each other, but letting all of us be vaccinated, as do three quarters of the population; and the rest of the neighborhood will probably be done as well. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Go, come! It's panic!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: Go, come!]] [[Call the FPÖ: Such nonsense!]] Mrs Bundesminister, it is now said to look to the future. We are still going to take some decisions in this regard today. The help has arrived so far. And do you know why they arrived? There you can say from the opposition, whatever you want: Shows me a farm – there is no one – that will last until the 15th century. March last year, when the lockdown came, it was payable and it is no longer today! The farms, which until then were eligible for payment, still exist today. This can be said by Austria, and other countries cannot claim it. We can be proud of this, and the companies know that too. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] As I said, we must not, of course, leave our businesses alone at the last meters, we must see that we are going well into the future; there are still certain areas, such as the organizers, congresses et cetera. Certain funding directives run out because they are no longer necessary, but some have been extended, are still being decided here today – with regard to the default bonus, the loss compensation, the hardness fund, the guarantee of bridge credit and the support – with, of course, a little sharper measures. These extensions are only more valid for those who have a loss of sales of at least 50 percent. [[Abg. Worm: In what quarter?]] We hope that by the end of the year, as I said, we will all get through again. To conclude again: Mrs Bundesminister, I know that this is the money of taxpayers, and it has not been a matter of course that the tourism industry, which has a much higher priority in Austria than in other countries – the economic share of tourism is once more as high as in Switzerland or Italy – has therefore also affected us much more and we also had to do much more with these aids - -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e7439	Please come to a close! The speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e7454	In the greatest post-war crisis, thanks to this Federal Government, which has worked with the mind of the house and with the information of the experts for 15 months, it is possible that we stand there today. That's what I'm honestly saying: Mrs Bundesminister, I thank you on behalf of the tourism and leisure industry.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e7481	The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Regions and Tourism has been reported to speak. I can give her the word. – Mrs Federal Minister, the floor is with you. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e7508	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Love Seers and Watch TV or online! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I am very pleased that today the High House has chosen tourism on the topic of the current hour and – above all – the theme “Safe hospitality: Comeback of Austrian tourism” debated. [[Members of the SPÖ hold panels with the title “Corona-Bonus for everyone!” up to the height and enthrone a banner on the gallery: “For Austria: Crisis Heroes – For the short party: Pöbels”, “Corona-Bonus for everyone!”]] [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The last months of the Corona Pandemic have really gone a long way, especially tourism in Austria, the gastronomy, the leisure industry, the tour operators, but above all also the employees who were affected by the massive restrictions and – almost – the experience of international travel freedom. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] A very great thank you is really to say to all those who have kept up, especially those who have taken over the employees in the short work, the many employees who have also stayed, who have expected it and who now have a significant share in the fact that we -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e7547	May I ask you to take the Taferls back down? We've agreed for 30 seconds. Thank you. Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e7580	Thank you very much, Mr President. That we were in Austria on 19 November. May with a coronalage, an infection situation that was better at weitem than many of the experts predicted, all industries could be locked up at the same time, is especially due to one, and that is the great benefit of the population in this country, the understanding that we are in a pandemic. The painful contact limitations, the testing, the vaccination, all of this has contributed to our being at 19. May have been able to lock up again – for that really a great thank you. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] At present, the positive developments in the labour market are also being seen: The situation improves noticeably, it goes up again. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Locking up was very remarkable in this respect, because we have still been seeing all areas open for three weeks now, constantly falling corona numbers, and the background is that we have not opened easily, but still have security measures and the 3G regulation – tested, vaccinated, healed –. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] We just see that this is really the right strategy. Even if there are reports from the UK, for example, where a virus mutation occurs again, which is a lot more infectious than the mutant we have known so far, this shows that this is the right way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Austria is a tourist country, tourism depends on the fact that there is a stable corona situation now in summer, but especially in autumn and winter, and we will do everything we can to ensure that this remains the same in our country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, with 10. We were able to implement further reliefs on June. This concerns mainly groups of people and the outdoor masks. But the really important step will be taken for us at the beginning of July: Then, above all, events, celebrations, weddings – something very important for social and, of course, private life – will be possible again. All of this will be possible again. But above all – and this is a very important concern for me – we also want to create a possibility that the night gastronomy will be locked up again. We have all seen and experienced the situation on the Danube Canal and also at Karlsplatz. The youth wants to celebrate again, and that is exactly what needs to be made possible again. She really deserved it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In any case, we will also be very careful about this, which is perfectly clear. The 3G rule will remain with us. However, the fact that this is really possible is primarily due to the broad test strategy, to the public's efforts and, above all, to the great advance in vaccination. A person is vaccinated statistically in Austria every second. This currently corresponds to more than 86 000 vaccinated persons a day. For this I really say a great thank you also to the federal states, to the congregations and above all to the many volunteers and volunteers who help us to deal with this great task. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Rössler and Mr Vogluer.]] There are now 27 percent of the population, i.e. 2.1 million people, with full immunization, so they already have the second trick. We are very confident that this will continue in the next few months – a very great thank you for that! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] At this point, however, I can also mention an initiative on our part, which really worked very well and which, even last year, made a significant contribution to the fact that we had a good summer season: This is our test program Safe hospitality. We are the only country in the world to test staff, especially from gastronomy and tourism, once a week using PCR testing. This also works very well on the spot, and this has also led to the fact that, in addition to the topic of hospitality, we have also been able to address what is mainly important for foreign guests, and that is the subject of security. We have seen in recent months how much this guest behaviour also changes. In the past, guests used to ask for booking requests: How is the wellness area set up? Is there a parking lot? Does Wi-Fi work? – Now the first question is what the corona situation is, how the rules are and whether you are really safe on your vacation, and we were able to implement this through our test program Safe hospitality. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Did the boss tell you about the sacher?]] Almost 1.5 million PCR tests have now been carried out. At the same time, we have also created the possibility of self-testing on site, i.e. even a spontaneous coffee house, restaurant visit is not in the way. There is the possibility to be tested at the inn of the host, in the gastronomy. I would also like to say a great thank you to the federal states for their good cooperation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The holiday, however, needs above all the restoration of travel freedom. That was the reason for our great commitment to create Europe-wide regulations, that not only – and I ask you to listen really well – can travel again as a vaccinated person – these plans have been made by some countries, but we have implemented the green passport in Europe and have thus provided the opportunity to re-cross the vaccinated, tested and healed borders and, above all, to take advantage of a holiday. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] This has always been an important concern for us as a federal government. On the one hand, there are countries with a significantly lower vaccination rate than in Austria, and on the other hand there will always be people who are not allowed to be vaccinated – and that is okay. In the final effect, it still needs to be possible to travel again, and this is possible again as a healer and tester with the green pass in Europe. [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens.]] The competent Ministry of Health is working on implementation. Step by step, the evidence is also equipped with the QR code. Since 10. The tests are already covered by the EU-wide QR code. These can be scanned at qr.gv.at. From 18.6. it will be the Green Check app for gastronomy, hotel industry and the event industry in particular, which we provide to understand very easily and very quickly. In addition to all of this, we have also economically supported our businesses. We have taken early measures, Gabriel Obernosterer has already mentioned this. We have tried, above all, to address the many differences in the sectors: the insolvency protection for the tour operators; the protection shield for the event industry could be increased to 10 million euros – it has already been given funding commitments of around 86 million euros – and we have created a special solution for private tenants; we have created a host garden offensive and made it possible to increase the liability of investments in addition to the investment premium. All of this has contributed to the fact that our businesses can lock up well, properly and securely now, fully start through and do what they can best, and that is in the final effect to ensure hospitality and to offer all of us the proven cuisine. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] At the same time, we started a comeback process from the Ministry of Tourism with the whole tourism industry, because of course we also saw in the Corona crisis how many challenges there are in tourism despite the good decades in the past and that we also have weaknesses that we want to resolve. We discussed many of the challenges together with the entire industry in a very large-scale participation process in April. This concerns mainly the tourist labour market, which is currently the most burning issue for us. Although there are still many jobseekers, the tourism industry is looking for skilled workers. In particular, this is also a topic with Minister of Labour Martin Kocher, which we address strategicly for the future. I really say a lot of thanks to all the businesses. It is about 20 000 who have taken over their employees in the short work. This was not free of charge for the establishments. This has cost them a lot of money, but it has paid off in the final effect because the good staff has remained the same. With the extension of short-time work and further economic aid to the sectors particularly affected, we are creating a means of survival. We will all be required in the future. The activity in tourism, in which gastronomy is actually one of the most beautiful professions in the world, because you come into contact with people. The service, the service is something that comes back a lot. We want to focus on education and training, especially on the training of apprentices, and we will do so together with the industry. Tourism in the regions is a second very important measure that we are now implementing. We have seen in the Corona pandemic that it is not only a hotel that depends on tourism, but it is the meats, the bakers on the spot, the hairdressers, the laundry, the agriculture – all depend on the fact that there are guests in our country. We will start a number of new initiatives, particularly in cooperation with agriculture. The third very important subject concerns the travel behaviour of the future. What do guests expect from the country of vacation, from the Congressland, from the Messeland Austria, when they arrive in the coming years? – That is exactly what we are working on with the Austrian advertising. We will start a very big focus on congress tourism and, above all, position our events, our art and culture on the front line. The fourth issue concerns financing perspectives. There is a disastrous capitalization in tourism – that was already known to us before. This has been reinforced by the crisis. Together with experts, we discuss opportunities such as commercial tourism promotion and other solutions to strengthen equity capital. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In the end, we will have managed – together with the many entrepreneurs, with the approximately 750 000 employees who depend on the congresses of tourism, the event industry, the gastronomy, the fairs. At the end of the day, we will definitely get out of this crisis, and I am absolutely convinced of that. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The success of tourism in Austria is not a coincidence, but the result of hard work by many entrepreneurs, by many dedicated and motivated employees, and we are very grateful and above all our full support. Let's go!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e7706	Members of the Churchbaumer have been reported to speak. The speaking time is now 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e7728	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Our guests here in the gallery and at home! Tourism is one of the most important sectors in Austria. As a Tyrolean, tourism is, of course, especially at my heart. At the age of four, I was able to serve our guests our breakfast collection. In 2019, the tourism industry generated EUR 28.3 billion directly and indirectly. This corresponds to 7.3 percent of the gross domestic product. Safe hospitality is not only a saying, but we live in Austria. Austria is the most hospitable country in the world. Tourism, the gastronomy, the hotel industry have a high priority in Austria and far beyond our borders. [[Abg. Belakovich:... how do you get on it?]] The tourism industry, the hotel industry, the gastronomy and the trade fair, leisure and event sectors are among the worst sectors affected by the pandemic. We have an incredible happiness that our Federal Minister Elisabeth Köstinger has set all levers in motion from the beginning to support these industries and to help them as best as possible. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The organiser screen alone made it possible to pay 300 million euros – 10 million euros per organizer. The city hotel industry will need another time to survive this pandemic well. It is right and important to continue to provide assistance. Our tourism minister, Elli Köstinger, is committed to this task in order to continue to obtain help with all his strength – a great thank you for that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] A brief look at the aid already paid: fixed-cost grant: over 420 million euros paid; Loss replacement: around 11 million euros paid; Lockdown revenue in November: over 1 billion euros paid ; [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens]] Lockdown revenue in December: additional EUR 590 million paid; Outage bonus: Around 600 million euros paid. – These aids speak for themselves. Our neighbouring countries look jealously at us. The pandemic has shown us how important this industry is – for society, for the labour market and for the guests we are allowed to host. The strategy of secure hospitality was developed together with the members of the Federal Government, primarily Federal Minister Köstinger, the federal states, the municipal government, the municipal government and the social partners. It was also important, in addition to the date of openings, under which safety requirements the gastronomy, the hotel industry, the event and leisure industry can be re-opened. Further opening steps are in view, such as for night gastronomy. It is important to this government and also to entrepreneurs that the framework conditions for the greatest possible freedom and the greatest possible security are given. The opening steps also created jobs in the gastronomy for unemployed people. 880 000 people were unemployed in the tourism sector through the pandemic. Many people were able to find work again through the opening steps. The 3G rule shows the following effect: The numbers are constantly going down. In summer, events will be possible again. Nevertheless, we must continue to be vigilant and must not put the successes already achieved at risk. The vaccination will be the way out of the pandemic. Nevertheless, the tests also need to be carried out until all the vaccines are vaccinated. The economy contributes a large part to the fact that the tests can also be carried out in the establishments. The local hostess and their employees not only make a job, but they are a hostess with their body and soul. Our Federal Chancellor Sebastian In cooperation with the entire government team, it is important that all people in Austria feel safe and comfortable. Safe for the guest, safe for the workers, safety for the people in Austria: That is the aim of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e7789	Mrs Erasim is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e7811	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! [[The speaker put a table with the title “Corona-Bonus for everyone!” on the speaker’s desk.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, you will present here once again your supposedly great comeback plan for the Austrian hotel industry and gastronomy. They turn on diligent ads, make PR shows, and operate reality refusal in a very large style. Only: They can be held here for bonuses, which are for Many system holders will never be in reach. We call for this bonus to be paid out to all employees of general interest. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, they do one thing: They divide and distinguish between hard-working people who get a bonus, and hard-working people who just don't get a bonus – cleaning workers who have taken care that our hospitals are sterile, rescuers who have driven much more stakes and who have been exposed to a huge risk as first helpers. All these people tell you in the face: We've clap for you anyway, that must be enough, you don't get any money from us! – I would really be ashamed of that. Mr. Klubobmann Wöginger – who is not present now – who was the former chief executive of the Red Cross, forgets in this difficult situation a really bad behavior on his former colleagues! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We Socialists and Socialists are fighting shoulder to shoulder with all those who have followed their work more diligently, at the same time with incredible extra burdens with childcare, home schooling, but also with the many employees who have not been able to work. And that's where we come back to tourism and gastronomy. We also think of all those who were in short work who lost their job, who had to consume their savings. All of them have good policies that deserve their names as well. Can you explain to me how you make a worker, a worker, understand that Mr. Schmid gets 200 000 euros of discharge, the heroes of the crisis, whom you have fully promised that they will be thanked, but look through their fingers? You promised so much and unfortunately you didn't like it. The most recent example is the green passport you are now looking forward to, which was first seriously designed for data protection and could only be passed as a law after many repair proposals by SPÖ. This is your next flop! He is a pan-European salmon number – hand-made, as well as much in this government that taps from one pan to the next. [[We welcome the SPÖ as well as Mr Krisper and Mr Loacker.]] The huge shortage of skilled workers is also a problem that you, Mrs Minister, can write on top of your flag. The time of the pandemic has not been used to provide sufficient prospects for employees in this sector. And what is your answer? – The rules of availability should be tightened, thus depriving people of their roots and being torn away from their families and keeping a kind of modern slavery in place. This is another signal, so that no one tries to take a foothold in these sectors that are so relevant to Austria's economy. The funds you pay are often not accurate and even transparent behind the opaque veil of the Cofag, in which obviously so much secret happens, that not even we as elected representatives of the people are allowed to look in. That is why we suggest that every family, every household, make a corona thousander available in the form of consumer vouchers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This would really boost the economy, help small businesses and enable families to experience beautiful experiences after a long time with many hardships. In the same way, 30 000 jobs would be secured, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. medium-sized companies would benefit from this – and this is what businesses in the hotel industry and gastronomy need like a bite of bread. In many areas, sales are currently moving at less than 50 per cent compared to the pre-crisis level, even if you are so delighted. And if you do not want to risk a pleite wave enormously, then finally you support proposals that actually help create jobs and save businesses! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e7904	Mr Hauser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e7925	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Now we have heard three previous ÖVP speakers who have tried to speak well of the world that is not beautiful. How does the truth look? – The permanent lockdown from 2. November has caused such a collated damage to tourism, as it has never been. This was a maximum damage to tourism, not caused by anyone, Mr Obernosterer, but by government policy. And for that you will be glad! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Mr Haubner and Mr Obernoster.]] ==References== May opens, and I say that again and again: with dressed hand brake. And since you say it's all so good: At its ÖHV Congress, the Austrian Hoteliers Association asked entrepreneurs how they assessed the performance of the Federal Government, the government policy, and this assessment resulted in a threesome. If you add to this threesome what I have to say now, namely: no preparation for the time after and, in part, non-social support policy, then at best you come to a four, if not a smooth five. In this way, the disastrous policy of this government, which has caused a collapseal damage and a maximum damage to the Austrian tourism industry, to an extent that was not necessary, and to an extent that has never been achieved in this Republic at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What did the competition show? – Mr Obernosterer, you know very well! In Switzerland, our safety concept, which we have prepared for our businesses, has been implemented from January onwards. The ski lifts were open, the hotel shop was open, and 50 percent of the value added was achieved, while we received a 97 percent discount. That's how it looks! We do not need to look abroad permanently and say how bad it is there. The competition from abroad looks at us, she shook her head and said: For God's sake, why is Austrian tourism totally locked up? In winter, in the course of the debate, I raised the demand several times and said: Why don't you lock up the apartments? Why don't you block the chalets, the holiday homes where guests can live in isolation from other guests? – You have not even responded to these proposals! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] You wanted to lock up. You've caused a collateral damage, and now you're going here and you're saying, For God's sake! We are so good, we are so strong, we are Anton from Tyrol! – Unfortunately, God does not look like that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Aid for self-help – has not been implemented: For a year now, our initiatives have been to strengthen the equity of the Tourism Committee. This is a continuous loop, a permanent delay. What did we want? – We wanted to strengthen equity. Of course, it is known that businesses need increased equity. Then you have to act, then you have to do it, but you only delayed our initiatives. We wanted a balance sheet. We wanted to have equality between own and foreign capital interest rates. You have done nothing but delay our requests! As regards the reduction in additional labour costs, nothing has yet to go further. So homework is not done, sleep, sleep – not enough! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And how does the compensation look? – They are quite pervasive and different. With regard to the Epidemic Act: Most of the farms have been waiting 13 months for compensation under the Epidemic Act. This is a witness of poverty! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] With regard to all farms with more than ten beds, in respect of all tourist owners with more than ten beds, we had to fight for 13 months so that a claim for compensation was granted at all. That was our initiative. If we had not used ourselves for the private landlords, for the mass of small businesses, there would have been nothing at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There was nothing in the first rounds. As a Freedom Party, we were the patron saint for private businesses, for the small intellectuals, for the small landlords at all. Look at what the structure looks like! [[The speaker shall present a poster showing a table containing nine categories in respect of rental, in which support models such as hardness fund, revenue replacement November and December 2020, default bonus et cetera are compared to the speaker's desk.]] I have made the effort to see how to make a simple subject in itself complicated. You have created such an undifferentiated, opaque support structure for small businesses, with a bureaucracy madness and requirements for the enterprises that are least perceptive, and you have created a structure that can be made easier. What would you have done? – You should have said: All establishments which are officially closed by the Government, the Authority, shall be compensated for.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e8019	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e8034	There is no need for a complex, undifferentiated, non-comprehensible structure in which many tourism companies that rent more than ten beds have not yet been paid a penny. [[Abg. Haubner: No one believes that!]] It's a witness to poverty. Finally, do the homework!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e8070	May I ask you! Time has far exceeded.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e8085	Stop rejoicing your politics in the House!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e8151	Member of the European Parliament has been called upon to speak on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e8172	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear audience! Tourism is clearly one of the most important sectors in Austria. Let's start with the good news: I'm sure we have a good summer in front of us. We are all happy about the relaxations and openings. The seven-day incidence has declined dramatically, Thanks to the many people who have already been vaccinated – over six million people have already been vaccinated – I do not expect further restrictions. The situation has stabilised across Europe. People want to travel again, and they will come. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] These are very good news for the tourism industry. At the same time, however, there are also bad news, I would like to address two issues:, of course, the crisis that affected tourism, and, secondly, structural deficits. The crisis: As has been said, tourism is particularly affected, but thanks to the numerous support measures tourism companies have also been very well hit by the crisis. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] How's it going? – Some areas, especially the city hotels, but also the night gastronomy and, in part, the tour operators, will have to struggle even longer with difficulties. It makes absolutely the sense of extending support measures for the people of Europe, and that is what happens. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Erasim, I think, has addressed the companies that have a 50 percent loss of turnover. That's exactly what was thought of: Yesterday, it was announced that companies with more than 50 percent turnover loss can expect comprehensive support measures. The default bonus replaces the turnover they fail to meet with by a replacement rate. The replacement rate is adjusted to the usual costs in the industry, and in tourism this is in a 40 percent order. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There is the hardness fund for hard cases, i.e. a safety net for entrepreneurs, on the one hand, and a 50 percent loss of sales. In addition, all those who cannot cover their costs for any reason – for corona-related reasons – will receive 600 to 2 000 euros. This too is very valuable. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Then there is the loss compensation for the farms that make corona due to losses. Of course, they have the duty to minimize their damage, they cannot pack in all the losses, but corona-related losses are covered, even again when turnover has fallen by 50 percent compared to the pre-crisis level. Furthermore, the corona-related short-time work will be extended for companies with massive sales losses. A topic that we have already discussed in detail here is the Event Protection Screen. This too is very valuable for tourism because it guarantees that cultural offers can continue to take place. I would like to come up with structural issues: It has been shown that the Corona crisis brings us more serious structural problems. One of the issues I would like to address is the competition of businesses. In recent years, bedding castles have emerged because companies with more beds have hoped for more sales. More turnover, however, no longer means value added. There are numerous four star companies in Tyrol that have upgraded to five star levels and demand three star prices. It can't go out, something has to turn around again. There are seasonal farms that are only 40 percent of the year, which are also completely unattractive as employers. We also need to change something. We need to focus more on quality, on value creation and also on age-oldness. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The funding structures need to be adapted to that, we need to strengthen this diversity, even the small parts of the plants are a great quality. There has already been some progress, including the introduction of the investment premium. Many businesses have used them to invest ecologically. Currently, protective huts in Tyrol and cycling and hiking trails are being expanded to strengthen the local offer. A good topic is also the holiday without a car. How can I travel by train and move on site without a car? That's where it takes bike or car sharing offers. An example of annuality are hotels that offer almost home office in the hotel. I think this is a great way to combine this new trend towards home work with vacation. This allows you to combine vacation and work. Our goal is that tourist towns, tourist areas are a good place to live, also for the working population, and we work on them. Another topic is tourism that is empty. This requires appropriate idleness management. We do not want more beds, but rather reduce their number, adapted to demand. Summary: I am convinced that Austrian tourism has a great future. On the one hand, there are unique cultural offers and on the other hand a great intact nature. We need to strengthen and expand these strengths. At the same time, we also need to make new things possible, and we want to support businesses.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e8275	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e8296	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Colleague Götze has not now explained how she wants to run a hotel all year round in Galtür or in Schoppernau. Because in October and November, the toes freeze off. You can explain this to me afterwards. The Minister for Agriculture is not only the Minister for Agriculture, the Hogs and the Moeds, but also the Minister for Tourism, and sometimes she is the Minister of Health – at least she means that. [[He-Rufe at ÖVP]] [[Rejoicing with the NEOS]] And so last year you issued the test strategy for tourism, not in agreement with the Minister of Health. That was a bit of a fiasco because you didn't think that a company wouldn't let all the employees test if, because of a suspicion, the entire workforce is in quarantine for 14 days. They would have been better quiet and better coordinated with the Minister. You didn't. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] The learning curve has remained flat, and so you are again loud on health issues this year. You've completed advertising, you've completed press conferences – the listeners can post your text chunks, which are already externally written down – and have presented a comeback plan of tourism. You told about the process with the industry earlier, in this process you have come up with: We have an expert theme in tourism, we have an apprentice topic in tourism and we have problems with financing! – After that I would not have needed a expensive trial with the ministry! For example, what tourism would have needed would be early announcements of what the conditions are when companies lock up again. If they do major events, they may need two months in advance. The companies didn't have that. This costs jobs that costs entrepreneurs revenue and that costs the public tax money. They were also loud: ==References== In the “press hour” you said in May: Austria introduces the green passport faster than the EU! And if the EU is so confused, you have said that Austria will conclude bilateral agreements with the other countries on the green passport! And now? – Now ten EU countries have finished the green pass. Who didn't finish it? – The Republic of Austria. [[Federal Minister Köstinger: Since 19. May!]] You were a little loud. We do not even have the largest group that the vaccinated, the QR code with which you can cross the border. This is your announcement policy: At press conferences and media events – wonderful, amazingly staged – you will be acting sovereignly. But the work behind it? – You know, bone work is always 95 percent and announcing 5 percent of the story. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Kaniak.]] Now you're talking about safe tourism in summer 2021. There you can test a lot, the guests are also allowed to perform self-tests in the hotel. But the point is whether these tests, if you have drilled yourself in the nose, are also recognized by the country of origin of the tourists – in many cases not. What they need is a test that's had a foreign application, but you can't do that at the hotel. [[Interference of Federal Minister Köstinger.]] Tourists, for example, if they go to a pharmacy and have a test carried out, have to pay 25 euros. That's the hospitality you didn't organize. They would have had to sit down and, together with the Minister of Health, with the pharmacies represented in all corners of the Republic, build a network where tourists can easily go, be tested and then get a test recognised for their home country, without having to pay 25 euros. Real tourism advertising looks different from what you're fabricating. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Kaniak.]] We have a massive labour shortage in tourism. Today, the head of tourism in the WKO has said that 50 000 workers are missing. What Does Your government? – It extends the short work even for people who are in 0 percent short work. So with tax money, we pay people to stay at home while they would be needed elsewhere. That's your economic policy, that's your expert policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] People are paid for nothing – and you are celebrating this! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] Tourism also means open international shops. Where people are going, they might want to go shopping. This is especially true of urban tourism, which suffers particularly. As a creative government, one might say: Let us try it with open shops – where the tourists come to, so that they can also go shopping and thus pick up our stationary trade, which he has lost to the online trade. There's nothing coming. You can shop in Italy, Croatia, Czech Republic, Poland and Portugal – everything remains closed in Austria! You could speak with one voice when it comes to improving the competitiveness of the shopping destination Austria, but there is nothing you do.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e8397	Member of the Tsarits has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e8418	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Gerald Loacker, I find it interesting, That people who always know everything better haven't done anything better in their entire life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The most important thing, however, is that we are on a good path in this pandemic fight, and the most important thing is that we also have a goal in mind and that we are in this pandemic fight at the last few meters. In the last 15 months, we have put in place many measures aimed at strengthening the economy and at securing jobs. Let us look at tourism, the sports sector, which for me also belongs to tourism, art and culture in 2019 or in January 2020: The pictures we see: full slopes, full huts, the gastronomy is full, the sports courts are full, the halls are full, the sporting events, the art and cultural scene – Austria has shown itself from its best side in tourism. Our goal is – together with Sebastian Kurz, Werner Kogler and our Minister of Tourism – to get back there. I am convinced that the measures we have taken will also create the comeback for Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The last 15 months have been a challenge in the area of tourism, sports, art and culture, as well as in many other areas. Yes, that was a challenge, yes, we know. Yes, with the decisions we made, we also required a lot of people, but it was necessary. You know why we're already on the opening steps on 19th. Can I do it on May? – Because we are far beyond other countries in the fight against pandemics due to these measures. Another point is that the people in Austria have participated in this pandemic fight in solidarity. Another reason why we are more than other countries is that the test strategy, thanks to the Federal Minister, also works: We test in the communities, we test in the pharmacies, we test in the schools – up to the living room. The good thing and all of this is that the vaccination strategy works that the vaccinations are moving forward. Every second a person is vaccinated in Austria. ==References== July we will manage to have five million people vaccinated, and I think that is the key to success. We are in this pandemic fight at the last few metres, and I am convinced that we are also, together with the countries, with the municipalities and, above all, with the Austrian people, with the people who also adhere to the measures. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, yes, we all know how important tourism is for us. We all know how important the sport is for us. In tourism we have had a value added of 60 billion euros before Corona, it is more than 300 000 people who find work in the tourism sector, and that is exactly where we have to start. Over the last 15 months, we have put in place important measures to support tourism in order to support entrepreneurs. Mr Obernosterer said: The aid measures, the aid packages that we have chained, have worked. We are much more there than other countries. Especially in the area of tourism, it was important that we, together with the social partners, have decided on short work. There has already been a payment of EUR 1.6 billion, and we have secured hundreds of thousands of jobs, especially in tourism. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, tourism, sport, art and culture belong together. When we think back to the great sporting events, we think back to the great art and cultural events, which of course many hundreds of thousands of people out of Bringing us home and abroad and bringing people to make vacations with us! I am also thinking of the sport sector in which it was possible to open up earlier than other countries because of the measures we have put in place. There are 15,000 clubs in Austria. There are 580 000 volunteers in the sports clubs and 2.1 million members who are involved in the sports clubs. That's where we start along with tourism. It is, of course, a great joy for me and for many others that the sports courts are full again that the children and young people can play sports again, that the sports halls are full again. Now also a great news – you have heard it all in the media, and there you can see that the measures we have put in place and the pandemic control in Austria also work and are also internationally recognized –: There will be four major sporting events in Styria, two Moto GP and two Formula 1 events. This shows that we are on the right path that the Federal Government, with our chancellor, has taken the right measures with our tourism minister. We need further opening steps. ==References== In May the first opening steps and the second opening steps were announced a few days ago – and with 1. It's going uphill on July. I'm convinced: We're on the last foot of this pandemic fight, and I know we're gonna do it together.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e8508	Member of the Seemayer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e8530	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! It is good that tourism is back uphill, even though it is still subject to restrictions and some protection measures. It is good that employees in the industry can return to their jobs after a long time, and of course it is also gratifying that the situation on the labour market is thus relaxed. All of this is because the industry can lock up and do its work again. The fact that this is now sold as a merit of the Federal Government is difficult to understand. If we already have the opportunity to discuss tourism and the industry here, I think it is also important that we talk about employees in this sector. What has happened to the countless colleagues in the last few months in tourism, gastronomy, hotel industry and the event industry? – Many of them have lost their job, so they have to fight their livelihood with less than half of their income or with about half of their income. Many of the colleagues in tourism also had the opportunity to take advantage of short-time work, but nevertheless the unemployment figures show us that employment conditions are still being resolved in this area, as is unfortunately common in the industry. Now it can be seen that short-time work has brought an advantage not only to employees but also to entrepreneurs in the industry: They've been able to keep their professionals. Over the last few days, we have heard reports that experts are being sought that employees are being searched for in tourism. Many, however, have left the industry during their unemployment. This, of course, has many reasons: One reason is job security. If someone in an industry has already become unemployed several times, we must not suspect that he is looking around for a job that brings more security. Many have also been unable to afford to continue and wait for unemployment in their industry until you can lock up and return to work. We have put forward numerous applications to increase unemployment benefit in order to also give people the opportunity to bridge this unemployment. Another reason is that people have done exactly what they expect: Unemployed people have sought work, because most people do not like to be unemployed. If one hears here in the house the demand that the AMS no longer mediate unemployed people from tourism into other sectors or should no longer pay re-trainings, then that is not to be understood. People didn't deserve that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If, then, the dried demand for relaxation of the threshold comes: Ladies and gentlemen, it will not be possible to do this with people, it is world-wide. Most people have family, embedded in an environment that does not allow them to move the food point by hundreds of miles. There are child care obligations – even if it is the grandchildren you need to look after – there are care obligations to your parents when you have to be there for them or if you want to be there for them, because they can't be so good anymore. There are other measures that need to be taken. There is a need for measures to ensure that people are able to work in tourism again and are looking for employment there. The measures are job security, year-round employment, regulated working hours, as far as possible, appropriate remuneration, but also training opportunities in the industry. That is where we talk about framework conditions, where we talk about working conditions that we need to shape in such a way that people are motivated to seek employment in the industry. Because we're just under conditions and how we deal with people: Mrs. Federal Minister, you are responsible for civil service. This is only on the agenda tomorrow, but a few words on it: Tomorrow, a step will be taken to approximate the treatment of military and civil servants, but only because the Constitutional Court expressed concerns about this inequality. It almost seems to me that inequality has become a government measure in recent months – otherwise, one cannot understand the current draft on the Coronabonus. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] While caregivers, doctors and doctors should receive the bonus, civil servants should be empty in this story, as well as cleaning staff employed in hospitals, or workers in patient transport. Nor do the paramedics in the Rescue have any claim to the Coronabonus, no matter where they are employed – the Samaritan League, the Red Cross and so on. If we strive for good conditions, we strive for good employees, then the opening and a good season will not stand in the way! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e8600	Member of the Angerer Chamber has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e8626	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Above all, however, valued innkeepers in this country with their employees! If I hear Mr Obernosterer's speech as host and Mr Zarits from the ÖVP, I note that the ÖVP clearly expects to be grateful from the hosts in this country. I have to tell you about what you did to the gastronomy last year would be more humble and respectful to the gastronists. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They are the ones who have generated the taxes so that you can distribute the money today and say that it was so great what you did. They are those who will have to pay the debt even in the future, and they are the ones who now - as you have correctly said - have to fight for their existence and see that they will bring their employees back into employment. To the gratitude you ask for what you have done for the gastronomy in recent years: Let's do this a little revue! It started with the restricted ban on smoking – the host has been allowed to convert – then the total ban on smoking came, after that the Allergen Regulation, after which one destroyed the spa club culture in the gastronomy companies, then came the registration fee requirement – countless tasks and conditions. So that's gratitude! I tell you, the joy of the hostess and hostess of what you have done for them is limited. When I look at the corona measures: First, the abolition of the Epidemie Act – thus making the businesses a bit bitter – and then there were superfluous requirements and regulations made so that everyone would need a tax advisor so that he could make a request at all, or even be entitled to claim. For this we have had to fight over the whole last year – only with the private room tenants, which Mr Hauser has already mentioned. That's what you've done for businesses in recent years. Then let's look at the calming game with the sales replacement last autumn – in November and December –: That's where you've obviously pulled the lines. Of course, this revenue will still have to be taxed and taxed this year. For this help that has been given to them, there will also be a certain awakening at the establishments. Let us look at the regulations that were issued – only the best-of –: First, as far as the mask theme is concerned, we have had this mask with the plexiglass pane, then the oral nose protection has come, now we have the FFP2 mask. The 50-metre rule: It's completely insane that you can't use anything 50 meters around a local. In ski resorts, the ski hut may be open in the valley – thank you very much when I go skiing, it is very helpful when a ski hut is open in the valley! Or you can hold celebrations such as weddings in a gastronomy business, but food and drinks must not be given – a lot of fun at the wedding! [[Abg. Oh, my God!]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Köstinger.]] These are just a few excerpts from your regulations – completely out of the world, completely practical. That was what you gave up to the farms. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] If we look further at the limitations: Over seven months, the farms were locked up. First of all, there was the hope that you might be able to lock up for Christmas, during the Christmas holidays. The next hope was: perhaps in the winter season!, the next hope: perhaps at Easter! – There was no planning for the plants, they were left completely in the air and did not know when to lock them up. This, of course, has led many of their employees to look after new jobs and to look after them. That is, if we look at the current situation, in which gastronomy is a huge problem. The employees were unemployed or in short-time work, they had massive losses in their incomes. A unemployed person who receives 55 percent of the income and whose drink money is lost must look for a new job. Today, the businesses stand and have no employees – this is the situation, they fight, against which you have to do something. [[Abg. Hörl: You are...!]] What's going on now: The seasonal staff must be employed for at least six months so that they are entitled to unemployment benefit again in the autumn. They're hanging back in the air now because they don't get this time together. These are the problems that would be solved, but none of them is solved to this day, there are always only empty phrases and dictionaries. Now something is being done again, something new is being set up again, and the plants are left in the rain. Mrs Minister, I am reading today at the current hour: visible hospitality. [[Federal Minister Köstinger: Security!]] Please, dear Elli Köstinger, visible hospitality: This is not a visible hospitality! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Köstinger: Sure!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kickl.]] Please take the staff, the pretty staff with us in the gastronomy, our hostess finally take off the masks – this is visible hospitality! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disoski.]] Then there will be a comeback in tourism – there will be no comeback in tourism. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e8748	Mrs Rössler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e8769	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated listeners in front of the screens! Why do people like to come to Austria on vacation? – It’s the cities, it’s the culture, it’s a huge sport and outdoor range from skiing to hiking, but it’s also the landscape and nature. The top names of why people come to Austria on vacation are: Mountains, forests, lakes – and hospitality alike. It is these qualities that are the largest and most valuable capital for Austrian tourism. This is the brand of quality tourism, so: Come back Quality tourism in Austria! This is our capital, these are high-quality jobs, these are working conditions that offer quality and hospitality. Hospitality lives from the encounter. Hospitality is more than service. Hospitality is the meeting with guests, building a personal relationship with them, so that they can come back too – this is our most important capital. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Quality tourism, however, does not mean mass and price struggle. Price struggle leads to poor working conditions, to poorer quality of life through overtourism in the region and also to overload of natural spaces and landscape. The holiday brand in Austria combines these quality features. Nature and hospitality are our capital. Recreation, recreation landscapes are thus also a capital of our tourist future. The holiday region Hohe Tauern National Park, a tourist region, a large tourist region in a large ski resort, Salzburg, Tyrol, embedded in the magnificent natural landscape of the Hohe Tauern National Park, has developed or revised a model a few years ago. This has begun to invite young people, young entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs to ask: What conditions do you need in order to take over your parental operation? It is no longer natural for the next generation to want to take over the operation. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] First: Young people want to stay in the region, they want to take over the farm. Secondly, There was a clear commitment to natural and, above all, natural quality tourism. Hospitality needs this encounter. That was the wish and that was also the expression in the context of this guide. Thirdly, The urgent appeal came to state the stop of the beds and not to increase the capacity of tourism with very questionable tourism concepts – from the aparthotel to chalet villages, which are in fact nothing but properties and speculation, real estate driven, and not linked to quality tourism. Fourth: The desire for regionality means creating regional-typical offers, from food to regional-typical other offers, events and so on. It is about the brand hospitality and the brand appreciation of the product you offer, and this also includes conveying appreciation for the guest. This is our chance, and any opportunity also poses risks, and the greatest risk at present is the planless establishment of non-quality tourism offers. And it makes a difference whether the guest will be received personally or whether he will take over a four-digit number code and go to the keybox and lock some door. That is the difference, and we must necessarily stick to quality tourism. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] This is the plea for the comeback of Austrian quality tourism, for the comeback of the holiday brand in Austria and it is above all an appeal to the federal states and the municipalities regarding the spatial planning, because there are the conditions for whether we continue to have economically viable quality farms, ecologically viable in a magnificent natural landscape and also socially viable with good working conditions that maintain and bind quality workers in the region. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] These spatial planning framework conditions decide on location security for the management companies of Austrian quality tourism – it is necessary that the spatial planning assume this responsibility – and planning security through orderly development. The municipalities and the countries are responsible for this. I come to the conclusion: Quality tourism is also the key factor in maintaining living urban and local cores, which depends on each other. The guest is looking for a regional typical offer at the resort. He needs the shops, he needs the craftsmanship, he needs the regional typical offer. I wish all entrepreneurs and companies in tourism a successful summer and I look forward to the holiday in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e8866	Mrs Larive is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e8887	Mr President. High house! Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear spectators at home! [[The salutation also in sign language:]] Love deaf people! “Safer hospitality: Comeback of Austrian tourism’: Our Federal Government is trying to increase the role of tourism in the Austrian economy. Apart from the partly chaotic pandemic fight, Austria has a high share of tourism with around 15 percent of GDP. It is all the more surprising how poor and self-centered the preparations for this summer have been. I can remind you that after the summer of autumn comes and that the big slumber cannot continue in this form. In the case of enterprises, perspectiveness is becoming widespread, especially in urban tourism and in the companies dependent on it. In mid-June, companies still do not know what aid will be extended in what form. The Wifo confirms the expected development of tourism: In the absence of international guests, urban tourism expects sensitive losses of more than 50 percent of the volume achieved in 2019. The Federal Government also saw this development and it was even discussed, but short-term Husch-pusch actions followed. As early as December 2020, we called for the introduction of a targeted and rapid instrument of loss compensation. This instrument according to the so-called Kiel model is the same that the designed Wifo chief Felbermayr has recommended for months. In May 2021, we reaffirmed this demand once again. And why? – The loss compensation would be more uncomplicated, more effective than anything that is now vague on the table, and would finally give entrepreneurs what they urgently need: Planability because the companies concerned finally need a perspective again. [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] From the numerous mistakes of the past there must be a knowledge of how to shape aid instruments so that companies are helped quickly, unbureaucratically and purposefully. That must be the ultimate goal! On the other hand, it also needs new impulses for the event industry, which is closely linked to urban tourism. Events need long lead times. Trade fairs, congresses and so on follow long cycles that are coordinated years before. That is why we are also making a request today to provide incentives for more events. The Vienna Meeting Fund should serve as a template. Of course, it is up to the Federal Government to find a suitable version for the whole of Austria in scope and design. We are ready for constructive discussions at any time. Proposing constructive cooperation: We have been pointing out for months the major liquidity problems. We have been proposing for months to introduce new instruments to increase the equity of companies. All proposals are rejected. There are no discussions, let alone signs of problem perception. The equity ratio in Austria was on average 8 percent even before the crisis. It is also not new that Austria is far removed in this area in the EU. Since 2008, the Federal Governments have been writing improvements to this situation in the programmes – so far without success. There was also a Council of Ministers decision last year, but it was not delivered. Apparently this applies: Not the one that is reached counts, but the one that is told is enough. We can only hope that you have listened to the recommendations of the tourism experts in the area of banks and business loyals. On Monday, the Minister of Finance announced that the Council of Ministers decision of last year was finally drawn up. The Black Peter was also assigned to the green junior partner. It is already remarkable how the EIA announces much in real reforms, but does nothing. So the signs are little positive. Do me a favor: [[towards Federal Minister Köstinger]] Surprise us and yourself with real and ambitious reforms! If we can finally talk about what has been achieved, our reactions will also be far more positive. If you put something forward, we can decide together in autumn! You know it yourself: The clock is ticking! When we implement your promises, we look closely at them. Thank you. [[Thank you also in sign language:]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e8959	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. I should like to thank the Federal Minister for her presence. [[10:28:33]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e8984	We're coming up to date now. European hours on the subject: “Free Austria with free citizens instead of EU-compulsory happiness through cash limitation and debt union, Federal Chancellor!” I can very much welcome the Chancellor and the Minister for Constitutional Affairs in our midst. I also welcome the Members of the European Parliament, Mr tiny, Mr Vollah, Mr Mayer, Mr Waitz and Mr Gamon. First of all, Mrs Petra Steger, has a speaking time of 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e9017	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Yes, we have experienced a lockdown in recent months thanks to this federal government. Many employees have been forced to do nothing for months, and this, although we know exactly how few lockdowns bring and how harmful they are in truth – harmful to the economy, to health and, above all, to the working class. As you all know, we have always been determined opponents of Lockdowns. However, on the other hand, I must honestly admit that, if I had been looking at the initiatives and proposals of the EU Commission, I would have wished a lockdown, just to spare us these constant interventions in our national sovereignty and these constant absurd proposals from the EU. This, ladies and gentlemen, would have been a sensible lockdown, which would have saved Austria a lot. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, the opposite is the case. The operating engines have been on high speeds for months, but unfortunately the EU is once again driving in the completely wrong direction. At EU level, we are experiencing taboos from debt union, European bonds, EU taxes to the latest concerns. Proposal for a limit on cash and, of course, the associated total monitoring. Finally, the EU can implement all the things it has wanted for so many years. Finally, everything that never went is possible. Under the cover of Corona, under the cover of solidarity and, of course, because of the alleged alternativelessness that is always claimed, the European Union is exploiting this crisis to greatly expand its power and to increase its competences. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the hardest to condemn! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Only in the past National Council session did the Federal Government, together with the other opposition parties and against the votes of the FPÖ, take one of the most far-reaching decisions in connection with the European Union since the introduction of the euro. Far away from the media, the EU's reconstruction fund was decided and thus paves the way for a fatal debt union. 750 billion euros the EU can now accept debt and issue bonds for it. Finally, she did what she wanted since the 2008 financial crisis – Corona thank you! We are now finally paying and liable for the debts of the Member States such as Italy, Spain or Greece, and this, although tens of thousands of people in Austria are still waiting urgently for help and waiting for nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, solidarity is beautiful and good, but what about solidarity with one's own people? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What about solidarity with the next generations you are bleeding out? You don't seem to care about them. 2008 – and this is particularly amazing – the ÖVP was even against it. But she fell by once again. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, I now have to address those who may have been there at the time: Mr Lopatka – Mr Haubner is not here right now – what do you actually say about this development? In 2008 you were against it. Would you have thought it possible for you to change your mind under a turquoise paint and German chancellor? It is not easy at the moment to be a Turkish, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, I know! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] The amazing thing is – I don't know if you still know that – that this was originally a socialist project that you rejected at the time. It was the European Social Democrats who always wanted it – logical, because it is in fact nothing but a massive redistribution from richer countries to poorer countries. That means you officially agree to this redistribution. In the case of poorer countries, we are not talking about countries which are poorer, but we are talking about countries which are so bad, especially because they have already been poor and have not adhered to the fiscal rules. You agree to a redistribution and thus also follow the principle of ad absurdum, which you constantly stressed. Bad economies are worth it – this is a concept that we normally know from the Social Democrats. Redistributing debt, debt and even more debt and away from Austria – we know that from them, but not from you. You should reconsider this approach, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Austria will receive 3.7 billion euros from the Fund. For this we will have to pay around 12 billion euros, if not much more, because we can be used at any time for the repayment of other countries' debts without having to be asked again. I'm just saying, Good night, Austrian Budget Highness! In addition, this decision is clearly EU-law and constitutional. But this does not seem to matter to you anyway, as we can see from the countless legal and constitutional breaks in recent months. Constitutional: This is no longer a category in which you think; the principle of legality: no matter; the interests of Austrian taxpayers: totally no matter what. In such situations, I always wonder where the President of the Federal Republic will stay if he is needed. He is always talking about the beauty of the Constitution, and if it is in real danger, he is hiding in the Hofburg and it is nothing more to be heard of him at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have had our own opinion produced by the renowned constitutional expert and university professor Geistlinger, who has clearly shown this constitutional illegality, and no, Mr Bundeskanzler, these are no legal misgivings, as you always like to express. That's going to be You will have to make up for it sooner or later, and you will have to answer for it. Professor Geistlinger offered both to you, Mr Bundeskanzler, and to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany his expertise and advice on this, but of course you both had no interest in it. Why, if the EU – and, of course, Austria is also on board – is working precisely on the greatest change in EU history, namely on the development of the European Union towards a budgeted state? We do not want that, ladies and gentlemen, nor does it want the Austrian population. You will feel this at the latest at the next choice. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We will, of course, continue to oppose this. We sit down and do not let go, because this debt and transfer union will of course remain permanent, both the German Federal Minister of Finance Scholz, the German Federal Court of Auditors, the EU President of Parliament and the ECB President Lagarde have confirmed this. And so far, everything that has been introduced in times of crisis in the EU has remained permanent – as has the ESM. Above all, we will continue to take care of this – I have said it many times – because getting to debt leads to increasing debt. Ladies and gentlemen, the no-bail-out principle stands for a certain reason in the European economic constitution, and of course it should remain. But now I can say: All the money that is now flowing into these countries will end up pumping, and then only an even larger debt mountain will remain. It must also be remembered that the EU has accumulated an irresponsible debt mountain before the Corona crisis. The ECB has already purchased incredible 4 trillion euros of government bonds, through which for years it has unlawfully carried out monetary state financing precisely of these Marod countries and floods the market with an abundance of money. That is why we have been experiencing a zero interest rate policy for years, through which the savers are expropriated. That is why we do not have a monetary policy margin in the crisis either. With its monetary and financial policy, the EU has made sure that the debt rises into the immeasurable and the euro stands on more than waved legs, and the inflation wave that is still coming will hit us very hard. Mr Bundeskanzler, you and the EU seem to be not enough for citizens to take the money out of their pockets and put them on a debt backpack that will burden them over generations. The EU also wants to know what citizens do with the money that they still have after all these measures. We would already be wrong in the next step of the EU, namely the planned limit of the cash to a maximum of EUR 10 000, which, of course, represents the first step towards a sluggish abolition of cash, which we have been warning against for many years. According to the European Commission's proposal, a cash limit is to be set at EUR 10 000. As a reason for this, the EU Commission calls the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, which is especially absurd, because, in particular, cryptocurrency currencies like Bitcoin are known to be used for such activities. The Commissioner responsible is even more cute, I have to say, namely that the money is too difficult to bear. I think it is great that the Commission is now taking care of the people's back pains. The Federal Government is also advocating the cashless figures, but above all because of Corona and the hygiene. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, all these things are secondary. In fact, it is about something quite different, namely about the glass citizens and about data – nothing else is about it. 10,000 euros may sound like a lot. I can already promise that the 10 000 euros will soon be 500 euros, at some point we will end up at 0 euros, and with that, we will end up with total monitoring, control and manageability of the citizens. The good thing from the EU's point of view is that it can hit two flies with one blow. On the one hand, citizens can be monitored, on the other hand, in addition to the planned introduction of European taxes, it is probably the only way to get out of the debt mountain. One remembers the 2007 financial crisis when the current ECB President Lagarde said that only every saver would have to be expropriated by 10 per cent, so that the debt would be eradicated. This lady is now the ECB President, you have to imagine that!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e9134	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e9150	If there is no more cash, of course there is a simple button to settle the debt. For this reason, the maximum amount of cash will be exceeded, and for this reason there is also the proposal for the introduction of a digital currency, a digital euro and much more. For this reason, we will also make a decision and, by all political means, we will do so, I can promise you now, ladies and gentlemen. To conclude: "Money is marked freedom", already the Russian writer Dostoyevski has in the 19th century. ==References== In any case, as a liberal, we believe that it is neither the state nor a bank concerned with anything we buy when and where. For the FPÖ, the freedom of Austrians, freedom of citizens is the highest principle, and for this reason we will continue to oppose this EU surveillance madness. For this reason we demand for a time - -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e9171	May I ask you to come to a close? You've missed your time a lot.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e9186	Final sentence: Let us protect our cash in our constitution, and finally protect the freedom of our citizens!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e9214	Mr Bundeskanzler is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. The word stands with him. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e9235	Mr President. Dear Karoline Edtstadler! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I may begin with some relief and positive start. [[Abg. Kickl:... express the joy of the corruption people's desire!]] We thank God for a very good development regarding the pandemic. Infection rates continue to decline, the number of vaccines is increasing rapidly, the situation is an ever better. We can say we have the worst behind us. I think I speak there for the whole population – everyone is happy that we can return to normality step by step and finally enjoy our lives again. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We are also good at European comparison. We are among the countries with the lowest rates of infection, we are among the countries that have a good vaccination progress, we are always in the best third for all comparative values and can be satisfied to the extent that we are good as the Republic of Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] On the other hand, however, I would like to mention this too, it is not irrelevant for us to see the situation in other countries, because we are closely involved in both the health situation in the fight against the pandemic and the economic situation, in particular with the other European countries. That is why I am glad that the situation in all European countries is developing positively, that the pandemic can be pushed back step by step and that this, of course, also leads to the economy being re-established and that we finally have a very, very positive development in this area. The economic researchers are constantly correcting their forecasts up, and this year in Austria we expect a growth of around 3.5 percent. These are not just figures, data and facts, but that means that many people can finally return to their jobs, that we can push unemployment back and that people can finally do what is most important in a society, namely earn their own money to care for their families and their loved ones. That's what we're fighting for, and it's nice to see that this is finally happening again, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Your speech, ladies and gentlemen, was, of course, marked by a very critical view of Europe in a way that is also to be expected. [[towards Abg. Riser]] [[Abg. Kickl:... especially on you!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] I would therefore like to stress, first of all, that in many areas we simply have a very strong link with our neighbouring countries and also with all the Member States of the European Union. As the Republic of Austria we earn 6 out of 10 euros in export, our main trading partners are European countries, we are a tourist country, we have 15 percent of our value added in tourism, sports and leisure industry. We know how painful it was to experience the phase in which tourism has stopped, and we are glad that this summer many guests from Germany and other countries will come to us again. To that end, we should be pleased with the positive development that God is currently giving thanks to us in the European Union; we should be pleased about the increase in vaccination, the reduction of infectious counts; and we should have a healthy interest in the fact that the economy is developing well not only in Austria but also in Austria, because the immediate impact on our location and jobs in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Where I have to give you the right: Yeah, it's true, we've invested a lot in the crisis. We have taken a great deal into our hands, we have invested 35 billion euros, spent, promised – no matter how much you want to formulate it. It was a certain overcoming for me, I admit, because you know that, I think, you have always experienced me in cooperation in the coalition: A balanced budget is important to me. I am mistakenly proud of the fact that, together with the liberals in the government, after 60 years of debt policy, we have achieved a budget surplus. It was therefore a hard decision to follow the principle “cost it what it wants” to take money in order to fight the crisis. [[Abg. Lightness: Who has been Minister of Finance in the last 30 years here?]] But I am firmly convinced that it was the right decision. With short-time work, with economic aid and many other investments, we have ensured that jobs are saved, that people do not lose their jobs, that businesses survive this crisis, and we quickly get out of this crisis economically. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I insist that we have gone this way because it was right and necessary, just as it is necessary to do everything we can to develop the budget step by step again in the right direction and to end the debt policy again. [[Abg. Kickl: The wrong pickzettel!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] With regard to the European Union: There were tough negotiations, you followed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I have fought together with the frugal four to ensure that there is no debt union in the European Union. [[Abg. Belakovich: But unfortunately you did not enforce it!]] We have fought to increase our Austrian discount to a massive extent; we have fought to ensure that, when money is spent, it is properly invested – in digitalization, in green transformation, in areas that make us more sustainable and resilient – and I am very glad that we have been so intensive. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Worm]] It was strenuous, it was power consuming, it was associated with a lot of friction, but it was a real, necessary and good fight, and I am very, very satisfied with the result. [[Abg. Belakovich: You don't mean that seriously now, do you?]] We have been involved in the negotiations, we have moved a lot in the right direction – and yes, I am also committed to the fact that it is important in a century crisis like this that money is also taken into consideration at European level for crisis management and the reconstruction of the European economy. [[Abg. Steger:... ECB...!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, As far as cash is concerned, you do not have to worry as long as the People's Party rules and as long as I may be Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes!]] We have a clear position on technical and digital means of payment: This is a good addition, which is accepted by more and more people, and we are glad that we have these possibilities. [[Abg. Kickl: But these are not good prospects for the cash!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] The cash – and I am absolutely with you – is a piece of freedom and in payment and in everyday business as important as other means of payment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will therefore, of course, continue to work for this at European level, all that contradicts it will not be approved, and I invite you to: [[Abg. Steger: Let's write it into the Constitution!]] [[Abg. Kickl: We write it together in the Constitution!]] Take a look at our government programme, even there the Greens and we as the People's Party have jointly anchored it! – Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. [[Abg. Kickl: Let's write it in the Constitution!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e9499	Mr Lopatka is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e9520	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundeskanzler, thank you first for the clarifications and second for the optimistic outlook. That's quite positive – right! It is the opposite of what this group once again offers in the current hour of Europe by means of this FPÖ request. It's once again something from the kickl-suddle kitchen, I can only say. What's the FPÖ doing? – Half-truths, incorrect claims to continue to insure the population that has been really burdened by Corona in recent months. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Steger.]] It's a shame you don't remember! In her speech, colleague Steger, nothing constructive was there, absolutely nothing, not a word of death. [[Abg. Steger: You have to first...!]] The Federal Chancellor referred to it: What this government has done to help people was more than other governments have done. Of course, we are in solidarity with our people, of course! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] They say: Free citizens instead of EU compulsion! [[Abg. Matznetter: The government can't do it!]] I'll tell you: This European Union has brought people more personal freedoms than they have ever had before. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] – Yes, you laugh, but you are opposed if there is a free choice of residence when there is free movement of persons. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This is bothering you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. However, these freedoms have brought the European Union: Freedom of religion, freedom of assembly, freedom of expression, everything secured in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. [[Call the FPÖ: Your speeches were already better!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] If these freedoms are at risk where, then at sister parties of you, as in Poland. [[Abg. Kickl: Really! For God's sake!]] I'll write this to you in your master book. Yeah, that's it! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Kassinger:... a lawyer! State Law 1867...!]] Not the European Union is threatening fundamental rights, not we, these are you and your sister parties with whom you are in a political group. [[Abg. Kickl: You've brought it so far that we need a corruption people's desire in our country! You don't need...!]] – Yes, Mr Kickl, you already told us in 2008 that the end of the euro has come. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, eh!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] What you said was completely wrong. In my last speech, you have called in here – I quote now, you can read it in the protocols – there is only a “artificial life extension” for the euro – absolutely wrong! The euro has proved itself in the crisis. We learned from the debt crisis in 2008. The euro is now better placed than ever before. [[Abg. Steger: You don't believe that!]] It's true, even if you don't want to hear it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] People don't need to be afraid when it comes to their cash. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] The Federal Chancellor has referred to it, the Minister of Finance has said it on the day the Commissioner responsible - - yes, I tell you, look at it: [[Abg. Kickl: Let's write it in the Constitution! Mr Lopatka, let us write it in the Constitution! Are you so brave?]] In 2016, as a clubman, I made the request that we write it in the Constitution. [[Abg. Belarusian: False!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] The SPÖ was our coalition partner at the time, Mr Leichtfried is already here, perhaps he can explain to me why she did not go along. [[Abg. Kickl: This will be a longer confession on Sunday!]] The SPÖ made it clear at the time: We are also in favour of the cash being protected, but we believe that we do not need constitutional security. I saw it differently. [[Call at the FPÖ:Why?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] Why? If we had it in the Constitution, our ministers, who are always in the government, would be bound to protect the cash. At European level – and this has been clarified by National Bank President Novotny at the time – the cash can only be abolished if there is unanimity. The Federal Chancellor said that you didn't want to hear it. [[Abg. Steger: He already said a lot!]] With Austria, there is no such vote with the result that the cash is history. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: There are no increases in contributions either, he has promised! Also broken!]] Look, I'll tell you one thing: You're talking about debt union. We – the Chancellor has also mentioned it – have done the right thing for us, for Austria itself – and all, whether in the USA, or in Europe – in this Corona crisis, I think I have done what I would never think was right to make debt, in order to help people to actually bring the necessary solidarity to life. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] But what the European Union is doing is a unique act, which is not an entry into the debt union – you do not want to hear that. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Kickl: Lopatka as an intrusion of debt socialism! Great!]] I very much hope that the Commission will be able to achieve more with the money than has been the case with cohesion funds so far, in terms of digitalisation as regards the environment – that is where we need the money. The FPÖ is one of the cases, and I conclude by saying: From the first day – Kickl said that Haider was his great model – you never knew exactly whether you want Austria to be in this Union, yes or no. You never answered that clearly. You can remember your predecessor, H.-C. Strache? – Perhaps you supported him at the time in finding opinions. ==References== "If the European Union is not prepared to stop its mistakes, it will no longer be possible to watch. Then, of course, an exit or an auxit with a referendum in Austria is possible.” You already know your absolutely unsuccessful Vienna partyobmann, are you? - Yeah, you know him, all right. [[Abg. Machnetter: Blümel!]] In his distress last year, Dominik Nepp, because he saw how he was getting closer to the abyss, said that we should again discuss an EU exit in Austria. You have a constant in your European policy, which is your disturbed relationship with the European Union. [[Abg. Kickl: Our constant is called red and white red!]] This is the big difference with all the political groups in the House, because they have different approaches, but there is constructive cooperation for a positive development of the European Union. [[Abg. Kickl: He was better too!]] You're gonna sit here alone. - Shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e9876	Mr Klubobmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The word stands with him. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e9908	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! If you could sum up the Federal Chancellor's speech, I would say, it goes like this: In Austria milk and honey flow, all are fine, and that is the sole merit of the ÖVP. [[Abg. That's right!]] – Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, it is not. We still have hundreds of thousands of unemployed in Austria, we have people who fear their existence, we have people who have lost their businesses, we have people who cannot sleep at night because they can no longer pay their debts. We have the biggest economic crisis since 1945, and there is nothing nice to talk about, Federal Chancellor! This has caused the ÖVP in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Especially now, when we come to the European level, I really need something that I really miss from you. Now you've been standing back and you've been saying: Yes, we are the best, we are the best there, we are world champions at all!, although it is not true, for example, how to see the green pass. Mr. Federal Chancellor, what is it? – That should have been true for a long time, he would have already been introduced. Where's the green pass now? What about the vaccines? - They don't get a green pass. Was that the plan, Mr. Federal Chancellor? There you can see the difference between show and reality. Unfortunately, the show always prevails with you, and that is certainly not good for the people in the country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But what I actually wanted to say is: European policy does not always mean to stand up and say: We are the best and all the others are not interested!, no, European policy is to stick together, stand together, stand up for the others, take care of the others. This is really European policy, ladies and gentlemen. If something is going on in Austrian European policy, it is precisely that: to stand up for others and not to be selfish. However, this is not only a matter of European policy, Mr Kurz, but also of a general nature. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What the country really needs – the United States has lived it – is an investment offensive. Joe Biden has shown how to do it, has shown how much to invest so that a country can be brought forward. [[Abg. Steger: They don't have any corona measures!]] In Austria, it would be EUR 40 billion that would be necessary to invest EUR 40 billion in order to strengthen the economy in order to secure jobs in order to bring our country forward, but nothing of this can be seen, Federal Chancellor. What you see are show press conferences on the screen. What would have been asked for our country would be honest work, and I miss it in you at Austrian and European level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If there is a chance to join Austria at European level – and this is particularly disappointing, Federal Chancellor! Then don't do it. Then just don't do it. Who, besides you and Mr Kocher, understands that we cannot be a European minimum wage? Who understands this, ladies and gentlemen? - No one understands. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are currently experiencing what it means that there are so large wage differences in the European Union. [[Abg. Ottenschlager:... to replace social partners?]] [[Abg. Pfurtscheller:... Social partners!]] What about ATB? Why have they migrated from the Upper Styria to a country where cheaper production can be produced? What about MAN? – The same problem! If there is no uniform wage level in Europe, if there is not even a uniform wage level, if one does not even start to talk about minimum wages, that means that jobs disappear from Austria, that poverty comes to Austria and that more and more people in Austria have to worry about their existence. [[Abg. Salzmann: What about the social partners?]] [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: We have a minimum wage!]] This is the result of your policy, Mr Kurz, and we are certainly opposed to that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Kurz, European policy is about cohesion and not about mutual play. It's not about big announcements, it's about putting it into practice. Mr Kurz, if you look at your previous European policy, you can see one thing: The show policy, which no longer works in Austria, has failed in the harsh reality – in Europe and in Austria – and the people in our country suffer, Mr. Federal Chancellor. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e10047	Mr Mayer, Member of the European Parliament. - Please, the word is with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e10068	Mr President. Appreciate High House! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I am pleased to be with you again today and to hold a lively European debate with you – in which, Federal Chancellor: This is, again, a typical fint that the ÖVP likes to make by saying that we are European-critical. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think we are European-critical. On the contrary, we love Europe. To whom we are critical, this is the European Union, and these are the developments it is currently taking. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The free citizen, ladies and gentlemen, was once. Freedom of travel, ladies and gentlemen, as we have heard from Mr Lopatka today, is one of the fundamental pillars of this European Union, which was once. I don't know how much you are moving, of course that brings the mandate with us. I landed in Vienna yesterday and had to be controlled. I thought these controls were more or less abolished, there were only more samples. Then I have a form – i.e. I haven't seen anything like that yet, this form is like a sign-citizen-like form – presented with twenty sub-points; for example, if I've been vaccinated or with this mentioned 3G. So there's no one to know. In addition, this is something – and it has really bothered me – from which no one could have imagined two years ago that in the European Union, where we hold travel freedom so high, it is asked by people and with whom we cannot live. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] The only thing that is still free in this European Union is more or less freight. He's still allowed to move freely, which has always worked. So it is nothing with these announced reliefs here in the country or for travel throughout Europe. The opposite is the case. Vice Chancellor Kogler of the Greens then stands down and announces: The delay shall be extended to 23h. – Oh happy citizen! In order for Mr Kogler to sit in the inn and look at the European Championship, it will be extended to 23 o'clock. So that's already a chozpe of the special kind that's being taken to the citizen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The return to normality – where is it, Mr. Federal Chancellor? Do you find it normal that these plexiglass panes are placed here? Do you find it normal that we still have to walk through the area – you have just announced it? – So I don’t find that normal, normality is still far away. I think that in 1984 Orwell did not even dream of such a restriction on freedom. This is something that, as a lawyer, is particularly moving me – here in Austria, broken by an Austrian federal government on purpose – which is intentional, sustainable and over and over again. The sadness of this is also: Most of the media world goes by completely, which doesn't even care about it. That's where you want to call: Hans Kelsen – author of the Austrian federal constitution – see how! He'd turn around in the grave if he'd experience it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This wonderful constitution, created by Kelsen to protect the citizens from an overpowering state, is de facto put out of force by you. Then it is clear that we can then demand – Mr Lopatka has said that, I believe, – the anchoring of cash traffic in the Constitution. [[Abg. Lopatka nick]] I know that's what you're trying to do, because you don't respect the Constitution any more. [[Call the ÖVP:Na na!]] The journey is now heading in a completely different direction. Now we come to this green pass, which is always held so high: To this day, he doesn't exist, and I'm wondering: What is the added value of this green pass? – So I can't see him, because if you're vaccinated, you can still infect people. So all of this has neither hand nor foot. Furthermore, the limitation of cash, which wants to control every slightest movement of people, is completely useless, because criminal organizations are using completely different ways to bring their money into the system. The data crack is getting bigger and bigger, and we can no longer estimate the extent of this crack. Where are the Greens – because Mr Reimon is sitting there and is already preparing – where are the Greens who used to praise data protection as the most important? – The Greens are in the middle of the fences of the citizens in Austria and Europe. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Estimated colleagues, the glass man is long-term reality in 2021, and it goes further. As a liberal, you can only say: We can't and won't do it that way. That's not the freedom we mean. 1848. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e10133	Next word reported: Mr Michel Reimon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e10154	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! To be honest, the only interesting thing about this discussion is the abolition of cash and how the FPÖ deals with it. It is absolutely wrong for the European Commission to introduce a limit on cash in the Union, because in 22 of the 26 Member States, there are already some. In Belgium, for example, cash is limited to EUR 3 000. In Italy it is limited to 2 999.99 euros, and if you pay this 1 cent you pay in Belgium, in Italy, you make yourself punishable. Have fun if you do not know this as an Austrian citizen! In Germany it is 10 000 euros, but you must register it if you spend more than 10 000 euros. In France it is 1 000 euros, but the seller may refuse to accept more than 50 notes. In Estonia, you will be fined if there are more than 50 bills of money. – Have fun, colleague Mayer, if you are in Estonia and don’t know that and put 51 notes on the table there! They make themselves punishable and don't know. [[Abg. Worm: What is the message? The message!]] The whole is a single national disaster and a patch of national regulations that are abolished. [[Abg. Worm: What is the message? The message!]] [[Abg. Steger:... Fleckerlteppich!]] That's what it looks like. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] The whole thing is a bureaucratic insanity in the European Union and is unified. Setting a scheme to 10 000 euros is highly reasonable – once as the very first. [[Abg. Steger: Maximal, is the regulation!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: That's stupid!]] - Wait, wait! I now come to the point why I find this from the FPÖ so exciting. They then argue with data protection and anonymity. A payment, a cash payment is only anonymous if you have no contract and no paper at the same time; even if you pay 250 000 euros in cash. At the moment when you conclude a purchase contract for an apartment where you have a purchase contract, this is not anonymous. At the moment you're in the base book, it's not anonymous. The moment you buy a car and log in the car, it's not anonymous. Even if you only sign a guarantee contract, it is not anonymous. Now I'm interested in: Which FPÖ member makes contracts or transactions with 10 000 euros in cash without signing a wipe or contract? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What kind of business do you have to hide? Shows once: Which one of you took 10,000 euros in cash last year without signing a contract? [[Abg. Worm: Hahaha!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] - What for? - Okay. [[Abg. Amesbauer: That's none of your business!]] Is there a tax declaration? [[Abg. Deimek:... at least not with you!]] Is there - - Please ask for the protocol: Mr Amesbauer says on record that last year he put in 10 000 euros without mentioning it. I would like to thank the transparency statement of last year. – That was a stupid show now, I tell you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If not, a question: Did you do a business where you took 10,000 euros? – There is only one reason why you are against this restriction of cash, dear liberties, and that is because it is a black money deal to be able to put in these 10,000 euros without a contract. This is about protecting black money. You're still the oligarch party, still. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] Herbert Kickl, who has made his right hand for Mr. Strache for 20 years, always sits in the Oligarch party fixed and at the front, and now still, as party leader, still protects the Black Money Mafia. We had the case in Salzburg last week that 3.5 million euros of black money, un taxed cash, were found. [[Abg. Kickl: You're not used to anything else!]] These are the cases that protect you. You do not protect the small minimum earners, for which 300, 400 euros are already a lot of cash, but thus you protect the black money mafia. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] You thus protect the Mafiaclans, that's all, and you're even buying to protect the financing of terror. You're protecting terrorist financing, because it's also about cash. So important is that you protect the black money mafia. That's the only thing the FPÖ is interested in. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You are still the Mafia -, ah, the supporters of those who put in the black money. That's the only thing. Furthermore, as far as data protection is concerned [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riser]] The European Union is considering the introduction of a digital euro, and this is a great data protection project. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] You know why? – Because you already have a lot of digital transfers in the European Union. Your bank knows every cent you transfer. Amazon, when you buy there, everything sees. - Wurst. If you book a hotel, nothing is data protected. [[Intervocations of Deputies Kickl and Worm.]] A digital euro could do this as in cryptocurrencies: You can charge 300 euros on your phone, transfer someone else, and it is not comprehensible how these 300 euros go around. The only thing is: If you lose your cell phone, the money's gone, like cash. You can't get a better data protection at a digital level than you do, because then you can't be monitored. However, you need to understand a technology that is a bit more modern than anything produced in 1945. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] That's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e10375	Next came the Member of the European Parliament, Mrs Claudia Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e10396	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The European Reconstruction Fund, this agreement is indeed the largest economic package in European history, a historic moment for European solidarity. I think it is also a symbol of a united Europe and it is also a sign against cynicism, which often prevails when we talk about what Europe can do and what it cannot do. But there is already a comment in the direction of FPÖ or towards Petra Steger Allowed. You're always the only one who comes from you: No, no, no. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] – You have managed to impose this intellectual gymnastics, to criticize in the same sentence that there is the European reconstruction package, and at the same time to criticize the fact that businesses are being too little help. [[New call of the abg. Steger.]] I'm also sure you would have stood here without a reconstruction package next year and said: Where is Europe? Why didn't you do anything? – This is precisely the policy of the FPÖ, always only: No, no, no. – It’s never about how you can really change something, really help people, or really change Europe for the better. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] You have nothing else in the program. That's all, that's all! You criticize the fact that at this moment money is being taken from the capital market to get Europe out of the crisis, and at the same time you are brutally outraged by the fact that nothing is being done. - That's the FPÖ again. It's always about beating political change out of something that's not there at all. [[Abg. Steger: That's not true at all!]] Actually, it's remarkable: To do something out of nothing is almost magical, as the FPÖ has always explained this with its policy on the subject of Europe. No one can really help you in this question, but something is quite clear: Europe will not be further developed with you and your whole friends on this continent. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] With the FPÖ, with the rights in Europe, we are catapulted into the past. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] Everyone – really everyone! – which normally runs through life without a shadow, has been perfectly clear that Europe will come out of the crisis together, and also all those who have learned something from dealing with the last economic crisis have been aware that there will be a need for a strong investment act. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riser]] Without this initiative by France and Germany, I do not think anyone would have the courage to really say in what direction we should go. Austria is certainly not due to this because we – the official Austria, also represented by the Federal Chancellor – were on the holding side and said: Well, now we're looking at it. Geiz's hot, instead of: Whatever it takes! and it was rather small-minded instead of far-sighted than we debated about it last year, in fact at about the same time. [[MEP Mayer: What are you doing?]] [[Abg. Kickl: Farsighted!]] What's important is - - - – Okay, today it's really about who sees how far, but obviously it's clear again and again: [[Abg. Kickl: Well, it's true: if someone is far-sighted, he needs glasses!]] At the FPÖ the whole thing stops here. [[keeping a hand close to the eyes]] Unlike most international experts, who had expressed themselves clearly in all relevant media, which would be necessary for a powerful recovery in their opinion, the minds of the ÖVP were also quite clearly agreed that one would rather think small. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riser]] Those who believe that Austria alone would have come out of the crisis will really live on another planet, and those who believe that we are better if other Europeans are still worse, have simply not understood the basics at all. [[Abg. Obernoster: But you are, aren't you?]] The European Union is our greatest happiness, but it is also a fate that we share together. We know that it is also important for Austrian workers and companies in this country that it is good for Italians, we know that it is important for all of us, as is the case for all of us – and the European reconstruction package is just there to ensure that we go into the future together and have a good future that we will continue to work on European prosperity. That this is not seen by all here is really tragic, but you can only be really glad that you are no longer in the decision-making functions to be able to determine that. [[towards FPÖ]] [[Call: Thank God, money]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e10546	Next came Mr Wolfgang Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e10567	Government Agreement 2020 to 2024. Commitment to the receipt of the cash under the current money laundering provisions. [[The speaker put forward a paper entitled ‘Government 2020 – 2024; commitment to the preservation of cash under the current money laundering regulations; page 11’ on the speaker’s desk.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Chancellor In short, the guarantee is that in the European Union, where the principle of unanimity exists, the cash cannot be abolished. [[Call:... to be abolished]] You can rely on that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] The cash is the fastest and most commonly used means of payment for small amounts. The cash is also the cheapest means of payment for small amounts. The cash can be used equally by all people, whether you have an account or not. The cash facilitates you to have an overview of whether you already have enough expenditure or whether you have enough resources available. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] The cash is a means of payment and value storage to be able to escape banks there and there, if you want to put a balance on the side. And above all, the cash is falsifying and also fairly safe. That is why, ladies and gentlemen – and now has the surprise! –, Mr Lopatka has not only set the initiative in 2016 to secure the cash with us in accordance with the law if he has not received any commitment from the SPÖ. [[Abg. Belakovich: That's not true at all!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, but against what?]] – Yes, Mrs Belakovich! Mr Kickl, you seem to have missed the fact that you, Mr Kickl, were not yet in charge of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Kickl: Who do you want to secure it against? Who do you want to secure it against? ... apparently threatened, isn't it?]] At that time, under your predecessor, Mr Hofer has very probably been in favour of the cash in the Constitution, and I have made a request together with colleagues Harald Stefan, your Constitutional Spokesman, ladies and gentlemen [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riser]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Kickl]] ==References== September 2019 we made a joint request – together! They want to distance themselves from it today. I don't understand you anymore. You do not have to deny colleagues Hofer so much that you even forget your own request! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In fact, however, the excitement is no longer going towards the FPÖ, but - - Now you are mastering yourself! [[Abg. Kickl: The time off has hurt you, Mr. Gerstl!]] I know this is difficult for you, since you now have a new function – you have to look at it in particular – but it was just so that we had a common time and made a common request. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] But if you left this joint request, that was the SPÖ – that was the SPÖ! I remember exactly: ==References== The SPÖ Constitutional Officer Wittmann also agreed on September 2019 that we should anchor the cash in the Constitution. And then what happened? – Then, colleague Leichtfried, who is now no longer in the hall, has turned everything around in the party, and the SPÖ has withdrawn its promise that the cash will come into the Constitution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that we don't have this today is the SPÖ's fault, because the FPÖ was still for it at the time – today it is obviously not anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e10739	Mrs Katharina Kucharovich's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e10764	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! You know that. Cash remains. That's why your spin is wrong in the title of your current hour and in your explanations. You know you're working with a wrong spin here. The cash remains. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But let's talk about the money! In our opinion, it would be urgent to talk about the responses to the health crisis, the economic crisis, the social crisis. We need to get out of the social crisis, and this should also be the main objective of the Federal Government, at Austrian level, but of course also at Community level at EU level. Who pays for the crisis, dear Federal Government? Who? – We hear from you, if at all, only fatal proposals. But we will not allow those who have already already been hit by the health crisis to pay for it now – certainly not with us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ideas that came from the environment of the ÖVP, inconceivable ideas – reducing emergency aid, reducing unemployment benefit – are quite clear no-gos. Those who don't have anything anymore to take away anything else is very superfluous, especially in the privileged roles in which we are stuck. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As a social democracy, we demand exactly the opposite. For more than a year, we have been using vehement – and we will not become silent either – to increase unemployment benefit. They defend themselves with their hands and feet, which is really incredible when you think about people and their families fighting for their lives. We must finally become active there – but not with one-time payments made as a federal government, but with legal claims, and therefore: Get up with the unemployment allowance! Children, women and men must be able to rely on it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We really ask you to do something at last to defend a strong social state in the European Union. Above all, we also need a confession from your side that you are in favour of this social state, even if it concerns minimum European wages, because it is truly a joke that you, as the Federal Government, are quite clear about it. Do something about tax justice, both in Austria and at European level! Ladies and gentlemen, it is now high time for a real solidarity contribution from the super-rich – now! We do not hear anything about it from you – neither on the financial transaction tax nor on corporate taxation in any European bodies. But all this is more than overdue! Quite honest: Where is your real commitment to a real digital tax for online giants who have benefited from the crisis in most cases? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They do exactly the opposite: They even postpone the debate at European level on digital taxation, and this is a blow to those people in Austria, some 400 000 in the number who are either unemployed or in training programmes. Where is your use, by the way, if millionaires are already offering the offer to pay inheritance and gift taxes? They really invite us to accept this. I don't hear from you at all, and that's really, really annoyed. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time, as has been said, to ask for a real solidarity contribution from the super-richs. It's urgent now. However, I would like to address another issue, the EU recovery fund. Austria has made up of 3,5 billion euros for investment, for projects, for the creation of new jobs, for digitisation, for the fight against the climate crisis. What did you do? – You have lost the chance, you have not even attacked the engine, you have submitted old projects and thus have no new jobs on your feet. This is extremely problematic. We expect ourselves, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to take real steps out of the crisis, nationally and Europeanly, and not a competition within Europe and not at all a save on noise, but rather an investment in noise – that is urgently needed! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is now time to ensure a strong social Europe, because the Union would be there. So: Get up with the unemployment allowance, with new jobs, up with the minimum wages and here with the real solidarity contribution of the super-rich! Finally, because I think it is very important personally and politically, because there has been nothing there for years: With an honest and genuine human rights union that does not abandon and ignore children, women and men in inhumane camps in the middle of Europe! Finally do something for it, get these people out, save these and let them help! We have room in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e10876	Next speaker: Mr Axel Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e10897	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Yes, I am a little confused – therefore, because what you, Federal Chancellor, are saying to the Austrian Parliament and to Austrian citizens, and what you are actually implementing at European level, which somehow does not fit in at all. It is clear and well-known that the SPÖ and also NEOS – colleague Gamon has already documented it – are quite clearly for a political union, for a European central state et cetera. At the ÖVP, it is so that in Austria, even by you, this is always presented in this way: We do not want a debt union, and that is not a debt union! – Of course, this is a debt union if one accepts 750 billion euros of common debt and has liability provisions that provide for Austria to jump in in the event that others cannot pay. What's the other thing than a debt union? If you are so satisfied with the outcome of the negotiations, which looks like we are getting 3.7 billion euros and have to pay back 12 billion euros now, I do not know what should be so great about this negotiation result. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Draghi can be quite satisfied with the outcome of the negotiations. This is already being transferred to the 190 billion euros, immediately from the European Union. So it's great that we finance Italy. The same applies to the statement: We do not want EU taxes! – Why vote Do you then agree with the own resources system, which de facto means EU taxes? Or: We want a more stringent migration policy! – Why push Are you, then, the EU-Migration Pact, which is the opposite of a more stringent migration policy? We want more subsidiarity! – Why support You then all the movements that are increasingly moving the competences towards Brussels towards the European Union? So I do not know which side you are actually on – on the side of the Schäubles, the Merkels, the Macrons, the Leyens, so European centralists, who are quite clearly saying that they want a European central state with a monetary policy, tax policy, social policy, migration policy? But the whole thing has to be thought: This also means the end of independent national states in Europe. That's what they want, we don't want it. We want a self-confident, independent, competent state of Austria, alongside many other national states in Europe, whose government is the first to represent the interests of its citizens – of course embedded in a European economic union. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] But this is a little different from a political Union, a European superstate. We have always been in favour of a European Economic Union with free trade et cetera within the European countries, which is quite clear. However, this is a bit different from a political Union that is now – in fact since 1992, since the Maastricht Treaty, we have been a bit wrong at European level – heading full towards a European central state. We don't want that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The question is: What do you want? What does the ÖVP want? In the case of SPÖ, NEOS and Greens, it is clear that this is not clear at the ÖVP. Mr Karas is more consistent and more coherent, and this is clear. It also speaks in Austria as it always does in Brussels, but I do not know you and the ÖVP. Finally, a word on the accusation to the liberals that we are not Europeans, or whatever: We are critical of the European Union and the development of the European Union towards the central state. We don't want that! Of course, we are open to an economic union, to a large economic area, no question at all. We are glowing Europeans when it comes to preserving European diversity, the diversity of states, the nation states. We are glowing Europeans on the issue of migration when it comes to representing the interests of locals, and of course we are glowing Europeans as far as the European economy is concerned. This creates prosperity and jobs. However, what is going on, among other things, with this Green Deal of your party friend from the Leyen, is anything but the strengthening of the European economy, but, I would say, a conscious attack, especially on the European automotive industry with thousands, hundreds of thousands, millions of jobs. Then we'll see how this will actually develop. We have no good feeling at all as to the whole European climate policy, which is obviously fully supported by your side. There is now the Renewable Development Act, we know that the Climate Protection Act is in advance, and there are atrocities in it. We will look at this closely in the next few months, in particular your behaviour as the ÖVP economic party in this context.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e10986	European Parliamentary Thomas Waitzzu is next reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e11015	Estimated President! Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Estimated Members and especially valued FPÖ! Your alleged debt union, which you complain here, what is it about? – It is about the fact that, in the face of the greatest crisis since the end of the Second World War, we have to vote together, a historic event, all European states are together to re-establish our economy in the European Union. This is an instrument of solidarity. – I know that solidarity is not necessarily a term with the You can start a lot of crazy things, but I want to venture a statement: Solidarity means that, even if among your predecessors and also predecessors in a federal country of Austria, in Carinthia, 8,000 million euros are reduced via the Hypo Alpe-Adria, Austria is together, even the taxpayers are together in order not to abandon the citizens of Carinthia – not to fail. [[Abg. Kassinger: This is a total nonsense,...!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Members of the House of Representatives, Kassager and Steger.]] That is what one understands in solidarity! Now we are talking about the relationship with those EU Member States that are not as great as we are economically. Are you aware that Austria is an export nation? [[Abg. Kickl: Oh, that's it! We'll buy it ourselves now! That's it! Well, we're buying it ourselves now!]] Are you aware that we earn 30 percent of our gross domestic product with exports? I call you a few numbers to the countries you like to go to: Italy: 10 percent of our exports, Hungary: 5 percent of our exports, Poland: 5 percent of our exports. A total of 20 percent of our exports go to these countries alone. Do you not believe that it makes sense to support the economy and to keep it from collapsing, so that the citizens in these countries also have the money to buy Austrian products? This is about thousands of jobs in Austria! They obviously don't care about you. [[Abg. Kickl: Switzerland is just before the end! Switzerland is just before the state bankruptcy!]] However, let me come to another issue that I think is really much more exciting at the moment – because I usually make speeches in the European Parliament on facts, on realities and not, in my opinion, on the idea of a supposedly planned abolition of cash. [[Abg. Belakovich: That's crazy!]] Let me tell you: So far, there is neither a legislative project nor an own-initiative report, nor has the European Commission ever claimed that it wants to abolish the cash. It's a chimary drawing you into the air here! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] I don't know who's taking this from you at all. But I can calm you down: I'm a friend of cash. I also do not want a financial service provider to cut a bit in every small payment I make, and I also do not want the financial service provider, or anyone, to sell my data and to give me personalized advertising. [[Call the ÖVP:Bravo!]] I agree that cash as a means of payment is essential, but you know, in general, citizens of this country do not have 10 000 euros as pocket money in the jacket. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] As a rule, citizens do not have the problem of somehow getting into trouble with limiting cash payments, because we usually tax the money we earn properly – and I apologize, but: [[Congratulation with the Greens]] It is not my group that is suspected of driving around in the car with bags full of cash or hiding any gold treasures in Alpine pensions. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Kickl]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I don't know, maybe hide You'll also have a bag full of cash that you want to get rid of. I do not understand at all why you are in favour of this, although you are supposed to want the exact opposite. Who has such amounts of cash with which he would like to pay? [[Abg. Martin Graf: The ÖVP!]] –Mafiados, arms smugglers, people smugglers, drug dealers or, I don’t know, maybe your friends, the Russian oligarchs who then want to buy a 40 000 euro rolex on the Carinthian street with cash. Is that the ones you defend, or are they those who want to put the black money in their pockets and go shopping with it? [[Abg. Kickl: You already have foam shape mouth!]] It is about limiting cash payments to 10 000 euros! I do not know how far you are from the reality of citizens, whether you still know how much money is 10 000 euros for a normal person in that country. [[Abg. Kickl: I know that better than you do!]] I can't possibly understand what you're doing here. They lead the population astray. They draw an image in the air that has no relation to reality. Shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e11210	Mrs Karin Doppelbauer's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e11232	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! It's about Europe. It is a beautiful topic, and I would really like to make this speech very positive now, because I believe that really big, beautiful things are on the way. But I would also like to say quite clearly, in advance: We NEOS are not friends of a debt union – we do not support that – but what is happening now is something else. It is not about entering a general debt union, as FPÖ is constantly collaborating, but about time and height of joint measures to combat pandemic consequences and to strengthen the entire European economy – and that is good and right. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Let us perhaps talk a little about Europe! Europe is one of the most important things: It's freedom. It's personal freedom. It is a question of being able to settle in countries of the European Union. We can work there, we can start companies. We can pay there with the bank card, we have a strong European currency. It is of course also an economic freedom. I am referring to the common internal market and the possibilities that have been created for Austria, because in the past, I believe that almost no other country like Austria has benefited from this common European internal market, and this is also a very, very important point that I would like to highlight. And yes, against all these freedoms there have been and of course there have always been resistances, but we also owe this European Union to the fact that, as Austria, we have not sunk into insignificance, ladies and gentlemen. Above all, we have a vote on economic policy and also on geopolitical issues – a vote which the European Union gives us and which we would otherwise not have. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Let me also say: It is not only about freedom – which is not only being attacked outside the European Union, but also partly by our neighbouring countries – but also about liberal democracy, and it is also about the rule of law – and this makes our Europe so great and so unique. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] And yes, this Europe is developing right now, and yes, the Commission is currently recording money on the capital market, money to be made available to the Member States in the form of loans and grants, and, in return, the Member States have to present plans for national reform plans in order to reach these funds. It is not going to work with the casting pot, but it will help those countries that have perhaps started worse than other countries, because there are other conditions, and which are likely to recover more slowly – and indeed, it is a solidarity and a balancing initiative by the European Union. Now, of course, you can say that you don't want to do that – all right, you can be different – but in the end you have to think a step further, because: Who benefits from it? – Everyone benefits from it! Europe as a whole benefits from this, especially small economies such as Austria, which is so closely interconnected with the neighbouring countries by export. – So: Everything good and done right! A next point, which has still not been mentioned so much today: the management of the crisis over this initiative Next Gen. It's about other things, too. It also helps the European economy to transform itself into a sustainable, green economy, into an economy that is being dealt with scientifically and which, of course, is much more digital. These are all things that we have really missed in Europe over the past few years. We have the opportunity to take a big step forward. Of course, we would have liked – and now I come to the Austrian construction plan – that a little more ambitious and innovative is being done, because what has happened – and that is the result of the very short-term development of these national plans, which have been submitted at the time, is that simple existing programmes have been taken, and they have been further developed. Now it's not all bad – that's right – but of course you haven't been able to really go into innovative, new techniques and create a big boost again. Especially in digitization and education, there would have been a lot of air up there. I am also delighted to see how the European Commission will ultimately assess the Austrian plan, because for all Member States – and this is true and important – the money should not simply be used to stop budget holes. Perhaps one last thought, because this has not been adopted here in the National Council for too long now: This is what I am talking about the EU's own resources decision, and I think it is a very important instrument. We insist that the EU should have its own financing option. Why? – It is not only about the need to pay off the debt – that is one point, and that is right and important – but it is mainly about in Which direction is thought. These own resources categories, which are to be presented by the beginning of 2026, include, for example, a CO2-limit compensation system – a very, very important requirement – a European digital levy that we need – we will not solve in Austria alone – and also a revised EU emission trading system. These are all very, very important steps. For Europe and for us NEOS, this is good news today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e11323	The next item is the report by European Parliamentary Angelika Winzig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e11344	Madam President. Dear Mrs Ministra! Federal Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Since I am the only Austrian Members, who are full members of both the Budget and the Budgetary Control Committee, I now see it as my task to redeem you from the half-knowledge and half-truths of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Worm: Please! ...!]] Obviously, much has not yet arrived in the small world of FPÖ, namely that we have a global pandemic that affects 190 countries with 177 million people infected so far and 3.8 million dead. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Of course, such a global exceptional situation also requires financial measures to overcome this crisis quickly on the one hand and on the other hand to be prepared for future crises and to become more independent. That is why we have already put in place a comprehensive package last year, on the one hand with the seven-year financial framework for a budget of 155 billion euros per year. This corresponds roughly to the Austrian general government budget. Then there is the Next Generation EU programme, the Resilience Programme with grants of 390 billion euros and loans of 360 billion euros. The new own resources for refinancing have already been mentioned. The special feature was the conditionality of the rule of law and the disbursement of the financial resources to the Member States. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] We should like to thank our budget Commissioner Gio Hahn, who has put the package on his feet very professionally and, above all, in his well-known quiet manner. That was really unique. It is only if all the countries in Europe are doing well that Austria is doing well, and we can play in the concert of the World Powers, indicate the tone and end dependencies for the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I should also like to thank you, Mr Bundeskanzler, for your critical, constructive EU access. This is not always convenient for some countries. That is good, however, because you show the weaknesses and demand changes. This has succeeded in the composition of the reconstruction fund, because I also believe that 750 billion euros of direct grants are also not responsible to our taxpayers. However, this has also been achieved for you especially in the towing vaccine supply. Astra Zeneca would still dance us on the nose today if you had not exerted appropriate pressure. [[Abg. Belakovich: A bravorous performance of the chancellor!]] Last day we already delivered 6.5 million vaccines from this EU package. We only owe the freedom gained with it to you, Mr. Federal Chancellor – thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] While we were working on solutions, you, Mr Kickl, walked with your identity friends. That must have been nice, too. Finally, I can promise you one more thing: that in the European Parliament's Budgetary Control Committee, in cooperation with the Commission, with Olaf, with the European Public Prosecutor's Office and also with the European Court of Auditors, we will do everything we can to control the use of funds carefully, to show abusive use and that the waste of tax money has no chance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger]] However, we also ensure in the Committee on Budgets that the financial resources are not used to catch up on individual Member States in the past, but only flow into defined future areas such as research, innovation and digitisation, transformation and climate protection. Because our submitted Resilience Package has already been addressed: This has already been greatly praised at EU level, and I also think it is an excellent package. It is not old projects that are pictured, but future-looking projects that continue to make our country fit for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e11431	Members of the European Parliament are now speaking Bettina Vollah. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e11453	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Again, so that it's really clear to everyone: No, no one wants to abolish the cash, neither the Commission nor the Council nor Parliament. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Krisper.]] What was actually proposed to fight money laundering – and that was already correct – was: Those who want to import more than 10 000 euros into the EU or export it from the EU should be monitored. If the speed is controlled on the motorway, the speed will not be abolished either. [[Abg. Kickl: Nobody wanted to build a wall!]] Finally, it remains a political question, which is more important: freedom for few, even from the point of view of normal citizens, to be able to carry out astronomically high payments in cash, or the security of all that criminal activities are difficult. We stand for second. Money laundering, terrorist financing, corruption must be completely combated, and this includes the control of dubious cash transactions, but it has nothing to do with money as a means of payment in everyday life. Instead of claiming it wrong, it would be much more sensible to deal with the risks of crypto charges. There, too, there is an urgent need for an identity check in order to put a bar on the use of criminals. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to the accusation of the debt union: The fact that the European Heads of Government agreed on a comprehensive development plan is an admission to the fact that after the financial and subsequent economic crisis, the policy of abduction was a mistake in the ten-years. You want to do it right this time, and that's good. The reconstruction costs money, and the EU can borrow loans at better conditions. This is a major failure, as if every country itself were concerned about its money on the financial market. It is precisely the joint procurement of these funds that enables this money to be committed to creating a win-win situation, because, in addition to the urgent recovery of the economy, we will create the urgently needed digital, climate change and social change, thus building a good future for Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Reimbursement of these funds also follows a good plan. It is intended to be used through new EU own resources. There too, when the Member States make wise decisions, there is a win-win situation. These new sources of revenue for the EU will be good means of control in the best sense of the word. For example, it is a CO2 margin compensation for fair global competition conditions for European companies; it is a digital levy, which also deserves this name, an extended EU emission trading system and finally an at least European financial transaction tax. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is therefore about the investments that we need at the moment to stimulate the economy; and it is also about the Union making us fit for the future by means of innovative steering measures, while at the same time increasing its own share of resources in such a way that the Member States and therefore also the Austrian taxpayers are relieved. Now a sentence to the constant envy complex: Strangely, the Austrian economy also supports the fact that some countries are actually getting more funds from this fund than others. Especially in Austria, we live beautifully from export and should therefore know how important it is that all European countries really get through the crisis. If important partners of ours persist in the crisis, this turns out to be a boomerang for the Austrian economy. Finally, I would like to point out that the question of how EU funds are used in itself is also important. In certain Member States, European funds have been stifling in dark channels for years and are even used by their own governments to reduce the rule of law. As a European Parliament, we therefore called for the rule of law to be applied immediately last week, since 1. January is finally in force. It is a pity that the FPÖ voted against and that the EIA was very different in the vote, because this is a great opportunity for Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have to pull more than ever. Especially the Corona crisis has brought us our own vulnerability. We should actively call upon people to cooperate and not to insure them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e11520	Mr Peter Wurm came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e11545	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! This is a very exciting and, as I think, revealing discussion. There is the model of free citizens in a free Austrian – the other model is total state control according to the model of the USSR or China, as the Greens would like. Where we stand, I think, quite clearly: We obviously stand alone with the free citizens in a free Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] Three parties, I think, can be found elsewhere. It is exciting which side the ÖVP stands on; there are different currents. Even today I'm not quite clear on which side the ÖVP really stands, but I'm loading You like to follow our path. Free citizens in a free Austrian – that is, I believe, the right way we should all take. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Upper Noster]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this Corona era, however, there have been some Fakenevs from the government side and its experts. Now I come to the subject of cash. You remember: One of these fake news of the experts was at the beginning that the virus is almost transmitted via cash. That's why they said: You can't use any more cash. In my opinion, this has been so much in line with the past few years and decades that we wanted to make the cash pretty much the garaus. This has a little tradition: They recall the abolition of the five hundred euro notes, now there is the ominous 10 000 euro cash limit. So everything goes in the direction of impossibility or restriction of cash. On the other hand, we have had very exciting discussions in the Consumer Protection Committee on the availability of cash. Today, it is a topic for the citizens of Austria that they are very difficult and sometimes very expensive to come to their own cash: via banknotes and bank branches. In some rural regions, it is not so easy for ordinary citizens – and of course the Greens do not understand this – to come to their own savings. These are also issues in which one obviously walks a path that we, as a liberal, naturally do not want to go along with. One has seen it in the Corona crisis: Many companies were allowed to refuse unpunished cash. Currently my favorite airline, the Austrian Airlines, still refuses to accept cash on board without penalty. I'm trying to end this now. It always says everyone, especially the Federal Chancellor: Cash must still be available accordingly!, but there are numerous companies in Austria that do not comply with this. As I said, We want free access to cash, we do not want a glass citizen like in China or in other dictatorships. Anonymity and privacy must continue to be given, and we will fight for that. We will not tire out either, Mr Bundeskanzler, invite you once again to raise this to the constitutional rank. I hope that, in the interests of the citizens, we can perhaps take the SPÖ with us in this venture, so that we have secured it for all times accordingly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The suggested arguments that one would almost hinder the crime, the mafia or anything else, cost everyone who knows, I think, just a smile. On the contrary: This rather helps even the mafia structures, which in recent years have not become weaker, but rather stronger. You're definitely on the wood road. I would like to mention one more because it is often forgotten: We have lost this anonymity gradually in recent years. I remember that no one at the time really realized the effects of the introduction of the Iban for all of us. Today, they can very, very simply already understand all their account movements over the Iban. That is, we already have more or less a glass citizen – and the last needle tube still consists of 20 euros, 50 euros or 100 euros in the pants bag, with which you may still be allowed to consume anonymously somewhere without really making up what you do and buy all day. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] The negative interest rates have also been mentioned today. You will, of course, be a subject in the future in this crisis. The question is: How easy will one make states to access official bank accounts? You'll remember, This was not a problem at all in Cyprus ten years ago. Then there was a haircut. I wouldn't rule out anything. A story that has also gone down: We lost the deposit guarantee in Austria – if someone had forgotten that again. Although there is the Ominous Bank Fund, I would not necessarily rely on it. Even there you can simply see: If you have an official deposit, you are not sure in this case either. This protects a cash, and this is a topic for all Austrians – no matter if it is 5 000 euros, 12 000 euros or 20 000 euros. If you've worked it out and saved it, then you should be able to do it. We liberals are in favour of securing the cash in Austria for all times. I would be pleased if we could finally work with the ÖVP and then not only with lip confessions accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e11635	The next speaker is Mrs Nina Tomaselli. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e11656	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I must say to you, Mr Worm, and to the other colleagues from the FPÖ: Your speeches, which you have given out here today, are already a bit ludicrous. I somehow love your presentation that you, as a courageous warrior, are going to battle and fight against the enemies in Brussels in the most adverse circumstances. The FPÖ is almost Robin Hood, who fights for coins and shines as well as for the right-wing and subject-matters. [[Abg. Worm: Well recognized, Mrs. Colleague, well recognized!]] This is especially one thing: It is a spectacle and unfortunately has nothing to do with reality, because no one, nor really anyone, intends to abolish the cash, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: No one has...! No one..., Mrs. Colleague!]] We know what's behind it, dear FPÖ: You got into your trick box again, and as often as you do, you put on the concept of fear. They want to persuade people that anyone wants to forbid them to pay with cash. [[Abg. Belakovich: Are you...?]] This is not, of course, the case; the Commission does not want to do so, it has never demanded, and it will never demand it. [[Abg. Steger: How do you know?]] The EU Commission simply wants – and I believe it is important to stress this again – to introduce a transaction limit of EUR 10 000. That's true, too, because while criminals and money-washers enjoy unlimited cash payments, it doesn't concern the average citizen and the average citizen at all – or can you explain to me when you last walked around with bags full of cash? Well, that's a stupid example of the FPÖ; like H.-C. To show stings and others, this is certainly within the scope of the possibility. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Money laundering poisons the economic system – and this seems indifferent to you. For criminals, nothing is as good as cash. Money laundering, corruption, tax evasion, organised crime – none of it would work, there would be no cash. An upper limit on cash – and I think you have to stress it very often – is a contribution to tax honesty and is also a contribution to the competitive advantage of being honest. We have already heard today, 18 out of 27 EU countries have already introduced a cap on cash, there is everything between 500 and 15 000 euros. I can tell you a secret: Nowhere in these countries has the cash been abolished. Nevertheless, at the end of the day you have to hold on again: Everyone has the freedom to pay as he pleases, and that must remain the same. Nevertheless, it must not be ignored that criminals and money-laundering agents take advantage of large cash transactions for their activities.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e11745	Mr Helmut Brandstätter has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e11766	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, if life were so simple, Mrs Steger: We have the cash and thus the freedom in Austria. - I'm afraid it's not that simple. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] It is also not that one can say that we are free citizens in a free Austria. Yes, it is, but if we want to keep free citizens in a free Austria, we must become free citizens in a single and free Europe. This is our only chance. If you look at world history and world policy at the moment, you realize that we only have two possibilities: The object of these changes, which we can observe, or as strong Europeans, to be the subject of this history together in Europe. I would now like to go a little out of this little little little thing into world policy. We just had the event in Cornwall, and the appearance of President Biden was of course very positive, because he has stood up to multilateralism, because he has once again stood for friendship with Europe and because we had the impression that we can work positively with this President as Europeans. But there was also an essential difference. In the way and aggressiveness he expresses to China, we must already ask: Is that what we want? Do we not want to have our own China policy as Europeans? Of course, she can't look like we're saying: You're making it, and we're doing everything! – no – but by talking to the Chinese at eye, too, by setting our conditions, certainly also as regards supply chains, as regards human rights, as far as child poverty is concerned. But we have to decide, that is what we have to decide here. We can't rely on the Americans either, but that's what it says: We in Europe together. Or environmental policy: I am in favour of any measure in Europe and in America, but if we really want to reduce CO2 emissions worldwide, we must already see that the number of Chinese coal power plants is being reduced. We will only achieve this in joint negotiations and not simply by looking away. That's what I'm on the topic of Russia. Yes, Federal Chancellor, I am very much in favour of, of course, talking to the Russians. It is an important partner, it is a European partner. All over Europe, however, has seen to it that together with the Emir of Qatar, how human rights are preserved there, we know, you have taken part in this Sankt Petersburg economic debate. That's why I brought a book, it's really important, it's not about Russia, it's about Putin's Russia. [[Keeping the book “Putins Russia” by Angela Stent in height]] I would urgently ask you to cancel some photo dates and read a few chapters in this book or at least hear this one sentence, Mr. Bundeskanzler: Russia wants to assert its own interests against a divided Europe. - Quote. The Austrian Chancellor should know this, should appear together with the other Europeans, then negotiate with Russia and not be interrupted. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We want the Europe of values. What is happening in Hungary is contrary to European values. If one is judged there according to sexual orientation, excruciated, disadvantaged, then we have to get up and say: No, we don't like that! Mr Yannick Shetty will make another request. It has already been said: Of course, it is also about justice, it is also about the rule of law. We have problems with this in some European countries, unfortunately also in Austria. Wonderful, now there is an anticorruption popular desire! I am very grateful when several colleagues, including the Federal Chancellor, say that they support this. I will not use the evil word, but if you don't want to say one thing and do the other, then you must be very consistent and finally end these inconceivable attacks against individual prosecutors. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Ms Jilek has acted in the “standard” and has explained how she has been treated, how everything has been done to avoid further investigation. Martin Kreutner says – this is an important sentence: “If violence begins to inflame, undermine or challenge the other forces permanently, then the state will eventually collapse.” Then we have nothing more of the united Europe, but we need that: a free Austria, a decent Austria in a united Europe! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e11854	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. [[12:06:00]] Objections against the agenda in accordance with § 50 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e11876	That is what we are now entering the debate already announced. The first speaker is Mr Jörg Leichtfried. I'll give him the word. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e11900	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Unfortunately, we have been used to the dubious handling of this government with rule of law, with democracy, with parliamentarianism for some time. I believe that it has begun with the German Chancellor's remark that unconstitutional regulations are merely "juristic illiteracy", then has developed further and ends in attacks on prosecutors who find out, in attacks on the rule of law, in attacks on the Constitution. That is what is happening in Austria at the moment. And what is still happening is that the government parties and the government are trying to keep this Parliament, as small as possible, as unobtrusive as possible, as far as possible, to ensure that nothing material happens here. This is not our access to parliamentarianism, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This can be seen from some examples. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, I can well remember that at the last National Council meeting, Mr Obernosterer was here and said: Please, let's finally discuss content! Let's argue about content, let's talk about it! People should see what we have for different access to the issues. And what happened recently? – Government parties have postponed 57 opposition requests. If this is about content, ladies and gentlemen, I certainly don't need these discussions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If the ÖVP can't prevent discussions, one sees that what hurts, what people are interested in, what people want to see to be able to judge how a party behaves, what it does, comes as late as possible, so that it is not seen as possible, so that as few people as possible can see. This is not a parliamentarianism, it is not working in Parliament, it is not a debate, ladies and gentlemen, it is a parliamentarianism à la ÖVP that we do not need. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If one does not get along with a debate, even European declarations will be enchanted in order to postpone the debate on the ministerial situation against Mr Blümel as late as possible, in order to prevent people from being reminded again of how Mr Blümel broke the Constitution, that he refused to deliver files, that it needed the President of the Federal Republic who had almost executed, so that the Committee of Inquiry of this House might come to his right, to the right that we all have to demand and that we should stand together so that we can be informed and thus come to light, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Wöginger: Are you already against Europe now?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haubner: Sparse applause!]] On this, ladies and gentlemen of the turquoise ÖVP, do not you want to talk about it, you are ashamed of it, at least some of you, of that you are afraid of. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Because you can't prevent it, try to move it to a possible late date. This is unacceptable for a Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, that is why we are bringing in accordance with § 50 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council an objection to the agenda of the 111. A meeting was held with a desire for a debate. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Wöinger: Half two, half two!]] The subject-matter of the request is agenda item 2: Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 1581/A by Mr Leichtfried, Mr Kickl, Mr Scherak, Mr Van Miert, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 142 para. 2 lit. b B-VG against the Federal Minister for Finance. With regard to this item on the agenda, a presentation as Agenda item 1 is requested at the top of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, my appeal: Mr Blümel, Federal Minister, has broken the Constitution. Let us give the Constitutional Court the opportunity to find out about it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e12005	Mrs Dagmar Belakovich has now been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e12032	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! An objection debate must take place today because the representatives of the government parties have preferred what most citizens in our country are probably actually interested in, namely, the negotiations on the ministerial credit, here in the back – then, if they may already be in the pool – to row. This has been the hope of the ÖVP. I can even understand from the point of view of the Austrian People's Party, which does not want quite a lot of people to know what is going on with the People's Party and with some of its members. You all know, our Minister of Finance has broken the Constitution, he has refused to deliver files. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] At the last moment – then the President of the Federal Republic had to go out – he delivered them even though they had been prepared a long time before. He broke it up to the last one. This is not a way of dealing with Parliament, but it is not a way of dealing with our Republic either. Nor has it been particularly surprising that this Minister of Finance has done this, since he has already shown in the past that he and his family, with his friends, views this republic as property. This ministerial loan has also gotten a shot of up-to-date, because Öbag chief, one of the best friends of our Minister of Finance – who has refused to deliver his files – has resigned. It will not have been without a reason that Mr. Schmid has suddenly resigned with immediate effect. Just one question on the verge: What about the entourage he took? Ladies and gentlemen! This Mr. Schmid has not been able to sit alone at the head of the Öbag, since there were very important helpers in this Republic, there were indeed Finance Minister Blümel who wrote to him: “You’re a family” Of course, he has also been supported. This too has been the case of the Minister of Finance of Blümel, so all these statements, all these situations, all these processes, are related, you can not see it all individually, not in isolation. In view of these chats, which are gradually being released, it is also not surprising that Minister Blümel, of course, tried not to deliver files. The worst, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, however, is that you continue to make him the wall, although in the In the meantime, it is known that this minister is no longer portable, that this minister simply breaks the right and that this minister does not take the Republic seriously and therefore does not take the citizens in that country seriously. That's why I'm starting to ask myself the question: What Promises You're getting rid of it? It is unpleasant to discuss this, I understand – then see that he resigns, because this resignation is more than overdue, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party. But sit down in the presidency and say: So we are now making a European declaration on the future conference, although there is nothing in the content at all: Ladies and gentlemen, this has been a cheap rule of procedure that you have applied there. We are ready to compromise and have proposed to make the declaration of Europe later, because the citizens in this country are interested in seeing how a minister who has actually shown misconduct is really being dealt with. That is the right of the Austrian population, that is the right of those who pay this minister with their tax money – and not too narrow. But they have nothing else to do but wall up, but to let the Minister sit on his chair, so to speak, so to speak, that he and his like can continue to stuff their pockets. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that's the basic evil in this republic, that's the basic evil of this Austrian People's Party, there's only family, mobs, animals, by the way there may be women, but those that are then also taxable for delicate things. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] That's the main problem, these are the categories you're thinking about. If one of them is blown up and if one of them is wrong, then try to cover it, instead of offensively dealing with it and also attracting the consequences. I would expect that to happen, because it needs political hygiene. We believe that it is necessary to negotiate before, because the citizens have a right to know what has happened, because the citizens also have a right to see how they are walled. You know exactly, the later the afternoon, the less television viewers there are, as ORF 2 does not transmit anymore, ladies and gentlemen. It has also been of no use to President Sobotka to try to explain to us: Well, after 1 p.m., there are much more spectators, the quotas are much higher! – If this is the case and if the EU declaration is so important to you, why not make the EU declaration after 1 p.m., ladies and gentlemen? [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] That would have been it, so that's a contradiction in itself. [[Abg. Wöginger: There is a lie that the beams bend!]] – You know, Mr Wöginger, if you are talking about the lie, I would be very careful. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] This is located in the ÖVP, there is a lie that the beams bend.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e12099	Madam President, if the Intercession was the accusation of lies, then I'll see what's in the record, I haven't heard it. In any case, you have made this accusation, so I give you a call for order. But I'll see if that's in the record. You now have to write the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e12132	Our conclusion is: We want this to be negotiated here at a time when the citizens in front of the televisions also have the opportunity to track it.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e12156	The next item is Mrs Gabriela Schwarz's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e12180	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Now, for all those who watch and listen to us, order a little to create orientation: What is it about? – It is about that the opposition has decided to be as attractive as possible with an attack attempts. [[Abg. Deimek: That's probably...!]] The Mar, that the ORF is turning off, is complete nonsense, please. Of course, the ORF first transfers to ORF 2 and then to ORF III, so this argument really goes empty. What's that supposed to do? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Also the journalists don't suddenly leave the gallery at 1 p.m., that's ridiculous. What is it about? – Instead of working constructively for Austria, German Chancellors are always tried from the beginning to get rid of short. I can only tell you one thing: This attempt to ignore the will of voters is absolutely empty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have a federal government, we have a German chancellor who works – and especially in times like these when it is about successfully experiencing and processing the biggest health and economic crisis, that is more important than ever. [[call to the FPÖ.]] These attempts are what really irritates me and what also irritates the people outside, namely, to strike a political tone in this House, in which it is only more about discrediting, prejudicing, coming up with arguments that are cockbucks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Faith You're all serious that this is going to be good outside? How can we make it clear to young people that it pays off to work in politics, to become a politician or a politician, and to represent the interests of the people when this House is treated in this way? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: You're right, the Austrian People's Party doesn't pay it off!]] I've got to wonder. In Brussels we are talking about the future of the EU, and this is also about our future. The fact that this issue is being wiped away from the SPÖ so lapidar, that really surprises me; I've been wondering about the FPÖ for a long time, because they're on an anti-EU course, that it's just so out, but I really would have expected something else from the SPÖ. What kind of picture do we give international when we say: Europe is not worth anything to us, we will eventually discuss it.Unknown term type: "%s".? Where are our values and values? [[Abg. Belakovich: Where are the values of Minister Blümel?- Oh, my God!]] It is clear that the political debate in this House and also in the Committee of Inquiry have brought about a tone that is anything but a sense of appreciation for the people – the appreciation we feel for them. We provide an image outwards, in which it is only about who has done this and to make pre-conceptions. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – Yes, all serious, please: We are in favour of rule of law, not a question, we are in favour of strengthening justice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] That is why the chancellor said quite clearly yesterday: Yes, to the popular desire! We are in favour of strengthening personal rights. What we cannot have for is this underground tone, which is only more abominable. We're quite clear about that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] What we and the population have been experiencing for some time now is quite clear: SPÖ, NEOS and FPÖ: Just a short while away! [[Abg. Belakovich: It is about the Lord Blümel!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I say to you one, this attempt by SPÖ and FPÖ 2019 has failed. It would all be good advice not to try again. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] This attempt will fail again, because I say so briefly and I am very confident. [[Call SPÖ and FPÖ:No longer long!]] This Federal Chancellor and this Federal Government accompany us well through the pandemic and secure Austria a really good future. Don't forget that and, once again, don't forget what picture we're out in public! That's last-class right now. I am deeply convinced that if we come back to this House with propriety and respect, we will all be able to accompany Austria well. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I miss grace and respect with very many in this house. My appeal: Let's win them over again!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e12336	Mr Kai Jan Krainer has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e12360	Mr Schwarz's speech, of course, was not on the subject; it is not about briefly, it is about blossoming. She was right with one, however, namely that the tone that has been entered in the committee of inquiry in Parliament is really class-class. This tone has two persons to answer: One is the chairman of the Sobotka Committee of Inquiry and the other of the leader of the Group of the ODP Hanger. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] Everyone can be convinced of this by setting himself in and listening to the sound of it; it can also be read by everyone. If the ÖVP were not to wall all the time, you could also watch it live on TV, where Mr Hanger can always be seen on television, where you can watch it live – do not hold within the framework of the investigation committee, but within the framework of discussions or news broadcasts. My colleague, Mr Schwarz, is perfectly right, this tone is really last-class. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tashner.]] What is the point of this debate? – With the help of the Greens, the ÖVP would have preferred to postpone the debate on a ministerial settlement against Minister Blümel to midnight. This is not so easy, so you have invented this EU debate – inventing it! – which will take place afterwards. She wasn't supposed to. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz:... at the special presidium...!]] – She only came to the special presidial, but on Friday she wasn’t talking at all. You invented them over the weekend, because it was clear to you that it was unsustainable to discuss the ministerial loan against Mr Blümel after all the constitutional points. They invented the EU debate over the weekend. You could do just as well tomorrow at 10 a.m., that would be an even better time than today. It is only your concern to postpone and hide the debate on Mr Blümel, because you seem to be generating for his behaviour – and you are right to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] We can look at the behaviour of Mr Blümel. ==References== January last year, 2020, for the first time, get a call to deliver files – files and documents to the Investigation Committee under the law. He ignored it. ==References== ==References====External links== ==References== More calls last November. ==References== For the first time, we have voted in favour of a so-called rupture in which we have said very detailedly what files and documents are missing. He ignored that again. ==References== On 1 March, the Constitutional Court of Justice, under the obligation of Minister Blümel to provide these documents and documents. What did he do? - He ignored it. He printed them and had them hidden in the basement because he knew that at the end of the day the governor came and took them. They have already been printed and prepared in the basement. These documents were already completed in March. We then went back to the Constitutional Court and said: Please prefer the Constitutional Court, Minister Blümel ignores your knowledge, he ignores you, but makes the request to the President of the Federal Republic for execution! ==References== In May, he did so, and Minister Blümel classified more or less – unlawfully in Stage 3 – the files and documents that had already done quite a lot of dust in the meantime simply banged at Parliament's door. We then went back to the President of the Federal Republic and pointed out that he was not doing this properly. He then began to deliver these files and documents electronically and not only on paper, but this delivery is incomplete to this day, until today the Minister has delivered incompletely. I mean, there was once a party that said that it stood for propriety, transparency and control. That was the green party. In the meantime, what you are doing here is to cover, darken and make an unacceptable behaviour of a Federal Minister – a Federal Minister who has no respect for Parliament and democracy, who does not respect the Constitution and the rule of law and who does not respect the Federal President and the people. You do the wall to him, and it's inappropriate that you do it. [[towards Greens]] You should agree to this motion for a reluctance and also this amendment to the agenda so that we can now debate it here and forward it to the Constitutional Court of Justice to decide whether the Minister has broken the law or not, as provided for in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e12443	Mrs. Sigrid Maurer is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e12464	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters! For the spectators: What is this about in this debate? – We are in a so-called objection debate. What does that mean? In principle, we in Parliament have the use, the requirement by the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, that we agree on a common agenda in the President – the President is made up of all the heads of the political groups and the three Presidents of the National Council. This can be achieved in most cases – fortunately indeed – so that we can agree – all five political groups with the Presidents of the National Council – and a agenda that looks the way they can all accept. It is now true that today we have two current hours and an EU declaration by two ministers. An EU declaration should actually take place twice a year; no such EU declaration has yet been made in this GP – corona as a consequence, time-consuming et cetera. It is nothing less than the future of Europe, the European Conference, and I must say that I am somewhat surprised by the aversion to social democracy on this important issue, because it should be a central concern to you. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The Rules of Procedure in Parliament shall provide for the following: First, the current hours are always coming; we have already dealt with them. For all the explanations, it is the parliamentary use we have here, Mr Leichtfried and also Mr Krainer, that they are at the beginning of the agenda – and so are these EU declarations. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They rightly always insist that we comply with the uses of this House and do not break. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] But what you're doing is pick up raisins now. The use should not apply if you want to discuss an agenda item earlier. What is it about? - It's about 1.5 hours. I don't know where your voters are at 2:30 p.m. or 2:00 p.m.; maybe they'll sleep for lunch. I don't know where your big worry is. There is the Internet, it is transferred to ORF III, the debate you want is in the middle of the day. However, we have the use that comes first the explanation, which we will now discuss, then we will finish the agenda and there will be discussed the ministerial anchorages – quite normal. [[Call the SPÖ:Where, please?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Haubner: Listen!]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] What you're subtracting here now is a show for 1.5 hours, and you yourself are now making a further delay. They shall ensure that this debate is held potentially by 1.5 hours later. That the debate will take place at a later date, you yourself are responsible, dear Social Democracy. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I think this behavior is childish and a little embarrassing. The opposition parties are absolutely right to always insist that the use of the house be respected and that we make decisions together. The President and the President, too, are trying to create a common agenda, a common procedure for holding our debates here in the house, and all parties should participate equally. [[Abg. Lightenness: That's why all parties strive!]] [[Further call to the SPÖ.]] You were not in agreement with this agenda, okay, the debate on objection is your right, but the occasion and interpretation of the Uzances, if they do not fit into your mind, I do not think I am worthy of a genuinely state-bearing social democracy. Of course, we will not agree to this motion for a resolution either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e12567	Next speaker: Mrs Susanne Principal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e12588	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! A brief summary for the spectators: The main agenda items must always be dealt with at plenary sessions until 1 p.m., because until this date the transmission time and transmission by ORF 2. After that, it goes on in ORF III, which is right, but everyone – at least here in the plenary session – knows that the number of spectators drops dramatically from 1 p.m. on. The main items of the agenda will therefore always be negotiated before 1 p.m., which is why the government parties' intention to place the ministerial anchorages after 1 p.m. Mrs Schwarz has very passionately spoken here of propriety, respect and good tone in this House. I really share this concern with her. It has also complained about the lack of appreciation that is being paid to it. – In this context, I would like to ask you: Have you ever read the chats of your party colleagues? So it's not exactly so full of propriety and respect, either, nor of propriety and respect for women. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Maybe they'll keep you away, but you should read it a little bit. Dear ÖVP! What frustration, what helplessness, is there in you that you now need to grasp this easy-to-view maneuver? That's embarrassing. And with permission, Mr Hanger, honourable Member Hanger, leader of the Group in the U Committee, your announcement to shake and sign immediately to the anti-corruption people's desire, this popular desire already exonerates before it ever started; these are such transparent maneuvers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] Nervousness is spreading; I can imagine this well: It flows so much money to the media, there is media promotion and yet: The cooking pot in which it brews can no longer be closed. You are caught in the coalition with the Greens, you have to be publicly measured and moralized; on the other hand, you obviously cannot help yourself and then leave your frustration to others, partly to us, but we do not. At any rate, I consider the attempts of Klubobmann Wöginger, Minister of Finance Blümel, who will appear here afterwards to take away the best time of transmission, to be really very uncooperative and strange. Just because Klubobmann Wöginger is not part of the closest circle of the family, he doesn't need to be so small to send colleagues Blümel right to the TV-Nirwana. He has told us last time that he likes to come to Parliament, he likes the discussions here and does not shy the discussions. He puts his husband there anyway, so please let him do it. The fact that he is sometimes a little forgetful does not disqualify him from the office; That's why you don't need to hide him right away. This is actually more apologising for him, because of course one already forgets to comply with a VfGH's knowledge or to deliver files in good time. We want to talk about all this here. He also deserves to be able to explain here to the spectators and voters how he will oppose and justify this ministerial loan, and that at the best time. Please, the public at large also has an interest. She wants to listen to what she wants to be able to explain, and it is also a bit entertaining. Maybe he also explains some emoji and what it really meant. What was hidden in the messages between him and his best friend Thomas Schmid? We want to know all of this. In addition, he has also stated that there is something quite normal about Obmann debates in the ÖVP. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Well, let's hear that! Who cares? The fact that you really want to hold a debate on the future of the EU, which we actually had on the morning, and here two ministers want to chat, is rather depressing, the future of the EU does not look so good. We would rather listen to the Prime Minister's request and provide the Minister of Finance with the best time to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e12651	Next came Mr Nikolaus Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e12673	Madam President. I am indeed a very passionate and convinced parliamentarian and I am pleased with every debate on the amendments and the Rules of Procedure. Today I just don't quite understand, I have to say honestly. We are now discussing for 1 hour whether we are discussing the ministerial support in 1.5 hours or half an hour earlier. I personally do not know the television behaviour of all Austrians. I think there are also people watching TV after 1 p.m., who also watch ORF III; young people look at it in the same way in the TV library or the like at all. Yes, I also understand that if the government parties had postponed this to 23.30 a.m., they would be opposed to the agenda. I would understand that, but that is not the case, and with every minute that we are discussing here, the debate on the ministerial charges is actually moving one minute further backwards. [[Congratulation with NEOS, ÖVP and Greens.]] There have been discussions in the Presidency as to what this is; there is this EU declaration to the future conference which I consider extremely important. It is not only provided for in the Rules of Procedure that there are EU declarations, but it is very much about this statement on the future conference; we have been discussing for a long time that such a one should come, and that is de facto only today. It is not possible in July because Members of the European Parliament cannot be present. Today they have already been there, and it makes sense for us to join the current debate. As a compromise, the ministerial reference from item 5 to item 2 has been put forward; this is a compromise that does not have to be satisfied with, that is okay, but as has been said: Every minute we discuss it now, we discuss the other at the same time. In that sense, I am saving you further remarks and I hope that we will then discuss properly on the ministerial basis, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e12717	Before I give the floor to Mrs Kuntzl, I would like to say that I have received the Stenographical Protocol of Mr Reimon's statements from the previous debate. It is clear from this that you have made the accusation to a group represented in the House: “You’re still the Mafia –, [...]” – I’ll give you a post-order call. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Kuntzl is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e12755	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is about the agenda being designed in such a way that what is unpleasant to the EIA is not discussed as a matter of priority, but rather a bit backward. Of course it is a matter of course, because what the EIA does not want to talk about is to be given away if it cannot be prevented. This is the real issue and, ladies and gentlemen, this is why it is also the subject of presenting this logic, this procedure of the government parties. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] You can understand it a little bit, too, that this is unpleasant. It's been weeks now, new things are coming up again and again, and it won't be more pleasant for the ÖVP, quite the contrary, it's getting more and more unpleasant. The unpleasant thing today is that we are here in the house over two – two! – will discuss ministerial charges against two ÖVP ministers, one against because he has violated the Constitution, and the other, the Minister of Economic Affairs, because there is suspicion of infidelity in connection with the failed department store Austria. One understands that this is unpleasant, but it does not justify the process of hiding it and clearing it in the back of the agenda. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] To the colleague of the ÖVP, who said that the House here was a last-class one Image delivers: Not the house provides a last-class picture, Mrs. Schwarz – not the house! –, the ÖVP offers a last-class picture in recent weeks. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I know it's unpleasant to you, it's quite unpleasant to you – the chats that came out there and which have rightly led to first withdrawals. These chats are not private at all, not private at all. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Even if they were not intended for the public, they are not private, because it is about dealing with the rule of law, it is about dealing with justice, it is about deeply political issues, and it reveals the attitude of these officials towards these rule of law principles. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Show the help for the given action@item event, to-do or journal.]] They have therefore led to withdrawals with full permission. Now I come to the Greens: The Greens fulfil in this relatively harmless point – but that is why it is all the more surprising; it will be discussed later, will be given away – the will of the ÖVP. This is not a point that could really be dangerous to you; but the Greens are now once again fulfilling the role that the ÖVP expects of them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disoski]] This is not what you have argued today, but it always comes back, namely the point: We don't want to overmate each other! We can't beat each other in a coalition! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Ribo and Mr Schallmeiner.]] – I understand from the principle. I would just have a little thought for the friends of the Greens, namely: It could also be seen reversed once again, namely that you do not overrule the ÖVP, but that you will be permanently overshadowed by the ÖVP. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner]] You could turn this over and say: We want to enforce what we think is good, and not be overcome by you! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] – This would once be an attitude we would expect from the Greens. [[Complementary and intermediate call to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of once again having unpleasant things on the agenda for the EIA, which we could discuss further in the first place, for which we would request approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e12867	Next speaker: Mr Christian Stocker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e12888	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear sisters and spectators at home! What we are currently experiencing here is anything but a star hour of parliamentarianism. [[Abg. Belakovich: Oh, that's it?- Oh, my God!]] The questionable methods of the Committee of Inquiry are now being transferred to the plenary session. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I am really surprised that the SPÖ, together with the FPÖ, is taking part in this objection debate and then says that we want to prevent this debate from taking place at a good time – at a time when there are as many spectators as possible – and at the same time prevent this debate from taking place earlier. [[Abg. Belakovich: You prevent this!]] I know you found yourself here in some kind of dangerous coalition. You here – I am saying this very clearly – are endangering the reputation and confidence of the people in this Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interim calls at FPÖ and NEOS.]] Mrs Belakovich, I know your party has great experience with the threat. As Minister of the Interior, her designed partyobmann has threatened security, keyword BVT. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] In connection with the Corona measures, they jointly endanger the health of all of us and the population, and you now, together with the SPÖ, are endangering confidence in this Parliament. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Brückl and Mr Belakovich]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] What is it about? - That's a special class sham debate. The Rules of Procedure will again be used to hold a sham debate. It's not about the content at all – we're going to discuss it in the debate on this ministerial anchorage – it's about show, it's about stage, it's about scene, it's your concern, it's nothing else. [[Abg. Belakovich: A sham is called...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I'm gonna tell you something. In fact, this debate is only about whether Agenda item 2 should be the first. But if you are already dealing with the Minister for Finance, I can tell you one thing: Right is not broken by him, but respected by him; yes, is respected. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Ah-Rufe at the SPÖ]] I also tell you, as a lawyer, that: These documents have affected a new legal environment. Such a thing has not yet existed in this dimension and in this generality. [[Abg. Belakovich: That's not true! ...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] Those who seek financial procuratorship are willing to comply with what the Constitutional Court recognizes. [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] That there is a breach of justice, I reject. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] The fact that you want to talk to the Minister of Finance about a ministerial contribution is self-evident, without any basis. [[Abg. Belakovich: Believe it!]] But we can talk about how this republic came through the Corona crisis. [[call to the FPÖ.]] What you have spoken about and what you obviously want in part, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, namely that income would have fallen, is not the case. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Average 1 percent: That is minimal for this crisis. [[call to the FPÖ.]] The pleite wave, which is always the point of reference, is not at all in sight, on the contrary. [[Abg. Belakovich: Mr Colleague, this is an objection debate!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] It is true that this economic location prosperates that confidence in the economy is great that entrepreneurs invest. [[Abg. Belakovich: But you already know the Rules of Procedure?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] We have come through the crisis better because of the help from the Ministry of Finance, which we have decided here, than most other countries in Europe and the world. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] This is a merit of the Minister of Finance, and we are happy to talk to you about it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I'll tell you something. As a parliamentarian, I consider opposition policy to be correct and important. [[Abg. Belakovich: Really?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] A High Representative of the SPÖ said: Opposition is shit! – I’m not of this opinion, even if you’re trying to get him right. I'll tell you: We respect this Parliament, we respect Parliament, and we will discuss the non-proprietary ministerial loan at the item on the agenda on which it is planned, and not when you wish. [[Abg. Loacker: Go!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Since when?]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Interim calls at FPÖ and NEOS]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e13224	In the speech by Mrs Belakovich, I have pointed out that I have been informed about Mr Klubobmann Wöginger's call for action, and that is now before me. Mr. Klubobmann Wöginger, you said: “There is a lie that the beams bend!” and for that I give you of course a call for order. [[Intervoke at the ÖVP: vote yes!]] Mr Christian Hafenecker has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e13267	Mr Stocker, it is really remarkable what you always draw for analogies and in which parallel world you are actually on the go. You just said: Gernot Blümel is the minister who respects the law. I'm sorry, have you forgotten that we only recently talked about the fact that the President of the Federal Republic had an execution order against him?- Oh, my God! He has trampled the right with his feet and has ignored it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] This is the subject that we have to deal with here all the time. When you gave your Sunday speech, I thought it was not bad, so it's still a step over it. Because you said earlier that Klubobmann Kickl was a risk to the state, Mr. Stocker: I won't let that go at all. [[Abg. Haubner: Well!]] But what we can do – you are in the Committee of Inquiry yourself – is that we can already talk about files that have been delivered to us, even if they are classification level 3, which is actually about the betrayal of state secrets, and the whole thing in the ÖVP universe. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: Where are the Strache chats?]] – Mrs Schwarz, I understand that you are now very, very nervous. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: Where are the Strache chats?]] – The strache chats are simply not there – I would also be interested in them – because the ÖVP is simply and grippingly overburdening the judicial system with its corruption; that is the point, otherwise we would have read the strache chats for a long time. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the light of this debate, the following questions were raised: Of course, you have done everything for it – the legal bending in the high house always works after the direction of the ÖVP – of course you have seen that with Gernot Blümel you are outside the main television transmission time, so that it is not broadcast live in the ORF, that it is time-consuming and may be broadcast in the night – whatever. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz]] That is your aim, Mrs Schwarz, and you must stand by it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cannon]] Sage It's the same thing: We don't want to talk about it, we want the state 2.0! We have seen this many times with you. You're bending the right where it goes. You are still taking my colleague, Maurer; I am actually sorry. Now at least she has her party day behind her, and there they beat each other on the shoulder and said: Yes, we are, in fact, the opposition in the government and we are giving the ÖVP gas! [[Abg. Haubner: No one understands what you say now!]] The fact is, however, that Mrs Maurer has already made himself again and has, so to speak, laid the slide for your legal defense, which you keep on doing. One more thing: If the agenda is the same as it is, then it must be said that there is a name under it, Mr President Sobotka – and it also shows itself in the Committee of Inquiry repeatedly how it leads it, how it leads it Partyically and how non-equidistant it is doing, which at the end of the day is just a round. Ladies and gentlemen! These are exactly the characteristics that we have worked out over and over again, where it is about the deep state, which the ÖVP has just settled and which she wants to serve, where it is also about the woman minister, who then always has her own authority – in which she has not worked a day yet, but the measles post is definitely there – criticised. – So these are things that just give a deep insight into the ÖVP and how it works. For one thing, because the President has called for an order for this story with the Mafia: It is true that the call for a regulation against Mr Reimon has been fully justified, and the Mafia has already said that it cannot always be blamed for methods of the ÖVP, so it is also insulted. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] That is, I understand that and I also have a total understanding of this call for order. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it has been just right and important that we make the objection debate so that we can simply make visible what the ÖVP is driving again, what ÖVP wants to do again and what the ÖVP is like. To conclude: We are always a little tied in the face of your classification levels. You always make the bock a gardener, the minister who supplies the files, always says what stage that is. However, I say now, also to the danger that Mr Wöginger is now arresting me personally and incarcerating me, what Minister Blümel did last week: [[Abg. Wöginger shakes the head]] He sent us an act with the classification level 4 – level 4!, that's about the danger of human life and so on and so on, that's what it's supposed to be – and then it turns out that this has been the I-phone book of Mr. Blümel's Minister Blümel; They lead us around at the nose with a level 4: That's how you are, and that's exactly what we're going to do!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e13410	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. I ask the political groups whether we can proceed with the vote immediately. - All right, I'll go that way. I would ask those Members who want to take account of the objections to support the presentation of Agenda item 2 as Agenda item 1 in order to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority, and so it remains on the written agenda. [[12:52:57]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e13446	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e13762	I inform you that the Sixth Report of the Incompatibilities Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. Request for a further extension of the Ibiza Investigation Committee
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e13780	I announce that in accordance with § 53 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Investigation Committees submitted a request for a further three months extension of the Ibiza Investigation Committee. A debate on this request will take place after completion of the agenda. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place in accordance with § 53 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Examining Committees at the end of this meeting. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e13805	It is proposed that the debates on points 4 to 7, 8 to 10, 11 to 14, 15 to 17, 18 to 20, 22 and 23, 24 and 25 as well as 26 to 28 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e13826	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP 156, SPÖ 108, FPÖ 88, Green 80 and NEOS 64 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club for the entire agenda for each 32 minutes. In addition, their speaking time is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask you to give your consent. – This is unanimously accepted. In addition, the following speaking time was agreed between the members of the Presidential Conference for Agenda item 1: the Federal Ministers: up to 10 minutes each; three rounds of speakers according to club strength: 5 minutes each, of which two rounds of speakers to the National Council, one round of speakers. Let's go into the agenda. [[12:55:58]] 1. Point EU Declarations by the Federal Minister for EU and Constitution and the Federal Minister for Climate Change, Environment, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology pursuant to § 74b para. (b) the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the Future of the European Union
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e13883	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. In accordance with the agreement just mentioned at the Presidential Conference, these declarations should not exceed 10 minutes. I welcome the two Federal Ministers in our midst and give the floor to Minister Karoline Edtstadler first. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e13911	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. High house! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! If the EU did not, we would have to start it now. – This quote comes from former Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, and he did it on 9 October. In a joint interview this year on Europe Day. As a convinced European, I agree with him 100%, and as a convinced European, I am also firmly convinced that this very debate on this European Union needs to be discussed here in this House. That is why I would like to begin by thanking myself for the possibility and at the same time expressing my astonishment that some see a declaration of Europe as a provocation or a distraction maneuver. I'll tell you: For me, Europe is the first place! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer:... and for me Austria!]] The last few months, the last one and a half years, have clearly demonstrated the strengths and weaknesses of the European Union. We have experienced what it means when border bars go down from today on tomorrow, of which many of us, especially the young generation, did not know at all that they were ever there. We have experienced what it means when skilled workers from the surrounding Member States were no longer able to travel to Austria every day without obstacles. We also have to experience what it means when families have to get out from one second to the other without their 24-hour caretakers for parents and grandparents. And we have also seen what it means if, for example, you suddenly don't need 45 minutes from Salzburger Pinzgau, but 2 hours to the hospital to Salzburg because you can't drive over the Deutsche Eck. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Much, ladies and gentlemen, has not gone perfectly. Much has also worked well: Think of the numerous economic aid, of the aid programmes, of the 750 billion euros of reconstruction funds, which was finally decided at a marathon meeting of all the Heads of State and Government! [[Abg. Hauser:... funded by credit! ...to break every European law!]] Remember that in a very short time – and no one would have thought it possible – it has succeeded in bringing vaccines to the market from several companies, allowing them to produce, and making them available to people free of charge! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] All of this went faster than we believed at the beginning. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, since I was a Minister for Europe, I have had the opportunity to get to know many people from all the Member States of the European Union. I also had the opportunity to travel to many Member States to take a picture on the spot, and I say to you: I am constantly impressed by how this European Way of Life, this vision for a Europe of freedom, peace and prosperity on this continent has been continuously implemented since the end of World War II. In all the differences that exist over and over again, one of our values, such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights, is our common foundation of cooperation. However, I also say to you that it moves me deeply if you look at the state of the European Union in the second decade of the 21st century. The European Union is the same as a construction site. The ‘Majority of the Austrians sees the EU as a failure’: This statement does not come from me, it is found in the study of the European Council on Foreign Relations, conducted in April and May of this year. Or: “Neither is the image of the EU worse than in Austria.” – This says the current Eurobarometer survey. Ladies and gentlemen, this doesn't leave me cold. I have met thousands of people – virtual, physical, speaking in the federal states, at discussion events – and after all these talks I have to tell you, yes, the Austrians are right, because the great challenges are still unsolved. Consider, for example, the incomplete internal market: Our economy needs the internal market so incredibly urgently in order to be able to compete globally. Think of the migration problems that we can only solve together and decisively at European level, or think of the digitization, where we, from large corporations from the USA and China, were behind us! Yes, the EU is facing an existential threat today. Let us speak this truth and speak this truth! Let's talk about it, without falling into old thinking patterns, into thought patterns, which are called: Whoever criticizes is anti-European! Whoever criticizes, only the opponents of the EU help! Whoever criticizes is a populist! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] I am convinced that anyone who thinks this way today is at risk of Europe, who still thinks this way today, creates room for anti-European tendencies and does not have an ear with the citizen and with the citizen. I tell you, we have to criticize the European Union, not because we are anti-European, but because we are pro-European, and on this pro-European path I see no alternative. But this also requires that we address the problems that we are discussing about solutions. It will not be easy in the future, it will not be easy to find a consensus, but it should be worth it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] That is why I am very pleased that the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, has taken up the idea of Emmanuel Macron, the French President, and has launched the future conference for the European Union. The Austrian Federal Government has welcomed this from the beginning, and as Minister of Europe, I have always been committed to the start of this future conference as quickly as possible. I admit that there was a one-year delay at the European level, but on 9 May, there was a delay of one year. In May of this year, on the day of Europe – which was also the day of the Mother's Day – this future conference could also be launched at European level. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is the opportunity to discuss, to think and to co-design, in the community, in the clubs, in the school, in small and in large conferences throughout Austria. It's really too little to be rauncing. If you are not satisfied, you should start to shape it now. If we are not satisfied, we should now act as an input provider to make events and discussions, at least take part in them, because this is the real opportunity to shape our common future, finally to address the problems clearly and clearly and to develop convincing solutions. I would also like to mention some of these demands – which I draw from many conversations that I have already made: I demand that the economy be stopped. The EU is the world’s leader in drafting regulations. Europe has the rules, China and the USA have the profit. Data protection and consumer protection are essential, but if there are no more jobs, they are probably less valuable. The focus must finally be on innovation. We need more dynamic markets, otherwise we will be depended on. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Maurer and Mr Rössler on his work.]] The European Way of Life has always been built on social cohesion and economic strength. That was our recipe for success over the past 70 years, and that should be it in the future. I demand a real commitment to free trade. We all know the problems of Mercosur, and the Austrian Federal Government is against the present Mercosur Agreement in its present form, but we need a solution and we also need free trade, also with Latin America. We don't need to hide the competition either. At the end of the day, we will be getting better and better off with EU free trade agreements. Why? – Because we have the opportunity to help shape the framework conditions and not to let others dictate them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I call for this promise to be finally delivered to the countries of the Western Balkans. It is about the credibility of the European Union. It is also about security for the European Union. As long as the countries of the Western Balkans are not part of the European Union, the European Union is not complete. This will be a long way, but this long and rocky path will be worthwhile if we support these countries. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Disoski and Mr Maurer on his work.]] I call for the end of illegal migration. The problems of the world cannot be solved on the Greek islands or on the boats in the Mediterranean. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, everyone in the world should have the right to live according to the European Way of Life, but we remain realistic, not everyone in the world can make this European Way of Life possible in Europe, and it is our task to export our values, our attitude so that a perspective can be created in other parts of the world. In my view, this is the only way to solve these problems. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Deimek: And off!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] I call for a slimmer and faster European Union, a European Union that does not have a Parliament that travels between two seats and provides 27 Commissioners with a portfolio. We need to dynamicize the institutions and processes. We need more weight in foreign policy. We must fight decisively against climate change with industry and the economy in order to meet our goal of being the first climate-neutral continent in 2050. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign again.]] [[Abg. Schnedlitz:... all the time on the red lamp!]] We must speak with one voice and use Europe as a common strength. We can only solve the major issues together, which we can leave to smaller ones also in the regions. Let us now talk about the future of the European Union! If you are involved, talk to us when it comes to shaping the European Union of the future in the future conference! The Republic of Austria lives in a strong, united, forward-looking Europe, in a strong European Union that is crucial to the citizens of Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e14061	I am now speaking to the Federal Minister for Climate Change, Environment, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e14082	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to extend a very special welcome to the Members of the European Parliament for this debate. Dear EU citizens, who are watching us in this debate today! I've been looking at the 12th. On June 16, 1994, on the day of the referendum on Austria's accession to the EU, I was not yet able to vote. But I can still remember very much the joy I felt at the time when I heard the decision. Almost 20 years later – almost on the day exactly 20 years later – I packed my suitcases after six years in Brussels, where I worked for a strong, for a solid, for a social, for an ecological Europe, and returned to Austria. Since then, my Twitter profile has been “European Austrian”. Yes, well, I feel enthusiasm for Europe when I think about our Europe, when I think about the EU, and what it is, and more, when I keep up with it and think about what it can be. I know that I share this attitude with many people in Austria, in Europe, throughout the EU, because we see what we have in the EU. We have, I believe, experienced it clearly and painfully last year, what it means if we no longer have the achievements that we have achieved together. How much have we missed the freedom of travel and how painful we have felt, what it means when borders within Europe go up again. But we also see the potential we have in our European Union. It is precisely this enthusiasm, this knowledge of what the European Union, what Europe means for us, is what the project is doing, and it is wonderful and it is good that way. Otherwise you'd have to invent it to keep it going. Many great progress, many great achievements we have already achieved together in this EU. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] From time to time, however, it is good and important and necessary not only to keep a project running, but also to press the pause button briefly to see: Where do we stand, where do we want to go, where does the shoe press, what changes it takes to achieve our goals, what we have done together really do? It is precisely the persuasion of the European project, especially the knowledge of how important it is, that does not prevent us from seeing what is not yet optimal. On the contrary: This very enthusiasm, this very knowledge of what we still need to do, gives us the strength to really address the necessary changes. We, particularly we, who are particularly involved in the political discourse in our country, in the European Union, have responsibility for this discussion, have responsibility for the style of this discussion. We should never Forget: If we demand from the EU, then we ask for it at the end of the day – because the European Union, we are, as a whole, the European Union. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is precisely what we need for the next major development steps of the European Union. It was opened in May. The Conference of the Future offers us the opportunity to address more closely the many challenges and open questions that have arisen over the past few years and, above all, to find good solutions, good answers, because in order to remain good, the EU as a Community, as a Community project, must always remain flexible, must be able to learn, it must also allow for corrective processes. There is, of course, a potential for improvement, and there is no doubt at all about that. Not least the last months have shown where we have weaknesses, where, above all, in crisis situations, we see that we still have air up: in good dealings in the Union with each other, with crisis situations. In the year of the pandemic, in a year that was certainly a historical one that caused a lot of suffering, in Austria, in Europe, we also saw that this was a moment in our history, in which we have also seen very clearly weaknesses – but it may have been the moment in our history in which Europe has assembled and taken a further step towards the future. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We must really reflect on our principles, the mechanisms of the Union and its structures, some of them rethinking. We can, where necessary, also set in motion adjustments and reforms. However, this can only happen if we really get innovative and effective results. We will only achieve these results – I am convinced – if we create a broad process of participation in reflection, reflection, discussion and evaluation in the context of this future conference and its countless individual events. All the citizens of Europe are invited to participate, because thinking about Europe and Europe's future means thinking about our own future. With this future conference, we want to put the work of the European Union on fresh, fit and reliable feet. We want to create an EU that is fair, sustainable, resource-saving, environmentally friendly, but also close to citizens' and citizens' faces the great challenges of time, meeting them by finding political and social models, whose practical implementation also strengthens all our confidence in this European Union century project. It is clear that this can only be achieved if this reform process is carried out by all those affected by the results. Europe is thinking about itself, in particular, that it is the citizens of Europe who are concerned. One of the key issues of the Future Conference is democracy in Europe. This question is basically not new, it insists on it over and over again in times of crisis. We know that the great, current challenge is to deal with the medical, social, economic consequences of the Covid-19 Pandemic and related to building our economy on ecological foundations – and above all, the historical mission of our generation, namely the climate crisis and the crisis. to counter biodiversity. That's why it's right now. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The Green Deal has already given us an excellent tool in the EU. The major common task, which now covers a large number of and very different policy areas, is implementation. Looking at what we have on the agenda in the Environment Council of Ministers, the circular economy, the measures and ways to achieve our climate objectives, the zero pollution objective, the promotion of ecologically sustainable investments in industry and industry, the production of clean energy, sustainable goods, a climate-neutral mobility system, the preservation and protection of our ecological life, as we continue the global sustainability goals, the SDGs, also at European and global level, shows: For a life-worthy future in Europe, in Austria, there is just a lot to do on this planet, and the European Union is doing very, very much. For a future worth living – and this is particularly important to me in this context – to mention: In each of these areas of the environment, we are concerned that we do not leave anyone behind in Europe. Leave no one! – This must not only be a headline, it must also be reflected in concrete results. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Sieber.]] We also need a co-thinking of the international dimension, which is understood by itself. We are all, I believe, aware of the fact that, in the end, we can only develop great solutions for our planet together with our partners. Our joint reflection on Europe and its structures is intended to address the challenges I have described with the appropriate measures and means to give our Community European Union the structural equipment that is suitable for dealing with current and future crises. To find the best solutions is now the task, and this is best done through the participation of as many people as possible. The EU-Future Conference – let's never forget that! – is designed as a civil society process. All citizens, civil society actors from all Member States are called on to participate. Yes, we want, and yes, we all have to hear these voices, because a Europe, a European Union that hears only some voices, will not be able to avoid blind spots. We therefore depend on the citizens, and therefore my appeal to you, to all who are watching us today: Take this opportunity, take this opportunity, take this step and support the EU, support us all in our way and in our new step towards the future! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] ==References== The first conference session of the Future Conference will take place in June. An event for citizens will take place, also an Austrian woman is represented: Valentina Gutkas is a town in the district of Gutkas. We shall vote in favour of us on June in Lisbon. I think it is an invitation to you all to listen with open ears to what young people in particular have to say about the future of the European Union. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] The Conference of the Future will deal with many questions, but I hope, above all, that the Conference of the Future will continue to revive or revitalize a bit of enthusiasm for this great European project. This is an enthusiasm for the people of Europe, for diversity, for cohesion, for learning from one another, for the creation of a common future. Enthusiasm for the European Union project.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e14225	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, according to the agreement at the Presidential Conference, no speaker should speak for more than 5 minutes. Mr Reinhold Lopatka has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e14255	Mr President. My dear Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! We have had heated debates today, but I believe that in reality the most important thing, especially for the youth of the country that we are now leading – because the future of Austria is Europe. I see no alternative outside the European Union, and I hope that all political groups will see it that way. Of course, the European Union can be seen very positively, but, if you are serious about it with the European Union, you can also see this critically. It has already been mentioned by European Minister Karoline Edtstadler that the one that is important to Europe does not necessarily have to be the one who is in a jubile choir in the first row. That is how I see this future conference. The new President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, also recognized this very quickly. What image did Europe last give after the great mood of enlargement with rounds of enlargement, not indebted itself? – We had the euro crisis in 2008, then we had the migration crisis and the Brexit, which is not a success for the European Union, not at all for the UK. When the future debate was to begin, the corona crisis came, and these are, of course, crisis-like phenomena. That is why it is all the more important to start now. The European Union is a complex structure, so it has taken a relatively long time, until some centralists in Brussels, and I would like to say this critically, have recognised that the European Union also needs the involvement of national parliaments. Mrs Bundesminister Geessler, I understand that it is of course important to involve civil society, but here are representatives elected by the citizens. That's where you have to find a real balance. I believe that, as we have put it here in Parliament, we have the opportunity, together with our colleagues from the Federal Council, to make an essential contribution, as an Austrian National Council, that at the end of this discussion process, one does not move to the agenda, but that one or another change will be taken together. If the European Union in this dynamic world – and we need to be able to look beyond the EU’s borders – it needs to become faster, more manageable, more self-confidence in individual areas so that we can act accordingly. So far, we have been reacting primarily after crises. I believe that, because Mr Matznetter, who was also the Secretary of State for Finance, has learned from the euro crisis, the euro has been strengthened since then, and the stability mechanism is an area where we have made progress. In the area of migration at European level, I cannot say that yet to mention another example. That means what I mean is: When we discuss the future of Europe, national parliaments must be involved. Imagine, we're discussing the future of Austria and we're cluttering the federal states – I'm so lucky, I could just wish for it! We already had the Austrian Convention with which we tried to bring our country forward in terms of cooperation. That means that I am absolutely in favour of this civil dialogue, but I am also in favour of giving the national parliaments a corresponding weight in the debate. We'll be sitting together for the first time tomorrow. We have - -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e14294	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to interrupt you, but you wanted to make one more request and only have one minute's speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e14310	Yeah, I'll do that very fast. So we'll be here tomorrow, and my idea is that we're focusing on our youth in the country. It is also a colleague from the French Parliament who is following the debate. France wants to become active together with us as far as the Western Balkans is concerned. We could send out signals that go in the right direction, namely to enlargement and to the future, and that is the youth in the country. I should therefore like to make the following request and thank Michel Reimon for preparing this request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask all the political groups to vote in favour of this request, and thank the President for the information so that I could still make this request properly. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[13:25]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e14445	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, it is properly put in place and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e14469	Mr President. Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! Quo vadis, European Union? Where do we go with the EU? Where is the way to lead us? For me, for us as SPÖ, one thing is clear: This path must be a commoner one. Only in a united Europe can we address the questions of the future. Last year, too, we have seen very, very strongly where, above all, national and egoism can lead us: Mask deliveries are not passed on, borders are closed, one country against the other. But there is no alternative in a global crisis. A virus doesn't say: Huh, border, I'm not going over that! – That is why this common path is so essential and important, and it will only be so well developed, as well as we really work together on many, many future issues. How do we create a fair and just Europe? – For example, this is one of these questions. Of course, the fight against tax loopholes and a strong commitment to the rights of workers are very important issues, which have not become relevant until last year. Group incomes pay less taxes than the coffee house around the corner – a topic that we have already had in the European election campaign. Workers are under pressure when their framework conditions for good work in the competition are gradually reduced. Austria also has to get on the nose. For example, in the past year and in the past, we have always see again how the rights of harvest helpers were trodden with feet: Hungry wages, molded mass accommodations, passports are reduced – all in the middle of Europe, in the middle of Austria. It's not just that we can't watch: At another point, Austria has not necessarily put up with fame. Under Turquoise-Blue, family aid has been indexed – a symbol of backward European policy in recent years. We want a solidarity tax and social union that really protects and takes it away from workers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But we also want – and this is, I believe, very important in the Pride month – a colorful Europe in which social diversity is not only tolerated, but also part of which one can love and live, whom and how one wants, and in which LGTIQ prohibition zones in Poland and Hungary are strongly condemned. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic.]] We want a Europe in which every attack on women's right to self-determination must follow clearly with regard to abortion: no millimeter – my body, my decision! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] These are things that we must never accept in a Europe of the future. For the young generation in particular, the European Union has already demonstrated so many positive things: Free movement of workers, vacations, travels, without a visa, calling, chatting and surfing without roaming fees, expanding the horizon, learning and continuing in the supported Erasmus plus program and going to many countries without having to change the currency. All of this is Europe, all of which is our community, and that is beautiful. It is now important not only to uphold these achievements, but also to develop them in a truly broad dialogue at the EU's future conference, in which all parties can share equal opportunities for future generations. I believe that this is an essential contribution, especially in the time of Fakenevs and Desinformation, because the European Union is constantly confronted with conscious misreports on initiatives and projects. The European Union is not the evildoer in this game – it is the superhero, and we must carry it out with a loud voice. I think the most central part of this future conference is that many citizens can participate in it. They really put great hopes in developing this together. Austria has also been asked to participate constructively, and I believe that we must not, at this first step, put the consistent exclusion of reforms or further steps into space. We want a progressive, a Community Europe, a Europe of people and a Europe of opportunities for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e14549	The next speaker is Mrs Petra Steger. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e14573	Mr President. Dear ladies on the government bank! High house! I have to say, I find it almost amusing: We have almost never had an EU debate here in the House, except, of course, from the current European hours, and there are hardly two ministerial claims against ÖVP. Ministers on the agenda, swipps, there comes an EU declaration surprisingly, and we even have two EU debates on just one day, just so that your corruption and mismanagement will be on the agenda a little later and once again will not receive the media attention. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] It's no longer absurd, but these are the well-known and also typical parliamentary pocket tricks, which we know only too well from the ÖVP. Since the first meeting of the EU-Future Conference takes place on the weekend, this of course offers a great deal for a statement. Although there is no news yet, there is no real agenda yet, nothing is discussed in terms of content, because it is also more about organizational things, but no matter what, the ÖVP has thought: We'll just talk about it anyway and repeat the same phrases! – the phrases we've always heard, and that's exactly what we've heard today. The application by the government parties is also free of use. There you have simply copied everything that can be found on the homepage of the future conference and written in your application, what is already planned anyway. The novelity, ladies and gentlemen, is zero. But, well, you want to talk about the future of the European Union – I would like to do so – then we will talk about it. Let us talk about all the disastrous developments at EU level! Let us talk about the ever-increasing EU centralism and the associated task of our national sovereignty! Let's talk about you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, selling Austria piece by piece to Brussels! Let us talk about the creeping overall change of our constitution! Let us talk about the innumerable EU legal and constitutional breaks that you constantly agree with! Let us talk about how the EU abuses the corona crisis in order to greatly expand its competences. This is, ladies and gentlemen, even if you do not want to hear it, a disastrous mistake, which we will certainly not support and even condemn on the hardest! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I find what Mrs Edtstadler said in her speech quite amazing. It has actually said that for them Europe is “primary”. I would like to answer that – and I believe that I can also speak here in the National Council of the FPÖ for my colleagues –: For us Austria is still the first place, ladies and gentlemen! It is not about being for or against the EU, but it is basically about the future direction and development of the EU. For years, we have been experiencing an EU that has shown numerous developments. We have been experiencing for years an EU that has still not learned anything from the 2015 refugee crisis, which is unable to protect its external borders, let Turkey blackmail and still speaks of refugee distribution, as is the case with the current asylum pact debate. Despite the corona crisis, we are experiencing a huge mass migration. We have experienced a vaccine disaster – Britain has shown that there is a much faster approach to vaccine outside the EU. We are experiencing the task of free movement of the EU through the introduction of the European Green Pass, although the WHO has disapproved of it and the corona numbers are so low that there is no longer any basis for it. We are also experiencing, as stated in the previous debate, a debt union in which we are now paying and liable for other countries' debts. Once again to the cap of cash and the threatened abolition of the cash – some colleagues seem still not to understand what it is all about –: Of course, there is not a cash abolition yet. That is why I have also talked about a sluggish process, and we see the danger that the steps now taken are going there. In the past, the EU has shown several times that things that were still unthinkable some time ago have come quite quickly, textual Eurobonds. In addition: I wouldn't trust the chancellor's word. For this very reason, we want to include the protection of cash in our constitution in order to provide a clear sign of the protection of the freedom of our citizens in this country. But, as has been said, we are experiencing negative developments in the European Union. Not for nothing the first member country has already left the EU. The sad thing is, Great Britain is just proving that it was actually right. The “trade sheet” just quoted – I quote –: “From Brexit-Flute – Great Britain is expecting record upswing”. – This very result is, of course, a disastrous development for the EU. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] Despite all these developments, criticism of God – even if you have said it should be – is still not accepted, and all these wrong developments will not change the future conference, unfortunately God, because this is only a show citizen's participation process, where the final result is already established, and that means again: more EU.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e14654	The Member of the European Parliament, Thomas Waitz, is speaking. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e14679	Mr President. Mrs Edtstadler! Mrs Geessler! Ladies and gentlemen! We here in the House share something, at least we share it with the majority of Members: Many of us – most of them – are glowing Europeans. It has brought us peace, reconciliation with our neighbours, prosperity, an area of human rights and economic prosperity. This does not mean, however, that everything is going all the way within the European Union, which does not mean that everything is fine. This year, we have seen some shortcomings in the Covid crisis. We have seen a lack of cooperation between the states in the fight against the Covid crisis. We have seen a slight pace in the measures, different border regimes between states. We have seen that there are different test rules when passing from one country to another – one is valid for so long, the other is valid for so long. We have seen that there have been different quarantine rules. We have all made a flick carpet of lockdowns and not necessarily acting optimally. Some things have also gone well in the procurement of the vaccine and some have not gone optimally. As we have seen, the European Union needs to speed up, as the European Union needs to become more effective. We have seen that we are dependent on global supply chains, in very sensitive areas. Once 80 or 90 percent of antibiotics are produced in China and India and no longer in Europe, we have to think about how we might get some central and strategic economic areas back to Europe. We have seen other powers influence our European domestic policy – China, Russia – and also with vaccine diplomacy. We have been harmed by the fact that individual national states are out of the common European line, and we have also seen that shortcomings in foreign policy are still to be assessed. We could be stronger globally if, in our foreign policy appearances, we focus more on the common interest, because we will not succeed in dealing with small national states against our systemic rivals China or with the aggressive behaviour of our neighbours Russia, to counter our model of enlightened democracy, human rights and free society. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] However, we also see much more need to vote when it comes to the issue of the climate crisis. You all know, we've launched a 750 billion euros recovery and recovery fund, that is, reconstruction funds. This sounds good for the first time, but that does not mean that this fund really achieves the objectives set, i.e. that it does not automatically ensure that the local and regional economies benefit from it or that citizens actually see something in their money bags. The example of solar systems: Ten days ago I was in Spain. Spain wants to cover 100 000 hectares of agricultural land with solar installations. You see a green one here, I'm a big fan of solar energy, only I say: First, please the households, first all the roofs that look south, east or west! This brings something to the citizens, which reduces their energy bill or perhaps even creates a small income. It does not therefore bring so much insanity to distribute the money unilaterally to individual large, often state-owned companies. We have to look at the fact that local craftsmen, local businesses, are actually benefiting from the support, because this creates the number of jobs on the ground and it creates something like social justice in the transformation and transition of our economy to a CO2-neutral economy – and we need to pay better attention to that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This future conference, which has now been launched, has been discussed by us in the European Parliament for some time – openly: since the European elections – and it has also taken some time for us to reach our decision to send this conference on the road. This is a pity, because we only have more than one year for a process of integration, and we must be aware: Specific solutions will not be able to stand at the end of this integration process, for which time is too short. What we can do, however, is to collect opinions and the majority, the ideas and suggestions of the national parliaments, the regional parliaments, such as our country days, but in particular of citizens, and to put together constructive proposals. There would be quite a lot of positive things that could come out of it, for example, strengthening the direct choice of the President of the Commission or the President of the Commission, perhaps something like a small number of mandates awarded for national lists. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] But I do not want to prejudge the results. It is about listening to us taking up these proposals, and it will be our task – in the national parliaments like with us in the European Parliament, in the Council and in the Commission – to make proposals to further our common Europe. – I thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e14757	Mrs Claudia Gamon has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e14778	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is nice that we once again have an EU declaration, even if its purpose was perhaps just to somehow move a ministerial credit to unfavorable television times. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disoski.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bernhard.]] I know you're really not used to listening to the members of the EU from time to time, but I'd like to say a few words now, namely: That's typical. It is something we know about the EIA, because when we talk about the European Union, everything has only one purpose, which is to distract us from our own mistakes and instead to assume that EU institutions and European partners are responsible for something. That's how it works over and over again. Last year, the greatest hits of the anti-European rhetoric of the ÖVP were quite seamless. It was about an ominous – under quotations – “Impfbasar” and – under quotation marks – “secret” supply agreements, which the Federal Chancellor suspected somewhere at the Commission. However, the fact was that, like all other Member States, Austria was, of course, very clear and very closely involved in all decisions. However, instead of looking for responsibility for ignorance and misconceptions in itself, one has again sought elsewhere and has also directed relatively absurd accusations towards the European institutions. Current example: the green pass. The Austrians know what it is like, perhaps, perhaps not. Actually, we don't really know. What's inside now? When are the vaccines in there? Is it actually more practical than a printed PDF? At the moment, we're not sure about this. But what did German chancellors say about this shortly in March? – “We do not want to wait for implementation at European level”. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now, of course, we are still waiting for the implementation at Austrian level and are still waiting for it to be completed. Today, the EU infrastructure is already ready. ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website In addition to damaging our common institutions, the ÖVP also incites resentment against our fellow citizens at European level and against other governments in Europe, thus also harming our reputation throughout the European Union. We recall what Sebastian Kurz has said about other EU Member States, which in his opinion are “just and gripping in their systems”. – I believe that the people who live in these countries that he mentioned at the time only have to read newspaper regularly to read about the weekly new revelations on corruption suspicion or similar in the ÖVP, and are horrified. States that are somehow broken in their systems: What could be meant by that? In fact, the ÖVP is playing the once good reputation of Austria just to make political little money. The ÖVP has its own career over the country, over its citizens and above the European Union. This is the basic problem we are currently having in Austria. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] As long as it helps the ÖVP, the collateral damage is completely no matter where it arises. We have seen in recent weeks what impact this EU bashing has had over the years. Those who looked at the last Eurobarometer, including the European Union’s reputation and the trust of Austrians in the European Union, could see that the EIA’s work has been successful in its sense. The Austrians are losing confidence in the European Union due to the ÖVP. This is a lasting damage which the ÖDP has to answer on its own. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Matznetter.]] Since you didn't even have to help the FPÖ, you got it all on your own. However, not even the EIA can do something about the fact that citizens have greater expectations of politics and expect more from politics. They also expect more from Europe. To further develop Europe is the task that the EIA will also have to face in the conference on the future of Europe. [[Abg. Kugler: There we sit! There we sit!]] [[Abg. Hanger: Here we are! You're always talking about it!]] I am really excited if we are still talking at this future conference. I'll see what you're going to do with it. [[Abg. Hanger: Great speech!]] [[Further calls to ÖVP and Greens.]] I am really interested in whether any meaningful proposals on the EU reform will come or whether one will once again be satisfied with looking for the fault with the others, just as the ÖVP always does. [[MEP Mayer: You haven't done anything else for 5 minutes!]] It's always the same. We won't let you get through with that. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Matznetter.]] Europeans have different expectations for the future of the European Union, more than the EIA would trust them.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e14907	Mrs Mag.a Carmen Jeitler-Cincelli. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e14928	Mr President. Dear women ministers! High house! I'm honestly a little baffy now because I think: Just 5 minutes to use and not to make the theme a single time: Where do we want to go? Where's the confidence? Where are we going with Europe?, but only about the ÖVP and the chancellors is completely absurd. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The European Conference on the Future is the theme! Honestly, I have the feeling that the NEOS are really not what they were for a long time. I think Matthias hurts awfully, but I'm not saying anything more about that now. [[Abg. Matznetter:...by the ÖVP...!]] Conference, conference: The word concerre comes from Latin and means: join together, bring one another together, contribute. The dialogue we are now entering is an open dialogue with people all over Europe, and it should all feel deliberately invited. I am particularly pleased that MEPs, i.e. MEPs, are here because this is really too rare. I believe that we can also better identify with the topics and even get a little into the dialogue. I would like to raise and raise three questions about this dialogue today. The first question is: What really matters to us as a Europe? Who are we and what is our identity? What is our role, the essence, the role in our world? For me, Europe is primarily the home of great thinkers. Europe is a continent of philosophers, inventors, scientists and explorers. We have the spirit of creativity, culture, architecture. Only if you look at these rooms, the design, the innovative power: All of this is based on a watchful mind. Our common European DNA is the enormous creative power of humans. What is the basis for this creative power? – I thought about it: For me, it's freedom. We are a continent of freedom, a continent of free people who can think freely and are individuals. Gio Hahn called the European Forum Wachau this last week, he said: Unlike the US and China, we have a democracy embedded in an eco-social market economy as a countermodel to dictatorship and turbocapitalism. – Ladies and gentlemen, that is what is happening. It's a privilege to live that way. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The second question for me is: What have we achieved in this Europe? – We have peace, we have an intact nature, we have a rich cultural treasure, architectural masterpieces like this one, like Vienna, like Milan, like Paris, all that we value so much. We have by far the most attractive sales market in the world. Only 5 percent of the world's population reach more than 20 percent of the world's economic performance. – Federal Minister Karoline Edtstadler, thank you for your clear commitment to free trade. Yes, we will have to make a clearer confession in many respects, and there we will have to get together – a very clear confession. We therefore finance social benefits – as also an appeal to SPÖ – 50 percent of global social benefits are available in Europe – 50 percent! – and the development aid funds also come from Europe. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And I'm proud of it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] We have a safety net that secures one in old age, during a disease, in every situation in life – we can be proud of that. [[Abg. Matznetter: What about...?]] But it's quite clear: We can't get over it. At some point a limit is reached, where a system can also collapse. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: Not with us!]] The third question: Who do we want to be as a Europe of tomorrow, and how will we be the best version of ourselves again? – It naturally scratches our self-confidence, our self-esteem: Brexit; Switzerland and the framework agreement that fails, which is not accepted. This feeling of being unattractive, so you say: They don't want to belong to me!, perhaps everyone knows, and I think we must consciously go ourselves on the road to feel attractive again, to develop a self-esteem again. That's the real question. It is a question of reason to see this value consciously, and for that we need a whole new conclusion. A clear look goes to South-East Europe, which is necessary – thanks also for very clear words. Yes, South-East Europe, this is our future. It must be quite clear that we are not only sending signals there, but now we are following actions. I am coming from Kosovo; there are people who are really working so hard to lead this country to the EU, and it is our job to support it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Last but not least: How do we become the best version of ourselves? – The path can only be: Optimizism and confidence, not a trade like that of colleague Gamon before, but prosperity, confidence. The forecasts are illuminating, with the economy going up. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] We invest in future opportunities, here also called sustainable topics, and believe in people, in our infinite creative power in Europe! [[President Hofer gives the bell sign again.]] What Europe needs is a new spirit of enthusiasm. Mr Hofer, very briefly to you: I would ask you to continue to support us if we vote next time on an SDG paper or something similar, even if it is foreign policy. I believe that this conference of the future, all with regard to these sustainability issues that make up our Europe, is our springboard for an even stronger Europe and a clear commitment to freedom, to our European Way of Life. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign again]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e15057	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not sure if you have said so in the direction of honourable Member Gamon Gelffe. Did I question? [[Abg. Jeitler-Cincelli: (on the way to their seat) I don't know – what's going on?]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Call: Got created!]] [[Abg. Matznetter:... not questioned!]] – In this case, I must give you an order call for this choice of words. Mrs Julia Elisabeth is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e15132	Mr President. Dear High House! The EU's future conference – a process to reform the European Union. I would like to make two points. First: The future of the EU is not an external one. We are all writing them all together every day, yesterday and today, and that is why we are not presumptuously counting the beautiful speeches of the government representatives that we have heard today, but the actions of the last one and a half years at European level. I come to the first point raised by Mr Jeitler-Cincelli: We should be proud of our social state – I see it the same way! We should be proud of our social achievements, that, compared with other EU countries, we give a greater value to the fact that we cover 98 percent of all jobs in this country by collective agreements and set minimum labour standards, for example, in terms of paid holidays, or a minimum wage, because work must pay off. Yes, I see it like you, we should be proud of it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is precisely what is now on the table to support collective agreements and finally implement an EU-wide minimum wage throughout Europe, throughout the EU. But who's blocking that? - You! The Federal Government, the Austrian Federal Government, is there in person of the Minister of Labour of the ÖVP in the fight for fair wages across the EU. Even if it did not happen directly to Austria, because our rules are already going on anyway, you are against it. There is nothing at all if you speak beautiful words here today and say that the social state is so important if you then At the same time, they are those who prevent fair wages throughout Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We also do not need to believe that it does not happen indirectly when people work full-time in a country like Poland, for example, and then go home with unimaginable 500 euros. Then we don't need to be surprised when Austrian traditional businesses like ATB Spielberg are moved to Poland, because there can be produced cheaper – at the expense of the local people. Then we don't have to wonder if there are any discussions whether MAN Steyr is moving to Poland, because one can produce cheaper there, because the workers there simply don't deserve anything. A third of what we earn on average in Austria is paid out in Poland! This policy, when jobs leave, is in the middle of our hearts in Austria. That's a loose-less policy you're running! This is a lot for the Austrian workers who are losing their jobs because they are being relocated, and this is also a lot for the workers in our neighbouring countries who will cheat on their fair wage – lose-lose. However, the only ones who benefit from it are those who use this wage gap, which always move their production sites down in a race exactly where it is most cheap to produce cheaper and generate more profit. However, the general public has nothing to do with this, and this very principle – and I am already going to the second point – we find it very often in discussions when it comes to the EU, even when it comes to the taxation of large corporations. For years the national states in the EU have been substituting themselves, who will allow companies even more profits, who will require even less taxes from them. In our neighbouring country, Slovakia, it is 19 percent. In Cyprus it is 12.5 percent, in Malta it is only about 10 percent at all. Then Orbán came and said: No, I'm even cheaper, with me it's only 9 percent! – In Ireland, they no longer want taxes at all, saying: No, no, keep the money! We, the nation states, let us play against each other – who goes further down? – and what happens in the end is that big billions of profits are no longer taxed, while every normal working person has to pay taxes on every sausage he buys. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's this race down, and we have to end it! This will have to be measured by the future of the EU: whether we can achieve a fair distribution of the profits we all achieve together, the prosperity we all achieve together, so that the working people also have something of it, not only the shareholders and shareholders. That is why we need a European minimum wage, and secondly, we need a minimum income tax in this European Union, because everyone has to make their contribution. – These are the central questions. To both ministers: I've listened very well to your statements. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] You have not even mentioned these social issues. It's just not up to date! The European Union in 2021 must clarify: Work has to pay off, and it's worth something to us too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e15217	Mr Mag. Dr. Georg Mayer is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e15243	Mr President. Appreciate High House! Madam Minister for Europe, first of all I would like to thank you. I find it remarkable that you say here in the public at least once that criticism of this European Union must be possible and quite appropriate. This is a remarkable step in the right direction for me, because we have been beaten for years and days to say: Something has to change in this European Union. – There are many reasons for this, we know that you once were a colleague in the European Parliament. If we are going to be today – this European political hour has been thanks to God, we can now discuss Europe's policy for almost two hours – Mr Gamon and Mr Waitz are listening, so what they are doing to the best of this is to say: There really is no vision for a future of Europe, for where it should develop. We are living in a time – and we have already discussed that – which is probably the biggest crisis since the end of World War II. We now have a time frame in which we can also strengthen through legislation and at European level by creating framework conditions for companies that have suffered in the crisis. Mr President, I have always heard this from you in the election campaign: this bashing of the industry, as you call it, or the corporations. So 99 percent of the companies in Austria are small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises that create jobs in Austria. This is not the SPÖ who does this, these are the entrepreneurs, Mrs. Herr. Maybe think about it. She once bashing this, because these people are fighting for their existence. I believe that we should have a common goal of strengthening companies which will, of course, also create jobs for people in the country at the end of the day. In this essential time window, which will leave us little time, we are now and must set the course for the future of people in Austria, but also in Europe. At that time, the European Commission is making an industrial policy that is perceived as wanting exactly the opposite, that it does not want to strengthen businesses, but rather to put stones in the way of companies. This is a completely erratic climate protection, called Green Deal, in which you can drive a little girl from Sweden and media. Over the next 20 years, measures will be put in place to prevent entrepreneurs from developing, such as the reduction of greenhouse gases. That's what you've made worse: By 2030 these are to be reduced by 55 percent. This will go towards zeroing greenhouse gases by 2050. There stones are laid in the way, which is totally unrealistic and simply impossible to implement. What does that mean on the side of the energy suppliers? – That means nothing but that the atomic lobby in Brussels is already rubbing its hands, for they are the first to say with its nuclear milestones: We're making green energy. This is happening in a country – it surprises me a little bit that one hears so little about the greens, but with their government participation they can now be drawn like a dance bear from the ÖVP through the plenum – in which one is proud that one does not have a nuclear current. With this industrial policy, ladies and gentlemen, we in Europe are on the best way to become a European Disneyland for Americans and Asians, who then only come to Europe and Austria for tourism purposes. I think that this is the completely wrong approach, and I believe that we are. Entrepreneurs belong to support, framework conditions are created so that the economy can work freely, and so we should let them work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e15292	The next speaker is Mrs. Sigrid Maurer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e15313	Mr President. Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters! I can only write to my predecessor from FPÖ in the main book: Mr President, without intact planets, there will no longer be an intact economy, namely none at all. We must save this planet, and of course we must do so by making ambitious climate policy. There you are, unfortunately, on the wood road. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am pleased, however, that the large majority in this room would like to discuss the future orientation of the EU and its way to it in a material, confident and forward-looking manner. A bit disappointing, I must say, was the contribution of colleague Gamon. I stayed extra in the hall to hear him, but unfortunately I did not hear any idea, but actually only inside political lamento. It's a little too bad. The European Union is one of the greatest achievements of the 20th century. And I can still remember the referendum. I was 11 years old at the time, and the whole family has been persecuting how this is going to be done. I certainly did not understand exactly what was happening, but my parents were very happy, and that is why I was very pleased that Austria was able to join the EU. It was a nice idea that this Europe is now growing together and that, for example, we can pay anywhere in the medium term with the same money. I grew up in the Stubaital, that's what's on the burner. When we drove over the Brenner to South Tyrol, we paid there with Lire. The fact that this is not being done was a very special development. Man observed: Okay, there's something big going on, something's going on. The EU was a great promise, and it is now no longer to be thought away. We have established with the European Union a community of responsibility and solidarity with common rules, principles and values. The EU stands for values such as freedom, democracy, the rule of law, equality, human rights, but also for prosperity and cohesion. Cohesion in good times is not the great challenge now, in bad times it shows what it is wearing. Cohesion means dealing with crises and also looking at unpleasant truths. This requires the necessary willingness of all countries to do so, and this also requires courage. The fact that exactly this courage and this willingness is present in Europe has shown itself in recent months. The RRF is the largest reconstruction plan in Europe since World War II. What is described here today as a Union of Debts is a unique and absolutely necessary act of solidarity. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The fact that the EU is drawing on a common strand is seen in this common framework, at the objective, at the common objectives of the projects in the RRF. These objectives go in one direction, that is to say forward towards the future, centrally through climate and digitalisation projects. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Smolle.]] Globalisation, digitalisation are bringing the world closer together, and the crises that we face do not stop at country borders, neither the pandemic nor the climate crisis. They are global challenges, and they affect all people on this planet. These short-term and long-term crises show: We need to strengthen European cooperation and, in particular, to increase decision-making capacity. The Corona crisis has already shown impressively – but unfortunately sometimes at a snail pace – what power and crisis resolution the EU has. The RRF speaks a clear language in this regard and also shows that the EU can learn and develop from crises. In the course of the conference on the future of Europe, as agreed in the government programme, we must take this momentum with us for wide-ranging civil society participation, the adoption of decisions by qualified majority in additional areas, the right of initiative of the European Parliament and the extension of the codecision procedure. What does that mean? . I would like to take advantage of the European Parliament's right of initiative. Imagine, in particular, the representatives of the opposition, that you could not put forward any legislative proposals here in this Parliament, that you could not, on your own initiative, make proposals to do something yourself! This is a reality in the European Parliament. This restriction exists there, and it would be a very central development that the European Parliament will be given the right of initiative so that our Members can work there legislatively. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The European Conference on the Future - - Oje! Well, then I have to skip a bigger part of my speech unfortunately. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] What I'd like to say: Direct citizen participation is extremely important, we see it in Vorarlberg at the Councils of Citizens. We are creating a climate council, and I would like to call on all citizens to take an active part and to participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e15401	I can remind Members that we also have a digital clock at the speaker's desk, where you can see exactly how much time is left for the speech. Next speaker: Dr. Nikolaus Scherak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e15426	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! I believe that the future conference gives us the great opportunity to discuss the important issues in the European Union and further development intensively. I believe that the involvement of both the national parliaments, the European Parliament and the citizens is necessary, because it is clear that after the crisis we have been in for a long time now, a restart is simply necessary. This future conference will also give you the opportunity to get this re-start properly. But what is necessary for such a re-start within the European Union, Mrs Federal Minister, is, in my view, already a clear commitment by the Federal Government to the European Union, and that on 365 days. Mrs Bundesminister, you have mentioned that the image of the European Union is nowhere as bad as in Austria. That's terrifying, I'm right about you. You have to think about why this is so. This is what Mrs Gamon mentioned earlier: If you always, if something goes wrong, cancel the blame on Brussels and always, if something is great, say: Well, they did nothing in Brussels, but we were in Austria!, then you don't have to wonder that the Austrians may not confess to the European Union as well. Then, of course, the Austrian Federal Government is to blame for it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] There are hundreds of examples. Remember the vaccination: I, Sebastian Kurz, have solved the debate on the schnitzel and the Pommes, which the Federal Chancellor opened a week before the last European elections: The European Union wants to ban our schnitzel, and the question of administrative expenditure at European level, which was only about making Brussels bad. I think the world is changing, the European Union is changing, the geopolitical challenges are quite different than they were many years ago. In the context of the future conference, we must take advantage of the opportunity to further develop accordingly. You just have to imagine where we want to go and what role we want to play in the world. Think of the presidential years of Donald Trump – which have not been so long ago – and of the way in which politics has been made and how difficult it has been for the European Union to have a reliable partner! This can happen again and again. Luckily, now with Joe Biden is a convinced transatlantic American president, who has already said clearly at the meeting that he wants to continue to have a partnership at the same time. However, we need to become more effective, and an essential step towards the European Union's ability to act is that we finally remove the principle of unanimity that we can do so, especially in such important areas as foreign policy, in order to be able to say clearly how we want something as a European Union. We need more cooperation in security and defence policy; we do not even need to talk about migration policy. It is absurd to believe that we are able to resolve the migration issues nationally. You have also mentioned this, it is absolutely impossible. [[towards Federal Minister Edtstadler]] We must also – and I believe this to be very essential at European level – create a framework for entrepreneurs to be able to operate in such a way that we as a whole are competitive as a European Union and do not have the problem of being able to produce quite differently in other countries and, because we do not create this, we are constantly falling behind. We need to review the university and research infrastructure and set a clear priority. We need a serious reform of competition law – that is also a very essential question – and, of course, we need to reduce bureaucracy. This is one of the few things I agree with the ÖVP. The question is, where. An essential step is – we have already proposed this for a long time – and it is also, from an Austrian point of view, I think, very useful – that we say clearly: Es There is no need for such a large European Commission, it does not need a single Commissioner for every state. In any case, the national quotas can be abolished accordingly. We need a much greater identity in the EU parliamentary election – and we are convinced of this – to speak about transnational lists. Mr Waitz referred earlier to the direct election of the President of the Commission, the President of the Commission. This too, at least, makes sense. And of course, when it comes to the rule of law, the rule of law, we must work much more intensively at changing the internal European procedures, because we can only somehow export the rule of law and fundamental and freedom rights authentically to the world if we create it ourselves within Europe – even those who do not quite see it that way. At our neighbours, a few hundred kilometers further towards Budapest, we note how human rights are handled with fundamental and freedom rights, which are also trodden by foot. I think if we want to shape the future ourselves, we have to do it ourselves. If we don't, then others will define us, and I think that's the wrong way.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e15504	Mrs Simone Schmiedtbauer is the next speaker. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e15528	Mr President. Estimated Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! Thank you very much for allowing me to comment on the future of Europe today. I would like to start with a very clear commitment to the European Union. I am a passionate European, I am a glowing, burning European. For me too, Europe is in the first place, quite clearly. Austria is part of it, I as a human being, as a citizen is part of it, and I am very proud to be part of it, especially in this situation, in this crisis period in which we are in. We have created business model with the European Union, a model of society that reconciles democracy, the rule of law, sustainable growth, respect for climate and the environment and the quality of life of citizens. I believe in a strong, above all in a united Europe. Citizens have high expectations – and that is right. And yes, in recent times these expectations have not been fully fulfilled, but not only has Europe had this problem, this shock star problem has existed all over the world. The surveys, which are 34 percent, voted me very, very thoughtful. I was actually a little shocked about it, but I was now allowed to spend the whole morning with you and, ladies and gentlemen, after listening to some of your discussions, I am not surprised, but we can congratulate ourselves for having achieved 34 percent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Why? – Because Europe starts with us, with each one of you at home, as a human being, as a citizen. Europe does not begin before the next municipal office, before the Landtag or here in front of you in this House. This has to be an attitude, and you have to stand for this attitude. A colleague here, I think from the FPÖ, has referred to the Brexit as so positive: They made it, they're free now. – I have to tell you one thing: This day in the European Parliament was one of the most emotional in my life. We are together, ladies and gentlemen, who have not come close, because we are so many and sit in different committees, have reached out to us, have embraced us and have wept, a small part of it. [[Abg. Stefan smiles.]] – There you can laugh, that's in your genes. You almost have to appreciate how you're going through this. [[Abg. Stefan: That means a referendum will make you cry!]] That was one of the saddest moments for us Europeans. I'll tell you one thing, too. When we talk about Europe, when we talk about the future of Europe, then – and this has already come to the fore today – I think it was Mrs Schwarz who said that – it also comes to talking together. And do you know, Mr Commissioner, what Members of the European Parliament are doing? It may be very, very difficult, but it also makes - - - a remoteness, that is always a question of the point of view. [[Call the FPÖ:Absence!]] We don't have a coalition, we have to get together on every subject. We have to deal with the political groups, we have to sit at the table and discuss it until it fits for Europe, and it is of course that each of us has to cross red lines; one thing hurts one another, one another. But we then get up and have created something for Europeans, and that is the belief in a future of Europe. [[Abg. Stefan: And for Austria?]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs from Greens and NEOS.]] When we talk about the future of Europe, we also need to speak – and I am allowed to be a member of the Committee on Agriculture – about agricultural holdings, quite clearly. They are system-relevant and have covered our table every day during this time. We must certainly become more economic, ecological, social. We have to demand this whole thing. But let's not forget one thing: When we talk about the future, we talk about rural areas, about people, we talk about climate policy in terms of the Green Deal, and please, we need incentives on climate and environmental policy, no bans, and please also act with house understanding! Let's not leave anyone behind! Now it is up to the citizens to get involved. Let's listen, let's take our time, let's appreciate the opposite! The wishes, the concerns, the concerns – let's get this together! As a glowing European, I know that we can get out of this crisis together. It is up to us, to our statements, to our attitude. If we look positively at the future of Europe, we will also be able to experience a strong process of participation. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, ‘In diversity of mind’. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e15606	The next speaker is Mr Maximilian Lercher. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e15631	Mr President. Estimated Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mrs. Minister, I'll give you the right to: If one wants to develop Europe further, one must also highlight the critical points. We must do this in order to develop, because if we are honest, then Europe will no longer work in many areas, as it is today, for the very normal people. We are experiencing tax dumping among ourselves, the tax relief of large corporations and a wage dumping, which is particularly true of Austria. On major topics from climate change to Corona, we see a bit and effort and finally experience that the band that holds us together in Europe has become very thin. Mrs Minister, I think we should also think about the responsibility of the Austrian Federal Government, because if we are monitoring how you act and how you act at European level, then we note that you are usually not trying to compromise, but those who are still pouring oil into the fire, and that will not be a good thing for European integration. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we are talking today about the fact that we want to involve citizens in this dialogue – and, yes, must – then I would like to ask the question at this point as well: Where was this participation process in the funds for the recovery fund? – They were responsible for coordinating this in Austria. [[towards Federal Minister Edtstadler]] The municipalities, the cities, the initiatives, the citizens did not have the opportunity to participate sufficiently. They did not have the opportunity to participate in the 3.5 billion euros for our country, and I believe that we should have allowed participation as an important trust-building measure in terms of further integration and a better image for the European project. That didn't happen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's the truth! You're asking here today: Why is the image so bad? – Andreas Schieder, I believe, has put it to a good conclusion because you have degraded the European Union to the dungdo of internal policy! [[Abg. Haubner: He's never got anything to the point!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Please!]] You have to make this accusation happen – it is clear that if you follow your broadcasts and your populist statements at the expense of the European project. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you one thing: Mrs Schmiedtbauer probably had, I have heard, a Freud’s promise, because she spoke of the EU business model, and so I happen to you from time to time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] For you, Europe is a business model; we see Europe as a social union, which is intended to help us overcome injustice in social progress, and there is the minimum wage, as mentioned earlier, one of the most important points for our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you oppose this initiative at European level, then you are working against the interests of the Austrian population, then you are working against the interests of Austrian taxpayers because you are increasing the pressure on the very normal people in that country through the measures you are taking at European level. The principle of maximising profits for a few, which is the most important thing for you, should we urgently replace it with a principle that means: Human beings in front of profit, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is how Europe is to work: not in the small spirit with Hungary, but in view of the fact that we have to exist in a global market vis-à-vis the USA and China, that we have initiatives that protect, accompany and actively involve the European industry, as well as the States. We now need the courage to reach agreement, but not for the interests of the great, but for the interests of the people, the taxpayers and taxpayers. I would like this Europe to be one that is again discussing how we can become more socially just. That is where the honourable Member was perfectly right: You have made great statements, but in the end you have not lost a word about how we are setting up the Social Union – and there we need the first and important steps so that the citizens have more confidence in this so important project. That's why I'm asking you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e15720	Mrs. Dr. Susanne Principal has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e15744	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ministers! Mr Lopatka has already confirmed an disturbed relationship with the EU to the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Lopatka: Yes!]] This was actually the only sentence I really could agree with here, because I have an disturbed relationship to this form of the EU, to the current Brussels and to the direction to which Brussels is going. We were still involved in this EU model of economic cooperation to increase prosperity in all Member States, as free economy, free citizens, the idea of performance, a social system and healthy competition lead to prosperity and prosperity. We were there: in the EU Treaties and under the conditions under which we have voted positively on accession to the EU. This has changed a lot. Brussels is now turning into an invading institution, breaks EU treaties, is increasingly ideology driven, and in such a 3G union that is now emerging, we are not in it and we have a disrupted relationship to that. They have also discussed the issue of migration today – this is one of the many issues where the EU is not optimal in dealing with many things that still have to be done. Well, I'd say: Yes, the problem is not only unresolved, but the EU is particularly active where it operates in a very negative sense. It should still be better left to the individual Member States to deal with their own migration issue – I am thinking only of 2015, and of Hungary, which has actually been committed to really protecting the external borders in the storm of refugees, as well as of the EU treaties in accordance with the Schengen Agreement. This was opposed to the European idea as an EU enemy, and it is still being covered by the rule of law. If you say yes, you are also determined against illegal migration – I hope you will then go through it, you have to say that to your coalition partner – it is above all a question of making the trick in this respect – as already in the UN Migration Pact – that you simply drop the word illegally and then remodel it into a legal migration. Yes, if one no longer forbids third-country nationals entering EU soils, then one is already in legal migration, and then we will continue to see how this is really agreed in the EU Migration Pact and what role the ÖVP Parliamentarians play in doing so. Just as exciting it will be as it goes with the green pass. They are proud of it – Austria was a driver of this instrument, which, of course, also gives rise to the pressure of vaccination, so to speak, which I do not feel in accordance with European thought. With the green passport, a completely new fundamental right understanding has been introduced. They say this restores freedom of travel – freedom of movement was one of the fundamental freedoms we had in the EU treaties. Mobility to cross borders within the EU was, as it were, a central element, which will be eliminated with the green passport. It means that this applies for the duration of the pandemic – let's see! That leaves a lot of room open. They were still talking about economic strength, which is crucial for the success of the EU and the Member States. – Yes, of course, but I also see a contradiction when, on the one hand, one speaks the word of this reconstruction fund, which has now been decided upon, which you have agreed to and which should also be unique – let us look at it! – as well as, as has been said, the green pass, or that no one wants - -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e15773	Ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to remind you of the request.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e15788	Let's talk in two years, how it really looks! In any case, the strong economic strength is very strong in the EU Member States, and the Green Deal is not really conducive to the economy, I say, but it does not support economic strength. I have another motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[14:29]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e15917	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, it is properly put in place and is therefore also under negotiation. Michel Reimon is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e15942	Mr President. Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Some of the debates were, honestly, a bit too abstract, as if it were just a far-off issue. It really is really about things that concern us most in the next few years and in which we have to make massive progress. We have – an example I am grasping out – in Austria, just over 250 000 unemployed. The worst forecasts I know are that it could be up to 400 000 in autumn/winter. Let's hope this doesn't happen, but it's a scenario that's possible! In the euro area, there are currently 13 million, in the European Union 15 million, which can also grow, and all these unemployed, these men and women, are then in competition with each other, in a single market where workers can be moved and social and wage dumping can be carried out if this is not adequately regulated. This is a real political problem that we have in the Union. While the debate is taking place here in Parliament, the coalition, Minister of Labour Martin Kocher today presented a package against wage and social dumping, which contains steps and measures that we want to take against it. [[Abg. Lord: Minimum wage!]] This package was presented in June 2021. This was decided in the European Union 2018 in the European Parliament, and the discussion started in 2014. It is now going through all the national parliaments. Seven years from the start of the debate in the European Union to the decision at the national level in Austria: For so long workers in this country were not sufficiently protected. This process is unacceptable! This process as such is not possible! This should be improved, and this is precisely what this discussion is all about. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we want to do better, we need to get faster. Mr Holzleitner has made a very good speech today, as I think. As a Social Democratic, she spoke about how harvest workers and other workers are exploited here in Austria, and that is exactly what it is all about. It will be a delegate to this conference, it will go there and talk next year about how we will get together in Europe a faster and a better process. The fact that the four pro-European parties do not all have the same opinion on how we should shape the labour market in the European Union is one thing, but that if we are to make it better and faster in Europe, we should agree and agree. That's why I don't understand how it happened that we don't put it in the center anymore. Dear SPÖ, the light, tender side lift you have to allow me: I do not understand at all that you prefer to hold an hour's debate on the Rules of Procedure on the morning, instead of letting your colleague, as an employee party, talk about working conditions in the European Union and how we can make the situation better for the workers. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, you really did have a haxl. That's why we should all actually be. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If we are now working together for this, we are working on it for a year, we are now taking rapid action for a year and then the Europeans in general! To the haxl position I would like to come to one from before: I've got a call for order, quite rightly, so I'm not going to repeat it now, but you've got to go through it. If the FPÖ here calls for anonymous cash payments, I ask which FPÖ delegates has received an anonymous 10 000 euros without invoice last year, and then one shows, then I feel somehow asked to ask. If I hear on demand: It doesn't matter to you!, I have to say: Yes, Mr Amesbauer, we are concerned! You will have to make a declaration of transparency here until 30.6. You have confirmed that you have received 10,000 euros without invoice. Explain Please ask Parliament until 30.6., as it is, or come out and say that you do not know what you are talking about in Parliament!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e15997	Mr Michael Bernhard came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e16022	Mr President. Appreciate women ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I have followed the debate very closely, I have listened to all 17 previous speakers, and I really wonder what the world you live in. Today we are talking about the future of the European Union, but it seems that the past of the European Union is forgotten extremely often. They are talking about what things lie ahead of us as major tasks in the future, and we just now felt so painful in the pandemic, which freedoms have fallen away: that we could no longer travel freely, that we could no longer study freely, that we could no longer work freely, that many international projects have fallen away, that supply chains have collapsed, that logistics has collapsed. All of this already embodies the European Union. That is what we have to preserve first and foremost, and this is particularly true of the EIA, but also of the FPÖ in the parliamentary debate too often. I would like to join this directly. I believe that such a debate would have to be held much more often here in Parliament – this is missing. We should not hold such a debate on the future of the European Union even in two years, but probably every second or third month here, because there are so many misunderstandings that are then carried outside the House and contribute to the fact that the European Union's acceptance decreases from time to time. I would now like to address directly what you said, Mrs Edtstadler. You spoke of the European Way of Life we are proud of we can and we can export. In the past, the European model has been very much the social market economy, and a new component has now been added, which has long been in place in Sunday's speeches, but now becomes real political, namely the ecological element within the European Union: the eco-social market economy. If you look more closely at how the European Union works, what the tasks of the future are and what the Austrian contribution is, you have to say that the European Union itself, the European Parliament, the European Commission and the European economy are already working very well. It is not the parliamentarians in Brussels and Strasbourg who are slowing down European policy, but it is the national parliaments, it is the national governments that are on the brake. There are enough examples of this: The European Green Deal has very clear answers for biodiversity protection, for the regeneration of large areas of the European Union, but also for sustainable agriculture. What happened was that in the individual councils, among others, Minister Köstinger strongly got on the brake. It is said to be less reducing emissions, less organic farming, less sustainability. It is not the European Union, it is the Austrian Federal Government, and it is also the ÖVP! Of course, it is Poland with its coal industry and France with its agricultural industry, it is not only Austria, but Austria, unfortunately, often makes a very negative contribution to the further development of the European Union. I would now like to come to a second point, which is very important here: to these particular interests, which you always put to the fore, in which you ask yourself before a vote: Does that help the peasantry? Does that help the Chamber of Commerce? – If this is not the case, you will vote against it preventively once. This is exactly the kind of political work that does not help establish an eco-social market economy in Europe and make the European Way of Life export hit. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I would like to say very specific points here: At the moment we import fossil energy sources worth 300 billion euros per year. This is a value creation that we give out of hand and transfer almost where there are unstable regimes, where there are dictatorships and where all those values of the European Way of Life are not held high. It is a matter of taking a climate-neutral Europe seriously, and there are sufficient studies that indicate that 100 million new jobs will be created in the European Union and neighbouring countries by 2050. This contributes enormously to stability on our continent. And – that's very important – most of the investment is not through promoting the climate crisis, but through the economy. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] 90 percent of all investments in the European Union and in the world are made by a free economy, and with all these investments a climate-neutral Austria is supported. All of this should also be in the focus when we talk about the future of the European Union – not only small and small-scale. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign again.]] Mr President, I am already at my conclusion. I'm appealing to you: Have courage, have passion, fight for a Europe in the future that is free and not petty like the current Federal Government! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e16109	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Reinhold Lopatka, Mr Michel Reimon, colleagues on 'the EU Future Conference'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by the majority. [[180/E]] We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Susanne Fürst, ladies and gentlemen, on 'No to the Green Pass and a Child's Imprisonment'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[14:40:27]] 2. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on amendment 1581/A by Mr Mag. Jörg Leichtfried, Herbert Kickl, Dr. Nikolaus Scherak, MA, colleagues with regard to Prime Minister's loan in accordance with Art. 142 para. 2 lit. b B-VG against the Federal Minister for Finance (931 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e16185	We'll get to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. [[Abg. Cashier: To the Rules of Procedure!]] For business treatment? Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e16221	Mr President. We are now dealing with the item on the agenda - - – Now we are going! [[The floor microphone used by the speaker does not work.]] [[Calls:You don't hear anything]] [[Call the ÖVP: If you don't hear anything, it's failed!]] Mr President. Under item 2 of the agenda, we are now discussing a negative report from the Constitutional Committee on Minister of Finance against Federal Minister Gernot Blümel. We are surprised that the Minister of State is not present, and in accordance with § 18 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure a request for the creation of the Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e16275	For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e16299	Mr President. Yeah, the theater's going on. It's totally unusual - - – After what? [[Abg. Kickl: Hello! Here, I found it. He lives in Wannlake.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: The only one who makes a theater is you!]] It's been around all day. There is a completely unnecessary debate on the subject. [[Abg. Kickl: But you don't decide!]] In the Presidential Conference, we even made some progress, but no, it has to be applied, because between 12 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. we are unable to have a discussion of the way we have planned it. It's just a politic show! And now it goes on: We now have drafts from the Constitutional Committee, the Minister for Constitutional Affairs is present. It is also not the case in the Committee that the ministers against whom the charge is based are present. It is also unusual that they are present in plenary. Even in the last legislative periods, there has always been ministerial support, and it has only been very rare, in fact never the case that the ministers around whom it has gone are daily eating. These are submissions from the Constitutional Committee, and Constitutional Minister Edtstadler is present; therefore, this is another point of the Polittheater of the Freedoms.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e16368	Mr Leichtfried on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e16393	Mr President. I have to say now, I see this somewhat more differentiated than the clubman of the ÖVP. [[Call the ÖVP:Oh? That's a surprise!]] This morning we spoke a lot about respect for parliamentary democracy and for Parliament, and I say to you openly: [[Abg. Tanja Graf: The Constitutional Minister is here anyway!]] If it is a matter of ministerial support and the Minister on this ministerial basis, it is not worth coming to Parliament, it is incredibly disrespectful of this House, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Dear colleague Wöinger, it's not a theatre. This is about democracy, and it must be worth it to a minister that he takes time for Parliament. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If he does not have time, then he should ask himself if he is at all in the right place and in the right place, ladies and gentlemen! We would therefore support this request, Mr President. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e16452	Are there any further statements on business treatment? Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e16477	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Two weeks ago, I think, I gave a very clear speech on how Parliamentaryism and the serious taking of Parliament and the Constitutional Court and all these things are. Mr Leichtfried, I have to point out: Rudi Anschober was not present at the ministerial ceremony either, and it simply does not correspond to the use. There is the Constitutional Committee. You are rightly always poking at the uses, but it may not always be just like that if it is cheap for you, but it must also apply otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e16508	I can't see any more words. Mr. Kassinger has submitted the application for business treatment, which the National Council wants in accordance with § 18 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure require the presence of the Federal Minister for Finance. A debate on this request was not requested, so we shall be voting immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Jörg Leichtfried. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e16566	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I'll read to you at the beginning: “I promise that I will faithfully observe the Constitution and all the laws of the Republic and fulfill my duty to the best of knowledge and conscience.” – This was what Mr. Finanzminister Blümel swore at his fishing observation. What if you swear and don't stick to it? – It’s a pity, it’s sad, and it’s especially sad that in this country we are governed by such politicians, ladies and gentlemen, who don’t stick to what they once praised. [[Abg. Kickl: That's an oath!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Every politician and politician who is advocating the Constitution should be clear that it is with what blossoming has done, namely to break the Constitution, to break the laws, to disavow the investigative committee unlawfully, at some point enough, ladies and gentlemen valued. [[Call the ÖVP:Hello!]] [[Call to the ÖVP:... an understatement!]] It is enough with this kind of superiority, with this kind of prepotence and with this kind of disregard of the rule of law which Mr Blümel is running, and therefore there is also a charge before the Constitutional Court of Justice of all opposition parties, and that is good, ladies and gentlemen. [[In the case of the SPÖ, the members of the FPÖ and the M.A. Meinl-Risinger.]] That in the end even the Federal President almost had to become an executive, that probably says enough. I can now quote Armin Wolf, who has summarized this very well. He said: Mr Blümel, “You are the first Finance Minister to have a house search [...]. They are the first” Finance Minister to have “appropriate the Constitutional Court for an execution of the Federal President” and “they are the first Finance Minister to have a ministerial contribution against which the entire opposition together” This is for itself, ladies and gentlemen, and I should now like to address a question to the Green Group: What about you? What, please, is with you? [[We welcome the SPÖ as well as the Brandstätter and Meinl-Reisinger Members.]] You've come up with the dogma: The suit will choose green. – What do you think if you hold the rod to the flower, and if you do not even – I understand that you cannot agree to a request for distrust in a coalition – are in favour of the Constitutional Court being able to verify whether flower has acted unconstitutionally or not? – This is really unacceptable, you have to say quite clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ as well as by Mr Kickl, Mr Meinl-Reisinger and Mr Scherak.]] We still have a little time now. I'd say, Go inside and allow the institutions of this Republic to exercise their responsibility and decide: Did Blümel break the Constitution or not? We believe that he has broken them, and that is why it is time for him to go. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e16648	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Wolfgang Gerstl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e16673	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! A word has often fallen today, the word respect. With respect, I ask: How do we deal with each other, from person to person? How do we deal with each other between the parties? [[Call to the NEOS:The question is: How does the flower deal with the Constitutional Court]] What does democracy mean when there is a majority who chooses a Federal Chancellor and the minority does not accept it? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] What does it mean if a minority cannot put the Federal Chancellor across the majority and therefore use other means to bring the Federal Chancellor down? [[Abg. Kickl: That... he's himself!]] No, ladies and gentlemen, democracy is also a majority decision. This must also take note of the opposition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] When we speak of respect, Mr Leichfried and Mrs Miel-Reisinger, we are not only talking about respect for Parliament but also about respect for the Federal Government, and we are also talking about respect for justice. These three violences are equivalent to one another and deserve all your respect. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: What about justice? What about the Constitutional Court?]] I have a lot of feeling and a lot of support for the opposition in an investigation committee trying to exercise its control. But if this right of control is misused in order to simply find things that one does not know before, and then to celebrate publicly things that have nothing to do with the subject of the investigation, this is also a lack of respect for the task in the committee of inquiry. [[Abg. Matznetter: Yes, but you have to...!]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Matznetter]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I think we all need to find a new form of respect for each other. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Mr Matznetter, what you are saying is that many people are: They miss the respect we should have for each other. Then I'll be with you when you say: We look at: What happened? – Yes, Minister Blümel and the Ministry of Finance have submitted files too late. Yeah, it happened. Mea culpa or: We learned from it. All of us have learned from it, and it will certainly not happen anymore. But what I want to tell you and the spectators is: Minister Blümel has tried to get into a conversation with the opposition by trying to solve a delicate legal problem that results from the fact that the private things stored in a ministry that go beyond health data and other personal things have nothing to do with the investigation committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] He wanted to clarify this together with the opposition: How can the documents be delivered so that only what corresponds to the subject-matter of the investigation is delivered, and not what does not correspond to the personal right of each employee? There's the border, and you didn't want to get in there. Your access was: We go to the Constitutional Court again and get an execution application. That's how you contributed to escalation. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kickl, Mr Kuntzl and Mr Meinl-Reisinger.]] You would also have been able to prevent this escalation, but you did not want to prevent it, Mr Matznetter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Mr Matznetter: What about respect for the Constitution, Mr Gerstl?]] In any case, I would like to express my respect for the greatest economic aid he has provided for Austria in this pandemic, and for this upsurge with which we are going well again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Thank you very much from the Austrian Federal Government for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me come to my conclusion! [[Abg. Loacker: Yes, please!]] Obviously, the bad is more important to you in human beings. I quote now that Hildegard Burjan, who died 88 years ago, was the last and only parliamentarian to be blessed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Roll.]] Last weekend she had her day of death. She said, for her parliamentary work, it was important that she saw good in every person. – In this sense: Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e16858	Mr Michael Schnedlitz came to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e16882	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! What a disaster for the Turkish ÖVP, what a disaster for Sebastian Kurz – and with that, ladies and gentlemen, I do not mean the ministerial anchorage we are currently debating. It is just a small stone in a turquoise total mosaic, a mosaic full of embarrassments, full of false reports, a mosaic full of transparent excuses, a mosaic full of stones of inability to rule, most often seasoned – yes! – through a broad, friendly grin for the cameras, ladies and gentlemen. If only it was a matter of awarding a prize, an Oscar for embarrassment, if you want to, then the Minister of Finance would definitely win it: a Minister of Finance who works with alibinames like Danilo Kunhar and Alibi e-mail addresses – perhaps the last request for creation has not gone through now because we used the wrong name, ladies and gentlemen; I do not know – a Minister of Finance, whose laptop he supposedly does not have, during the search of the house Gassi goes, a Minister of Finance with memory gaps, forgotten zeros and co. These are the embarrassments. But if it comes to consciously spreading false reports and clear excuses, such as those of my previous speaker, Mr Gerstl, then it will be electrically, highly esteemed ladies and gentlemen. If you claim the Minister of Finance In view of the legal uncertainty about personal data, which the health data of the employees did not provide, Mr. Gerstl, it is simply a little daunting and then something else emerges – then it turns out that the Minister of Finance simply did not have the reason not to deliver this part of the data, the sensitive staff data; then he would have lost the excuse to pull the whole thing into the length, perhaps not to deliver the data at all, then there would have been no more possibility of screwing up the classification. So let's get it to the point! – you and this Minister of Finance have sacrificed the most sensitive staff data, health data and health data on the altar of turquoise party policy. That is disgraceful, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us talk about respect, Mr Gerstl. This shows the disrespect of this Minister of Finance, who does not come into the house, to his employees. But this also shows that you have no respect for the rule of law. You do not respect the Constitution, although you are grateful for it. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! They don't respect justice. They are not even afraid of discrediting justice and prosecutors. We all know: The Turkish Clique has no respect for media and journalists if they do not dance after their pipe. They have no respect for democracy, for Parliament. As you may notice, the turquoise mosaic slowly merges stone for stone. The worst thing for me, however, is that you have no respect for the Austrian population, in front of the Austrians, because you believe in your career mentality, you are something better because you believe, there is the Turkish ÖVP and there is the village and the rest of this country. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] But I'll tell you one thing: Before I attack you, I will be happy to stay on the floor and have me, together with the people in this country, call myself a mob. As we have already heard from Mr Leichtfried: They are the first minister of finance to have conducted a house search. They represent the first minister against whom the Constitutional Court has applied for an execution of the Federal President. – In all clarity: Such an acquittal and such disrespect and such a way of dealing with our rule of law has this republic, and it has not deserved people in that country. [[In the case of the FPÖ, representatives of the SPÖ and the Agg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This turquoise pile, from dealing with the rule of law to putting our country in general in rubble and ashes in recent months, is already big enough. Do you and your turquoise family a favor to this country and finally pull the consequences in all clarity. They are no longer portable for the Republic of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e16958	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Nina Tomaselli. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e16983	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Mr Gerstl, I can't see you now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl.]] - Ah, there you are! If you listen this way, you could somehow get the feeling that the investigation committee is unjustly looking with the magnifying glass in the most intimate drawers. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Gerstl.]] The opposite is the case. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] If you listen, Mr Gerstl – and I have made an extra effort to listen to the lines too – it is noted that for It seems to be relatively normal, which moves within a framework that is more likely to be rejected for others. I mention three examples: The Federal President must execute a VfGH knowledge. There are high-ranking judicial officials who have pressured courageous corruption agents – and this is proved by chats. There is a Secretary-General in the Ministry of Finance, who likes to obtain a salary from taxpayers, but who is exactly what taxpayers call the Pöbel. They have now talked a lot about respect and democracy, but there is no mention of all of this. My interpretation is that all these contents, which have also been demonstrated by the Committee of Inquiry, are not worthy of criticism, and I am very surprised. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl.]] Today, we are also talking about a causa that has not yet existed in Austria. The Parliament's highest supervisory body, the investigative committee, demands and does not receive files. The VfGH says the investigative committee should get it, but he doesn't get it. The VfGH says again: Supplies files! – The Federal President threatens to be executed; the files are thrown at the door and are still classified on top with level 3 secrecy. All these escalation levels, I say quite openly to you, are absolutely incomprehensible to us Greens, because it is a matter of course that one does what the supreme guardian of our fundamental rights, namely the Constitutional Court, says. No one, and really no one is above the law. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] For me it is also very clear, and this shows today's debate that there are still a few things that need to be explained, not least: How did it ever get to this classification in Level 3? That is why I think it is good for Finance Minister Blümel, even if he is not here today, to speak and answer at least next week in the Examining Committee. He's not here, but I suppose he'll be on the screen. Mr Finanzminister, if I may give you two things: In my opinion, for the Causa file delivery, an excuse would have been due a long time ago; and secondly: Take advantage of your third opportunity to prove a constructive approach to the Ibiza Investigation Committee and to answer the questions that most of the over 100 people have done so far! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] So first of all: Excuse me, and secondly: just make better and answer the questions – that would be right and appropriate from our point of view. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] You have talked a lot about respect and justice, Mr Gerstl. PS: The Constitutional Court – even if you repeatedly claim the opposite – has never required the provision of personal data, it has excluded this from the VfGH knowledge. And PPS, Mr Hanger – I think you cannot say it often enough, and you will still speak –: Please just leave the persistent attacks to justice! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e17069	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e17091	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! After Mrs Tomaselli's speech, I almost assume that the Greens will now vote in favour of this ministerial note. I'm excited what's going to happen at the end. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It is indeed a debate on respect for the institutions, as has already been rightly mentioned. On the one hand, I am very glad that Mr Gerstl has for the first time admitted here as an ÖVP representative that files were delivered too late. Obviously, there was an illegal behaviour when files were delivered too late. On the other hand, it is not the case, as Mr Gerstl said, that it was primarily a question of protecting personal rights. Mrs Tomaselli and Mr Schnedlitz have already mentioned this: Yes, of course, the personal rights and health data of the employees must be protected, Mr. Hanger, but you know exactly how long the call to Federal Minister Blümel has been that he provides files. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger]] Mr Hanger, you are sitting in the Investigation Committee, you know better than I do, how often it was required to deliver the relevant files. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Since January 2020, Federal Minister Blümel has been obliged to deliver files. He then, after doing nothing, was asked to deliver once again in March 2020. He also delivered, however incomplete. Then it goes on all the way up to the 13th. January of this year, when Federal Minister Blümel was set a time limit for him to deliver the files accordingly. He didn't do it again. ==References== The investigation committee then submitted the request to the Constitutional Court on February, which has also decided that personal rights are naturally safeguarded – and Mr Blümel has not yet delivered. Then there has been an absurd situation, which is quite unique in Austria, that one has to apply for the execution of the Federal President. As has been said so far, there was only once the idea of applying for the execution – under Jörg Haider, because he did not want to set up the town boards; not even he let it come that far. The ÖVP makes it come so far, it needs the recognition of the Constitutional Court that it can be executed, and it needs the threat of the Federal President that this is also done. This disrespect for the institutions, since the ÖVP has been short of power with Sebastian, has unfortunately become a reality. This is the problem you have with the institutions in Austria. [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] On the other hand, you have to defend yourself with all your strength, because it is not just about opening Pandras box – that has already happened, you have already done so –; if you don't wait, Pandras Box remains open all over. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] That is to say, it is a moral image; it is the way you deal with the institutions, how you act; it is your lack of respect for Parliament, it is your lack of respect for the investigative committee, it is your lack of respect for the Constitutional Court. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] They dance around the institutions of Austria on the nose – and on the other hand, you have to defend yourself with all your strength. [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] [[Abg. Hear: Scherak!]] The problem is: They do not take the control agencies and the division of violence in this country seriously. Whenever this happens, this is already a bit of an indication that government members are trying to take advantage of their own position of power, that they are more concerned about their own advantage or the advantage of third parties, that they are misusing their position of power and are more likely to take decisions in such a way that it fits the turquoise family – we know from the chat news how to talk about it – and we also have to defend ourselves accordingly. I want to live in an Austria in which it is clear to a federal government that the institutions in which a federal government confess itself clearly to the rule of law, to the rule of law and to democracy, and I want to live in an Austria in which all citizens adhere to laws, and in particular members of the Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e17186	The honourable Member is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e17215	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Introductory clarification: Of course, the Committee of Inquiry has a right to file delivery, which is not at all for discussion. I would just ask you to note that we have a legal framework that raises other issues. The Constitutional Court has given a kind of testate to the subject-matter of the investigation; it has found that the subject-matter of the investigation is entitled, it is only incredibly broad. You know my statement on this: It is a herb and beet committee in which we examine everything and everyone. That's fact. Of course, we take note of the decision of the Constitutional Court. [[Call:Well, thank you.]] – Well, but the right to criticize this must also be there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are living in a liberal democracy – it cannot be that everything has to be taken note of. On the other hand, we also have a new legal framework that the Constitutional Court has held in a knowledge: It is all that is “abstractly relevant”. One could even go further – once it even said: “(potential) abstractly relevant”. If, as a non-judicial lawyer, I ask lawyers what is actually “abstractly relevant” whether there are criteria for who decides this, then there is a great view, and everyone says: Well, no, we don't know. This is a new legal situation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] And there is a second aspect that I would like to stress in the same strength: It's about personal rights too. If files, documents are delivered and if they are private in nature, if they are involved in privacy, then this is just as about a right that we need to protect. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is already the central discussion that we need to hold. I should also like to ask the Constitutional Court to ask other lawyers to act more clearly so that these uncertainties do not exist. If I'm allowed to replicate the NEOS briefly: Mr Scherak, I think you have requested thousands of staff from Novomatics. The Data Protection Council has immediately said that this is not possible, and it will intervene in privacy. Please note! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] It is simply the fact that you act in the investigation committee with the most incredible methods, you leak documents of level 2, you break the right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Krainer and Mr Meinl-Risinger.]] – No, no, that’s a completely different situation, that was stage 2 according to the Information Order Act. On Wednesday you said: How we learned from the media!Use custom fonts; You even lied to the people because you knew that this leak is coming from you – and the next day you have to admit it. This is actually the actual scandal that happened in the committee of inquiry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] A brief replica on my colleague Tomaselli, I now, also in the sense of our coalition reason: My colleague, Tomaselli, I would really ask you to listen to me when I say something. [[Abg. Stögmüller: This is very difficult!]] I have not even attacked the justice standard, but I have allowed myself to criticise individual prosecutors in the WKSTA as well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tomaselli.]] By the way, we have done this in high professionalism. We have already made a statement on this subject at the beginning of May. [[Abg. Stögmüller: No!]] I am against this allegation that I have a flat-rate criticism, but it is very professionally well-founded, and I will not let that happen in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] Then finally, watch out! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Stögmüller: You only make flat-rate criticism!]] [[Further calls to the Greens as well as calls to the NEOS.]] – For the longest time, Mr Stögmüller! Finally, watch out for what happens, but obviously get You don't even have what we put on accents. That's what I'm writing to you in the master's book! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] I'm in favour of considering: On the one hand, the right to supply files must be fully respected, but on the other hand, personal rights are also protection of privacy. We also need to see this aspect. Finally, I would like to point out once again that, of course, the Federal Minister has made compromises to ensure, on the one hand, the delivery of files and on the other, the protection of personal rights. Of course, that was erased from the table, you didn't want to. That's what you see, it's not about information, it's about scandalizations, precepts, adaptations. That's all it is! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e17387	Mr Krainer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e17408	Mr President! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You've just seen a carnivorous nebula grenades that claim a lot of things that have little to do with reality. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I don't want to go into everything now, because the speaking time is too bad for me, but a few things have to be clarified. First: The Constitutional Court has made it clear that private property may not be supplied to the Investigation Committee. They are not delivered and they are not interested in us either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] Whatever Mr Hanger is saying here is wrong. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and MEPs of Greens and NEOS.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Secondly, Mr Hanger claims that abstract relevance would be a whole new legal framework. – He likes for They are new, for investigation committees it has been cleared by the Constitutional Court in 2018, and it has been clarified more than three years ago. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] This term has been clarified more than ten years ago in connection with the Court of Auditors. You would have to deal with legal issues a little bit, then it would not be unexplained and new for you, because it is clear and clear to everyone else in the Committee of Inquiry, not only for you and for Minister of Finance Blümel; for this it is not clear either. This is actually what we are discussing today. This can be summarized again: Mr. Blümel is 22nd. In January 2020, the so-called ‘principal evidence decision’ was first requested to submit files and documents to the investigative committee. He did this very, very limited. ==References== In March, he was asked again with the so-called 'additional' decision. He didn't follow him at all. ==References== An additional decision of proof on September 1, he said: There's nothing left! ==References== In November, there was another supplementary evidence decision, which specifically asked for it. He said there's nothing left. Then, as an investigative committee, we have on the 13th. Mr Blümel said a so-called Rüge – only to see how long this dispute lasts, how long Mr Blümel has really walked with the Parliament, the committee of inquiry and with it democracy and control. We've made a grievance. What did he do? - He ignored that again. Then we're on the 11th. ==References====External links== In March, the Constitutional Court stated: Minister Blümel is obliged to provide the files and documents requested by the Investigation Committee. What did Mr Blümel do? – He has given the instruction to an employee to print it out – stage 3 – which please enter it in the folder and lock it into the basement: We are waiting for us to be actually executed! Then, as an investigative committee, we had to return to the Constitutional Court to ask where the files and documents remain. ==References== In the history of the Second Republic, the first time, in May, the Constitutional Court of First Instance has for the first time put the execution on the neck of a minister in person of the Federal President. And then what did he do? – He called the Ministry of Finance and said: Go, give them the files and documents that are in the basement with us! – These were then slightly dusted in front of the door – by the way illegal, because of course they are not allowed to be delivered in stage 3, no longer to be read and processed at all. We then turned to the Federal President again. This has led to Mr Blümel's merciless beginning to deliver parts of it in the same way as they are to be delivered. I can say to the House today: To date, the Constitutional Court of Justice has been established from 3rd century onwards. It has not yet been implemented in March. Minister Blümel has not yet implemented this – not yet today! That's why we say: We want the Constitutional Court to finally clarify whether Mr Blümel adheres to the laws and the Constitution; he should clarify this in a clean legal procedure. That is the meaning of our proposal today. And what does the ÖVP do? – She makes Mr Blümel the wall, completely wreathing what Mr Blümel does. But with the greens, I'm very irritated. They once – they have said that themselves again and again – stood for propriety, for transparency and for control. If they vote against today, they no longer stand for control, for transparency and for propriety, but for cover, for eclipses and for making a minister the wall that has not really deserved it, namely one who has shown that he has no respect for Parliament and democracy, has no respect for the Constitutional Court and the rule of law, nor respect for the Federal President and the people. You should really consider whether you want to legitimize such behavior or not! I am afraid you will legitimise this, but it would be better for the Greens to let the rule of law work and to have the Constitutional Court checked whether Mr Blümel really does not violate the law and the Constitution all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e17510	Mr Gerstl has spoken about an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e17535	Mr President. Mr Krainer claimed that Mr Blümel did not provide any documents. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] I'm actually correcting: ==References== In June 2021, the Minister of Finance sent 26 137 emails and electronic documents as well as 12 077 pages in class 2 and 1 798 pages in grade 3.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e17574	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e17595	Mr. President! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I understand very well that Finance Minister Blümel does not appear here in plenary today to defend against this ministerial charge. He'll have thought: Well, if I don't even get the best time to send, I won't appear! A certain diventive character is said to him, so this is only a natural conclusion if even his own party colleagues do not want to give him a favourable time to send him. I advised Finance Minister Blümel at the last special meeting to always think well about who he can defend himself from. Two ÖVP representatives have already arrived here. Member of the Hanger comes up with a fight with the coalition partner, and Member Gerstl gives an arbiterable, meaningful speech and speaks of unfair means with which one would like to artificially meet and bring to the German chancellor, for example now with this ministerial support against finance minister Blümel – so to speak, an alternate war. All right, what's this about a ministerial loan? – It concerns Article 142 B-VG, the constitutional responsibility of a Federal Minister for the infringements committed by his duties. Now Member Gerstl is here as his defender and even admits that these violations have happened. So I can only say [[irradiated]] You need a defender like that! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Belakovich.]] In other words, he has just admitted that the ministerial loan is well founded and that the VfGH should actually be over it. Mr Gerstl then, of course, is still talking about the other incredible merits of our Minister of Finance, of the biggest economic aid in the EU; this is also so to speak, that – if the biggest economic aid in the EU has become necessary – a maximum damage has been done before. This is also not a very good balance for the Minister of Finance, nor for an economic party, as the ÖVP is famous. There are also no other merits, for example, in the approval of the reconstruction fund which we have already discussed intensively today, I cannot see its qualities as Minister of Finance, because it is not even clear which Member State will repay how much of this incredible amount of EUR 750 billion. But that's definitely what's already established: Austria will get less out than it pays. This would, in principle, be simple in invoices for the Minister of Finance, as one should at least have concerns before agreeing. Back to Prime Minister: Mr Krainer has now set out the procedure. There was the legitimate desire of the opposition to the Ministry of Finance to deliver files to the U Committee. Minister of Finance Blümel drew attention to the data protection that he discovered at one time and to the fact that the documents are too comprehensive. The Constitutional Court was informed in March, and the Minister was asked to deliver the files. Nothing happened until the Federal President threatened the execution in May. Blümel responded reluctantly to the order and delivered paperberge with a high level of secrecy. To present entire mailboxes of employees, also high employees in the Ministry of Finance, is actually a delicate thing. It is about e-mails from department heads, from officials, also about e-mails, which were written, for example, to Thomas Schmid – and from this one back. How delicate they are, we know that in the meantime. Of course, there can be random findings, and that should not actually happen to this extent, but – there is a great But – Finance Minister Blümel and his ministry have simply failed to justify which documents are not presented and which are already. Since this was not done, the Constitutional Court had no choice but to order the flat-rate presentation of the e-mail mailboxes, because the VfGH cannot select the documents according to relevance. Minister of Finance Blümel said he wanted to act sensitively. He was always talking about medical data at the Ministry of Finance. Are they so extensive? I mean, that wouldn't speak for his style as a superior now, but he's definitely very data-sensitive. With the Austrians in general, with the green pass and so on, these data are suddenly not so relevant. The line of defense from the Federal Government was also very interesting, even there we are again, that you always have to think about who you can defend yourself from. Federal Minister Nehammer said that Blümel held up the aspect of data protection, there was a fundamental right balance and that was very plausible. – Federal Minister Nehammer really always looks at a fundamental right balance even at all meetings. Minister Köstinger also says that this is a sensitive, personal data of employees and that the Minister of Finance has a duty of care. – Yes, but VfGH knowledge must also be implemented, as there is also a duty of care which unfortunately weighs more heavily if one has previously failed to provide an appropriate justification. Not least the German chancellor: It's difficult and delicate. In the case of data protection interests of employees, especially in the case of health data – which are particularly protectionable – applies Weighing it; especially in the case of these personal health data, we must be quite, quite careful. – I can only say that again and again: Aha, in the green pass, as he was originally planned, the total disclosure would have been necessary. Now you've gone back a little bit, but let's see what's coming, definitely, but everyone has to reveal their corona status. Minister of Finance Blümel concluded an interview with ZIB 2 on the issue of file delivery: An indictment, it won't happen. – I wish him, but I have just given the Chancellor: In judgment and on the high seas you are in God's hand.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e17668	Mr Krainer spoke on a personal reply to the actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e17692	Mr President. As part of his actual correction, Mr Gerstl has just put me in a bad style. I reply personally: He said I had claimed that the Minister of Finance had not delivered anything at all, and he listed what he had done. In fact, I have said that he has only delivered very limited and that he still has the knowledge of 3rd. It was not fully implemented in March. Unfortunately, that's true. In fact, it would also be your job to ensure that Minister Blümel finally implements the findings of the Constitutional Court and not just pretends to be doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e17722	The honourable Member has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e17744	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me begin by replicating colleagues Gerstl. They have said a lot of respect, respect for justice. Mr Gerstl, please address your own group in particular and, as an ÖVP, refrain from continuing attacks on justice. This also applies to attacks on individual prosecutors, Mr. Hanger. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Yes, the findings from the Committee of Inquiry, which are intended to examine the alleged ability of the turquoise-blue government, are anything but pleasant for the ÖVP. This Ibiza study committee was in the eye of the ÖVP from the beginning. We remember: Together with the Greens, an attempt was made at the beginning to keep the subject-matter as small and as close as possible. Yes, it is obvious that as far as the ÖVP is concerned, the lid still wants to hold on to it, since only the moral image, which provides us with many chat protocols from this turquoise family, is disdainful and disdained. It is understandable that the ÖVP does not want the population – or “the mob”, as we read – to know how it thinks about it. However, the Minister of Finance of the Republic, Minister of Finance Blümel, does not intentionally follow a decision of the Constitutional Court on file delivery to the Investigation Committee that the Federal President must first intervene in this Republic in order to remind a minister of the constitution he was promised, which is really a sad highlight of the ÖVP – and in particular of the Federal Ministers. Blümel – in dealing with our democratic foundation. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Brandstätter and Mr Scherak, for his support.]] To be honest, the subsequent delivery of emails in printed form in a level of secrecy which is not justified is another farce and a further disregard of Parliament and its control rights, which we must not let ourselves be liked if we take ourselves seriously as Parliament. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] No, Mr Hanger, it is not a matter of adapting, it is not about the evil, evil opposition against the ÖVP, the government or the Federal Minister of Blümel in particular. This is nothing less than a Finance Minister of the EIA and his dealings with the democratic foundation of our country, the rule of law and the Constitution. This approach, ladies and gentlemen, must be above all else. The vow that ministers solemnly make at their fishing ceremony is a commitment to comply with the Constitution and all applicable laws. This applies to all in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The right is the same for all, no one stands above the right, not short, not flowers or other members of the turquoise family – that is why we have brought in this ministerial credit. As a Parliament, we must not look or look away when a minister enters the rule of law with his feet. The Constitutional Court should now consider whether Blümel has infringed applicable law. The fact that ÖVP and Greens vote against this ministerial basis is also a sign that they are apparently not sure whether they would exist. This is a sign that it is quite clear and clear as we understand it: that there has been a consistent breach of the constitution. Minister Blümel has long spanned the bow. He's retiring. He should follow the example of Schmid and Brandstetter urgently and quickly. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e17816	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e17837	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Everything has been said about the ministerial support against Minister Blümel; it should be well-founded. We should give the Constitutional Court the opportunity to speak up. I would, however, like to take this debate, which we have now held, as an opportunity to address the problem a little more fundamentally. We are currently experiencing a so-called football event: 22 men, a green lawn, a ball. Why is this so fascinating to people? Why do many watch television and fever with it? – That’s because of that, of course, the whole thing works on the basis of rules. Without rules, it wouldn't make any sense. The game only works because these 22 players, who are in place, first know the rules, second, commit themselves to complying with these rules, and thirdly, there is an instance, namely, the arbitrator, which can suspect the breach of rules. We all, who sometimes look at football, know what happens when the referee is criticized. This has immediate consequences, there is a yellow or a red card. Football is a very nice metaphor for society: Our society also works only because we have rules – these are our laws that we make here – and because we basically agree to stick to them; and there is also an instance in our society that ensures that the rules are complied with and that it says if there are rules violations. What we have experienced in recent weeks, what has been communicated by the turquoise party towards justice, has not only been arbitrarily criticised, but the referee has been effectively remedied. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Tashner: This is a wrong picture you have, a wrong picture!]] You know exactly what consequences it will have if you stop the referee. You should consider this better, because you really do harm the community in a very massive way, if you make it possible for us to challenge this important instance of justice. Of course one may practice criticism, but as I said, what came from you had nothing more to do with criticism. This was the heaviest referee and is very pomped. This has led, among other things, to the fact that we are facing the situation today – and we must welcome this – that civil society has formed itself, that there is the idea of launching an anti-corruption popular desire, and we already hear who supports it all. This is beautiful, but it sounds very much like shawls, which are not very credible. Nevertheless: I invite all of you, people at home in front of the screens: Support You want this anticorruption people! ==References====External links== Unfortunately, in the Austrian year 2021, it became necessary that civil society leans against political currents, attacking the relevant institutions in a way that is already dangerous to our state, to our community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e17893	No one is reporting on this. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Then I shall put the vote as agreed at the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Constitutional Committee. [[15:35:47]] 3rd. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 1278/A by Mr Mag. Jörg Leichtfried, Members of the European Parliament on ministerial support in accordance with Art. 142 para. 2 lit. b B-VG against the Federal Minister for Digitalisation and Economic Location (930 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e17930	We come to Agenda item 3. There was no oral reporting. Member Christoph Matznetter has been reported to speak. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e17957	Mr President. Mrs Bundesminister, this is not really about you, but about Mrs Schramböck, who could listen to this. [[towards Federal Minister Edtstadler]] [[Call the ÖVP:Aha!]] In the Causa Blümel, we have discussed very clearly the functionality of the ministerial anchorage. That's not a martial. It is about the fact that an independent body, the highest court in the country, assesses whether it was unlawful or not. The current majority of the government closes the possibility for the Austrian Parliament to carry out this examination. I can remind you what it was about: In autumn, Mrs. Schramböck presented a department store in Austria. A few have already assumed that it is a real satire that takes place there, because: What absurdity should lead a government to go here and believe that it could set up a new Amazon?- Oh, my God! The embarrassment went on only when journalists tried to look for shoes there, for example. You know what came out? – A table tennis shop, once a miner and for the third time an alpaca hike. Honestly, this cannot make “the daily press” of Mr. Jergitch better. [[Call the ÖVP: Is nice!]] That's where the real satire overtakes reality. That would be all funny. The problem is just: The Austrian taxpayer was allowed to pay this whole cabaret. It was said that it was only 627 000 euros anyway. In reality, however, it was 1.26 million euros. But now it becomes less funny, but serious: If a Federal Minister, who is able to decide in a monocatic manner, spends 1.26 million euros on such a project – probably on the call of Fleischmann, Bonelli and as she is called by the Federal Chancellor's Office – even if she intends to make good wind for this government: This has to be re-examined legally. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It cannot be that the money of our taxpayers for a salmon number in this country is simply thrown out of the window, colleagues. They prevent the investigation by a court, and I also look at the Greens very seriously. It is important to consider whether to make this ÖVP the robber’s leader – quoted as Werner Kogler as an opposition member – for this project. A minister who puts 1.26 million euros into the sand for alpaca migration has the right – even himself! – that a court decides whether this project was the right one. Please decide correctly, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e18010	Mr Stocker is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e18031	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in this House, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen at home! Discredit, defamate, view, accuse – this is the program of opposition. Under this item, a ministerial anchorage will be negotiated, this time against Mrs Bundesminister Schramböck. Mr Matznetter claimed that a ministerial loan is not a martial one. On the other hand, we already want to maintain that a ministerial loan usually ends with the loss of office. This is already a bit very martial, Mr President. Nor is it enough to have an infringement of law, but it must be guilty. So these are heavy guns that are being shot up there. It is also worth looking at the basis on which these guns are raised. I should like to say one thing, Mr Matznetter, and ladies and gentlemen from Social Democracy: This basis is not only thin, it is thinner and thinner, and that is SPÖ in this case. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You accuse Mrs Minister that this project cost more than EUR 1 million. Read on – you were once in the government – how much money you have sunk, who has resigned and who has been accused, because then you will recognize the disproportionateness of this request! [[Abg. Hear: That's right!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can tell you one thing, and the people too should know what you're up to: First of all, you are concerned if the Ministry could have done so at all. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Only it didn't do that either. If you read about who did this, you'd see that was the Chamber of Commerce. Deduced from the possession of a domain or a medium that this is also the operator is simply wrong, because it is not that easy. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Secondly, you say that Mrs Minister's answer was incorrect because she called a sub-supplier who himself said he was none. The background is that there was an offer and an order. In good faith, the assumption was of course that it was then subcontractor. And that's what you're taking as an occasion for a ministerial loan. – Thin, thinner, SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The third reason is the usual criminal charge, because without a prosecutor you will no longer be able to do so in your policy at all. But I'll tell you one thing: Measured with your scale She probably never had a minister, at least not long – and opposition does not mean destruction.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e18105	Mrs Ragger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e18126	Mr President. The woman minister has now gone out. How can such an indictment of a minister be accompanied? You have to face up to what happened in this republic. It is assumed that all those who sit here are grateful to the Constitution and put their actions and works on legal basis. And then the following happens: A minister may do so with good intentions and, together with the Chamber of Commerce, undertake a project that basically represents an attempt to reflect a list of any sellers on the Internet, and then sell it as a department store in Austria. This has ultimately led to the fact that not only criminally relevant offences could exist, which is to be verified. You just have to give colleagues Matznetter right. There are also a variety of different violations of law. It is not enough for them to be subject to criminal or civil review. The legal basis should also be examined for its constitutionality. I'm telling you now what legal violations I'm thinking about. There is a criminal responsibility that within two or a maximum of three months 1.2 million euros have been reduced. Then you say so salopp towards SPÖ: You used a lot more. If this is supposed to be the moral image of this Republic, you have to ask where to start. If that is not supposed to be anything, if you have reduced only 1 million euros, it means that you can continue with it. I guess it can't be. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In what really happened, the Federal Ministry Act has not been complied with. An invitation to tender would have been justified, but the criteria for a call for tender have simply been erased, because in the case of services, the tendering obligation begins at EUR 100 000. From this amount must be registered; this has been ignored. The third point: Any criminal considerations have been disregarded. We are talking about the abuse of funding, the abuse of powers and the existence of acts. Infidelity. And as a further point, I can also bring civil offences to the meeting. If I were to represent a dealer, I would shoot the woman minister for what she has done, in competition with the sun, moon and stars, too, that should be considered. All of this makes it justified to think here today about a ministerial settlement, because it has really been made plump. That's real corruption in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e18171	Mr Ragger! Real corruption is a criminal accusation. I'd ask you to take it back, or I'll have to give you a call for order. Member of the European Parliament has been called upon to speak on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e18196	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear audience! The department store Austria has failed, so we must be honest. However, the objective of this project was very welcome – and I would like to express this – and we must continue to pursue this objective. What was the goal? – The aim was to strengthen local companies, local small and medium-sized enterprises in their digital presence and online distribution. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We know that more than 50 percent of the 8 billion euros of sales currently being made online migrate abroad and that domestic companies no longer benefit from it. This is due, among other things, to Amazon. Amazon is a company, an international group that, as we know – and this has also been discussed many times – hardly pays taxes, employees pay quite badly, not least the delivery staff and the competition. In this rather unfair competition, domestic companies hardly have a chance to keep up. We also know that Amazon sells everything, not just books; there are now even Amazon Fresh and thus the sale of food. The Covid-19 crisis has increased the imbalance between these global corporations, which benefit from all possibilities, and domestic businesses. Amazon has tripled its profit since the beginning of the Corona crisis. To support the local businesses in order to be able to keep up with them, I think it is absolutely important. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Hörl.]] So what do we need? – We need even more support from local businesses. For example, the investment premium to promote digitalisation was a very important approach. So much has happened. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] This also concerns SME e-commerce promotion. 10 million euros were spent this year in March and half spent. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This year, SMEs are providing EUR 5 million in digital form, and in the next two years, it is EUR 5 million each as it was last year. Today, the advisory services have not yet been fully exploited, but they have already been implemented. We see, therefore, that entrepreneurs are taking advantage of these offers. We have to put more money in there. More important to me is the E-ID. This is one way that customers don't have to reregister themselves completely with each different web shop, but just enter their E-ID number and then take all the data – and that data safe and convenient. We need to get into implementation quickly – I think the Minister is on it – and of course also with regard to corporations to return to it again, with real or at least more tax justice and thus more fairer competitive conditions. That's what we're working for.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e18265	Members of the Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e18292	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! The sad thing we have on the issue of digitalization is that we in this Parliament always talk about it when something has gone wrong. Now one could say that's because so little comes from the government. That's a problem. But the problem is that everything that comes from the Federal Government is going wrong. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This has not only been the department store Austria. This is the green pass that we are currently discussing regularly and that has gone wrong. That was the data leak in the supplemental register last year. That was the stop-corona app, which the President of the European Union then shot in his own hands. That was the platform Austria tested and that was the last abdominal stain at the department store Austria. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Of course, the list can be further supplemented. Then we have this department store Austria. It has been discussed a lot, and I still believe that it has been one of the biggest missteps of the Federal Government in recent months. Why? – We have the question: How does the Federal Government imagine competing with Amazon? – That was exactly the foundation claim. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] You've got to think about that very intensively. The ÖVP – the former ÖVP – wants to set up state-owned companies that are taking action against Amazon, which is absurdity at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] This is actually a purely socialist claim that the ÖVP has pursued. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Yes, of course we need to help retailers. But how did you do that? – This is what you have done with a platform that you have presented as the solution to all the problems. A few minutes later, it was thought that there were only alpaca tours there, and the whole thing for the proud sum of 1.3 million euros – 1.3 million euros that you just threw out of the window in the crisis, in the biggest economic crisis since the Second World War, as you say again and again, and that for something that can't do anything. There is a bad, missing search function – Mr Matznetter has already done this. It has been thoughtless from the beginning. It was not a plan from the beginning, except that President Harald Mahrer and Mrs. Schramböck stand side by side and say how great they can digitize. That's what we've seen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] You've seen all these things again and again – for example, I've been testing on the Austrian platform – how badly this was done technically. Do you remember the legendary performance in “Welkommen Österreich”, in which three or four students tested the platform Austria within half an hour? [[Call the NEOS:Yes!]] We could do exactly the same for the department store in Austria, and I say one thing to you: Then it would work better than what you did. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Then the highlight: What comes to it two months after this platform is launched? – Well, the federal government should never have done that. At the time, the Federal Government – which was very correct in holding the financial procuratorship – must not be allowed to do that. It cannot simply make such an extended company register. What did it cost? – 1.3 million euros for something you shouldn't have done, and then you make yourself up and say: Well, it was all great and we just wanted to help! and so on. That is exactly what you cannot do as a minister, and that is why this ministerial credit is also necessary. A minister must ensure that she is efficient in her place of business, and Minister Schramböck does anything but that. It cannot implement these digital projects. Tell me one that has worked in recent years! I don't think so. I think you can all ask, all of them will not receive a working digitalization project from Mrs Schramböck. The only thing she's done on this project is make a press conference, and that's something you can do well. I do not, however, think of a press conference even at the ÖVP, which cost 1.3 million euros and did nothing to the citizens of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e18375	Mr Minnich is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e18396	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear spectator at home in front of the TV screens! Today it's about something that really makes me angry. We are now dealing with a request for ministerial support against our Minister for Economic Affairs. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] You all know that we have now arrived at a very crucial point in this crisis. In the next few years, it will not be a matter of what measures have been affected or whether we have opened up two days too late or two days too early – no! – but in the next few years, we will be decisive about how we are now getting out of this crisis. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Dear Opposition, if you have something at our economic location Austria, please leave these embarrassing games and will finally satisfy your political responsibility! [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer.]] [[Abg. All right!]] What do we expect from an economic minister in such a crisis? - Yes, one initiative after another. [[Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff: That they don't cut 1.3 million euros out of the window!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Only those who try a lot have the chance of success. Through Go creates a way and not by stopping and building air locks. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Our government and our minister have this courage. [[Abg. Loacker:... try a lot too!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Instead of recognizing this courage, you have nothing better to do than make a request for ministerial support. Forging such an indictment shows your true face! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is a lot of courage to rule in such a crisis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] I am not envying anyone on the government bank for the last few months, but I am least envying our Minister of Economic Affairs and our Minister of Finance in such a crisis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] [[Cheerfulness with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I would like to expressly thank both of them at this point, thank you for not losing courage and focus at any time of this crisis, just as little as our entrepreneurs, no matter how loud and inaccurate the opposition has given themselves. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff]] [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] As a regional entrepreneur in Korneuburg, I have already tried countless things, and not always has everything worked, but I expect our Minister of Economic Affairs to do exactly this in such a crisis. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: No!]] It has made itself strong for our companies and their employees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] That's what we need now, that's what counts now. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Dear political competitor, a little less obsessiveness and a little more courage to acknowledge would be high in time. I think we have more important tasks to take care of now. Nevertheless, I wish you a nice day. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e18644	Mr Drobits is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e18665	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Well, if I hear from the government parties that the project has failed, and just as if I'm sorry to hear that the politicians who have failed this project are actually those who can be protected, then I think I'm in the wrong film. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lightness: Yes!]] How am I supposed to explain to all those who are released from such conduct or who have fallen into bankruptcy as managing director and who may be sentenced for negligent Krida or unfaithfulness? What are you supposed to say to them when you're acting like a play today? - Nothing. [[Abg. Matznetter: The Minister!]] It must be said honestly that Ms. Schramböck took office on 7.1.2020 and made a clear commitment to comply with the federal constitution and the legal regulations. As a member of the Federal Government, it is a head of the budget and is obliged to comply with the Financial Regulation. If it does not do this and violates the legal provisions, it is inefficient and, of course, responsible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Yes!]] It cannot be that I will receive a contract in June, July 2020 and the platform Kaufhaus Austria will be published in November, which will be closed after 70 days. 70 days, 1.3 million euros – this is a shame, and we must not allow it because all those who have worked hard in the final effect have their hard-earned money – including the system holders in the Covid phase – to surrender their tax money for it. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Fireplaces]] You fear, of course, that this will happen in the future. That is why we also believe that what Mrs. Schramböck has done is quite a digital total failure, it is a abdominal spot instead of a digital miracle. It is exactly what my colleague Matznetter and the colleague from NEOS have said: That's not responsible, and that's something that has been mercilessly exposed. Finally, I would like to say that what the Federal Government is doing and, above all, the Federal Minister Schramböck has done, is: She's announcing. The European Championship is currently in progress, and I hope that Austria will win tomorrow, but I am convinced that we are already European champions with regard to announcements. On the subject of implementation, however, we have remained small dwarfs. This ministerial annex is well justified, and I am convinced that the Constitutional Court will consider whether the competent minister has the responsibility to bear it. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e18744	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e18765	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I actually wanted to bring a book – “Process Management for Dummies” – but thought of me when I showed it, then someone gets it wrong and then it says again: [[Congratulations on Members of the NEOS]] He wants to insult someone! No, I don't want to insult anyone first. Secondly, Mrs Bundesminister Schramböck, who is unfortunately not there, can of course be very good English, but she can also digitize because she once worked in this field. So what happened? – I'll tell you what happened: That was, of course, not their idea, but, like so much, what this federal government is doing, it was a PR shame. There have been some PR people, press speakers, and they have said: Know what, let's make a department store Austria! – Good, department store Austria; and then they said: Mrs. Schramböck, do this! That's how it turns out, we know that from the chats. It is often not the ministers who choose to make fun of them: The liar has no idea!, we have read. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] They probably also said: Let's give it to him, it'll do it! That means she had to implement a PR project, but it was not feasible in the form. If you know the story of Amazon, you know, it wasn't a PR project, but people put themselves together, they wanted something and they did it. It must always be very big with us. I remember the photo when Mr Mahrer and Mrs Schramböck stood up and held a table in their hands. I have to say what's on it: “E-Commerce Charter for Austria”. – Below, that is, under a Magna Charter or something similar that goes into history, we don’t do it. “The e-commerce charter for Austria” – that was the beginning of the department store Austria, a month later the future zone of the “Kurier” wrote: “ Handicapped implementation, ” all you find, is “links directly to Amazon. ” – So much to the department store Austria. We are strengthening Amazon, which is why experts have That's a shame to domestic trade. Then it has become even worse, and that is why, I think, this charge or the calling of the Constitutional Court is correct. We have asked several questions to Mrs Schramböck – how this happened, who did it, who financed it – and there has been a lot of different, confusing results: first, just 600 000 euros, then it was said, the agricultural and forestry data center has done so, because the experts are known to sit there for e-commerce – they are responsible for paying farmers' money, is fine. Then they said: Well, maybe it was Accenture! - No, it wasn't. And at once it was twice as expensive. Mr President Mahrer was already mentioned, he first said that it costs 700 000 euros, and already on 1st. January, two months later, he said: “I should have looked at the project of the Ministry of Economic Affairs myself more closely,” they are to blame because “you could have done more about it. As a digitalization expert, I am annoyed by all measures. Well meant, unfortunately doesn’t always mean well done.” That's right, but there were two digitalization experts gathered, it meant well, and what came out, we see. And as so often – we learn from the Turks too –: It's always the other fault. Mahrer says she's guilty, she says Mahrer's guilty. The bad thing is, in the end, the “FAZ” wrote: “Whoever was looking for shoes got children’s clothing”, that is, we also have a damage to the economic location of Austria in our most important export country. If all of this is not a reason to look at it carefully, I don't know. It is bad enough to talk in Germany about attacks on justice, about the lack of our rule of law, but now we still have a problem with the economic location. That's what the Constitutional Court is supposed to look at. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e18832	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Then, as agreed, we shall put the votes to the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Constitutional Committee. [[16:06:12]] 4. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 1647/A by Mr Mag. Michaela Steinacker, Mag. Agnes Sirkka Prammer, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Disciplinary Statute for Lawyers and Lawyers, the Code of Law, the 1. COVID-19-Justice Act and the 2nd Act. COVID-19-Justice Act amended (926 d.a.) 5. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 1648/A by Mr Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, Mag. Agnes Sirkka Prammer, colleagues concerning a federal law on amendments to the Federal Constitutional Act, the COVID-19 Accompanying Act and the Administrative COVID Act. 19-Legal Act and the expiry of certain constitutional provisions (927 d.a.) 6. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 1649/A by Mr Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, Mag. Agnes Sirkka Prammer, colleagues with regard to a federal law that amends the Party Act 2012, the KommAustria Act, the Press Promotion Act 2004, the Journalistiksförderungsgesetz 1984 and the ORF Act (928 d.b.) 7. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 1699/A by Mr Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, Mag. Agnes Sirkka Prammer, colleagues in a federal law amending the Administrative Court Law and the Administrative Court Law 1985 (929 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e18927	We come to points 4 to 7 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Member Stefan has been reported to speak. The word stands with him. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e18954	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! You may have heard at the outset that there are several issues that are being discussed together. Most of these agenda items are essentially about extending the Covid provisional measures. That means: In the pandemic period, we have been given the opportunity to handle things differently in many areas than before, in the form of video conferences and no longer with personal presence. From the very beginning, we were very critical and also largely opposed, because we believe that, especially in court proceedings, in administrative proceedings, as well as in municipal council decisions and here in the House, personal presence is now necessary in order to be able to really clarify and decide seriously. Now this proposal is being extended again. This is also true in the case of the legal order, where videoconferences are also to be possible. You can discuss what might really be useful, where we can save ourselves in the future, to get together personally, because it is really not necessary. On other points, on the other hand, this requirement must very well be there. Let us honestly discuss and say what should go into the permanent right and what is not, instead, as now, to prolong an exceptional state, as if there were still a terrible situation in this country where one cannot meet and therefore must make court hearings best by video conference. That is the wrong way, and we therefore reject these points that have been presented. We have one last point, which is also on the agenda, which we voted against in committee. This is the administrative court procedure for restoring the previous status. This is where the Constitutional Court has a Provision repealed and given to the legislator the possibility that until 30. To be corrected on June this year. The legislator – the government parties say – has spent a very long time preparing a corresponding scheme. Now she's here. The countries that are also involved have introduced a number of amendments which have also been incorporated. From our point of view, this is ultimately a solution that we agree with. We cannot approve of the approach: first of all, we are only sent a so-called carrier rocket, i.e. an empty application, which is then filled very short-term, and that we are going into this situation at all. However, since we are content to do so, we will be voting in spite of this inadequate procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e18996	Mr Steinacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e19018	Mr President. Estimated Federal Ministers! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! Yeah, at the beginning of the pandemic, we probably had to act fast. Attention was paid to the defence of health risks and the prevention of economic negative effects. Of course, we also had to act relatively quickly to implement the necessary changes in justice accordingly. Covid-19 made it necessary for us to live Social Distancing, and of course this had to be put to justice and judicial authorities. Fortunately, many of these provisions, such as the suspension of deadlines, the support of loans or reduced party traffic, are no longer necessary, and therefore these provisions have expired. As you know, the vaccinations are progressing rapidly, the number of infections is going back rapidly and the economy can finally recover. Unfortunately, we will still have effects over the next few months and years, and therefore we will also extend the Entrepreneurship Fund for Entrepreneurs and the short-time work for particularly affected industries. In the field of justice too, we must and will extend some provisions by the end of the year in order to allow a good slide into a hopefully corona-free time. For example, there is the possibility to conduct negotiations, hearings and demonstrations in case of need by video conference. According to my knowledge and after the feedback we have received, the judges are now very careful to deal with this issue. You know very well when it makes sense to conduct a hearing, a hearing by video: if it is more formal from the content or only a very short time for negotiation. We give our Minister of Justice these possibilities by regulation in criminal proceedings law, and also, if necessary, in the judicial institutions – in the event that a new wave is coming – to make arrangements for visits by the end of the year. Furthermore, as we have just heard from our colleagues, we are extending the possibility for the Bars to carry out letter elections and to make votes online in the Bars and in the Disciplinary Boards until the end of the year. We are considering whether it makes sense to introduce some provisions into permanent law. It was reported to us by a number of sides that videoconferences were very, very well run, often long routes have prevented when the negotiation as said. It was very short. For us, of course, the principle of immediacy, which I would like to address to Mr Stefan, always has priority in principle. Tags, which, for example, only define a process program, could be done by video in the long term. I think it makes sense to enter into a good dialogue, to hold a discussion process involving those concerned in order to check what is possible from a constitutional point of view and what makes sense for a well functioning judicial system in the long term. Unfortunately, the pandemic itself is not over, even if the numbers are falling. There are mutations, there are variants. These provisions are necessary, and we will therefore vote accordingly. I would ask for the widest possible support for these sensible extensions for slipping into a corona free time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e19069	Mrs Ragger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e19090	Mr President. Estimated Minister! I should like to express the remarks made by our party on Agenda items 4 and 5, in particular for the first and the second items. COVID-19-Justice Act, in which we consider, in principle, that we should also contribute to it. But one thing is clear to us: that these sunset clauses, which are repeatedly prolonged and are ultimately delayed out at the end of the day, are actually overdue. It is no longer acceptable to put them to work, but it is about putting them into real, real legislation – because I think it is no longer understandable that, for example, day statutes, meetings of creditors, insolvency proceedings are not, as already, transferred to the existing law. In the field of administration, but also administrative rights, I can take an example and criticize one of my personal concerns: For example, it has become a fashion to convene municipal council meetings only more with a certain majority, no matter what coalition or party it is now. One then makes a video convocation of the various municipal councils, forgets a few, and if the others who do not belong to the respective majority party in one municipal council have not come, the decision-making will nevertheless be carried out. I believe that this leads to a very, very serious and dangerous gap in the system of democracy and the rule of law, and therefore I simply believe that we should put these prolongations to the final stage, but now that we have to discuss them in the individual areas – justice, the Constitutional Committee – so that at the end of the day they can also be found in the individual laws. Our group will therefore reject these two amendments. We very much hope, however, that in the course of the course of the course of the judicial committee, we will have the opportunity to address this whole issue in a contentious way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e19124	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e19145	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Of these applications, an application – TOP 5 – requires a constitutional majority. Although all changes concern administrative processes and opinion-forming processes and are actually formal in nature, they are nevertheless involved in the fundamental rights of the Austrians. The COVID-19 Justice Act allows for hearings and oral negotiations via video conference, as well as circulation decisions should remain possible. Two aspects must be taken into account: on the one hand, the principle of personal procedure and, on the other, the protection of health. The spread of Covid-19 in Austria is declining. Despite a mostly positive development, there is a question mark about the danger, and the possibility of a new spread of Covid-19 must always be kept in mind. The delta variant, which spreads rapidly in the UK despite excellent vaccinations, is particularly breaking in the head. We see, as a whole, that there can be no question of a warning. An extension of the measures is therefore important and will give us the necessary room to react immediately over the next six months. Meetings, negotiations and meetings of creditors in execution procedures are still possible by video transfer, but this possibility expires in June. On the other hand, all other measures – for example, the freedom of charge to grant to the Maintenance Committee, as well as the permission for municipal councils to take decisions by video conference – have a period of validity until the end of the year, which was extended. In the Council of Ministers and in the ORF, it is also possible to take decisions by video conference. We will therefore also give our approval to these requests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e19187	Mr Prammer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e19209	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Honourable spectators, which you can finally be here again in the High House at last! The infection is falling. Many measures can be taken back, and everything feels very normal again. This is very good, and I also really hope that this will continue and we will continue to be so good at it, but it does not have to be. In order to be prepared for any cases, we need to extend the measures once again until the end of the year. It has already been said: To ensure that this is also possible for negotiations and meetings in the insolvency and insolvency proceedings, I would like to make the following amendment, which I read literally for formal reasons: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the ÖVP.]] Then I can come back briefly to what several previous speakers have already said in the debate: There are already a number of regulations that should be considered in order to bring them into permanent law. Much is easier, much more comfortable, much more is done for the parties with more comfort. But we must not forget: We have decided on these rules out of an emergency to maintain a farm in the administration and justice during a lockdown during a phase of the exponential spread of the virus. That is, to a certain extent, many of these provisions also restrict the rights of parties, the immediacy of the procedures. It's not easy to deal with. That is why there is not simply an extension here, but it is really important that we look at it calmly, that we take all those involved and all involved into a discussion process, and then it will be certain that some of it makes sense, but many of it is not allowed if there is no pandemic in this particular situation. We are very happy to look at this together. I'd be very happy about this process. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[16:22]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e19355	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The word stands with him. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e19379	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear guests at home in front of the screens! As far as the content of the whole is concerned, I can largely agree with my previous speakers, particularly Mrs Steinacker. The measures we have taken today needing legislative intervention are quite useful, and it makes sense to extend them all again. Since I still work as a practitioner, I have had enough opportunity in recent months to experience the immediate trial, which means negotiating with mask for hours. I would like to take the opportunity here, and in general I would like to thank the judicial administration and the judiciary very much, and also very much for the way in which the challenges for the court have been met in connection with this pandemic. This is not a matter of course. On the one hand, the continuous claim is that the right to resolve conflicts must be spoken of as people are waiting for decisions. On the other hand, it was true that the requirements of this highly infectious disease were to be met. This has mastered justice very well, and this deserves recognition. Of course, what I have to critically mention is the way in which mandates have been made available to us the basis of decision on item 7. It really shouldn't be a school. We have the corresponding Do not receive documents 24 hours before the start of the meeting. However, this does not change the fact that it is acceptable to do so. If we are talking about it and considering introducing individual provisions into the permanent right, we are naturally quite constructively opposed to this initiative. However, it will be necessary – and this is also a suggestion to the Ministry and to the Minister of the Federal Affairs – for us to carry out an in-depth evaluation of the measures and many things that have happened there – where has the court worked particularly well, where did it bother, where was it difficult? – so that we can continue to make distance negotiations in those areas where we are told that we can continue to do so by means of electronic communications or videophones. However, we should not go beyond the goal, because, in terms of truth-making and decision-making, personal presence is, of course, essential. In this sense, we will agree to this package of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e19422	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e19443	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the house and in front of the screens! In the last one and a half years, we have made many decisions. In order to maintain the ability to act at all levels of life in spite of the pandemic for the benefit of people in our country, we have made decisions that were entirely, very important, we have taken these decisions quickly and we have also closed at the beginning. What is available for decision-making today has already been explained by my previous speakers. It is about extending deadlines and using video technology and circulation decisions accordingly. As mayor, I can refer to the impact and opportunities for the communities and give some explanations. Videoconferences of the collegial bodies, the municipal councils and the municipal councils, were legally possible, and the involvement of these institutions and decision-making on circulation decisions were possible, of course, in view of the fact that they were absolutely necessary due to the corona pandemic. What was it about? – It was about not being able to paralyze municipal work through the pandemic and to continue work in the interests of citizens. [[I should like to congratulate the EIA and the Deputies of Disoski, Fischer and Prammer.]] We all know that these measures are no longer so necessary at the moment. Why? – The numbers are right, and the way is right. As in all other areas of society, we can also consider whether mechanisms that have been applied positively in the course of the pandemic could also be transferred to permanent law. For example, I can imagine that meetings of the board of directors can be held alternatively or in addition by means of a video conference under certain conditions. I am more reticent about the municipal council meetings. Why? – Because the people in particular are also invited to participate and in the future must also be assured that the transparency of these decisions is in line with There's room. It is therefore necessary for me to see what possibilities there are. Ladies and gentlemen! I have already mentioned it, as have my previous speakers: The time has come to think about what positive experiences we can take into the permanent right. Especially valued spectators, let yourself be vaccinated! Only in this way can we fully address our actions and actions in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e19497	Mr Berlakovich has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e19519	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Singer has referred to the legal aspects of community work, and I can refer here to the enormous importance of the communities particularly in the Corona pandemic. Once again, the communities and cities have proved the key role they have in our society. When it came to providing alone people in the lockdown, caring for sick people, bringing them medications or food, the communities, the councils in Austria, have often made their hands and have helped to work together with many volunteers. And for that, a warm thank you is due to the churches. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In the big cities it may not be so, but in the small rural communities the community is in truth like a large family: If there's a man in need, go to the mayor or mayor and ask: Help us organize something! Therefore, it was and is important for the communities to be operational. They have been given additional tasks, for example – I can remember – when suddenly the workers coming from abroad to Austria had to show tests. It was true, for example, that the municipalities built test roads in Burgenland because the capacity in the country was insufficient. There, too, communities have taken on a central role in ensuring that hospital staff, the nurses, the caregivers who have come from abroad can continue and can carry out their important activities. Of course, the communities have lost a lot of money due to the loss of tax resources; the federal government, the countries, but especially the municipalities. How significant the investments of the communities are, has shown a study that was carried out a few years ago: The Austrian communities – except the city of Vienna, which also invests a lot; but it was about the other municipalities – have invested a total of around 3 billion euros and thus secured 40 000 jobs. This shows the great regional importance of the municipalities, and therefore the Federal Government and we here, the High House, have decided two municipal packages: the first municipal package in the previous year amounting to 1 billion euros for necessary investments in the field of general care: in senior institutions, in kindergartens, in schools, in infrastructure. In addition, because there was criticism that the municipalities could not vote financially, a second package amounting to 1.5 billion euros decided by which there are 100 million euros, in particular for the weak communities and advances on income shares. or an increase in the share of income. This money is urgently needed by the communities and they have also made it useful. I can mention a few numbers: So far, some 1,500 municipalities have submitted applications for the two municipal packages. 4 500 applications were approved and some 600 million euros were paid out. In Burgenland, for example, 31 million euros were expected, 26 million euros were already requested, including 3 million euros for kindergartens. The municipality of Neckenmarkt has made a kindergarten building to build a pedigree. The municipality of Eltendorf has invested in the reduction of structural barriers so that people with special needs can take advantage of offers from the municipality. The municipality of Oberwart has invested in sports facilities and leisure facilities. – This makes use of the regional economy, which is good for jobs in the region and this ultimately uses total Austria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e19576	Mr Fürlinger is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e19597	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I submit a request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am saving myself because of the large size and because I only have 3 minutes of speaking time. In addition, colleague Sirkka Prammer has already decided on the quick-reading competition today mercilessly. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is the implementation of a knowledge of the Constitutional Court, which provides more structure and transparency in the administrative procedure. It's something very simple: Until now, a party, a party representative, was not known where he had to make additions to his complaint, where he had to file applications in the appeal proceedings, because he never knew where the complaint was right. This is a crucial point that we are now addressing: Then, when a first instance authority submits the appeal to the appeal court, the second instance, the party receives a written understanding and knows that all entries have to be submitted to the instance court from then on. This brings transparency, it brings structure and this helps party representatives, party representatives, as well as the parties in the administrative procedure and in the judicial proceedings. In this sense, I kindly ask for your consent. Thank you. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[16:35]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e20207	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[16:36:12]] Vote on agenda items 2 to 7
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e20234	We shall now proceed to the votes moved. I should first like to ask whether we can enter the voting process. - Yeah, it's wonderful. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Proposal from the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 931 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Proposal from the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 930 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask him again for a sign. – This is the same majority, therefore majority adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Design of a federal law with which the Disciplinary Statute for Lawyers and Lawyers, the Code of Law, the 1. COVID-19-Justice Act and the 2nd Act. COVID-19-Justice Act are amended, in 926 of the Supplements. Mr Steinacker, Mr Prammer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. The honourable Members, Mr Steinacker, Mr Prammer, Mr President, have tabled an amendment or amendment concerning the amendment of the title and the insertion of point 1a and the amendment to point 4 of Article 3. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, accepted. Finally, we come to the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on and received in the version of the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, I can ask him for a sign. – In turn, this is accepted in a multi-vocal way. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading, I ask him to demonstrate that. - Same voice behaviour. That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Draft federal law on amendments to the Federal Constitutional Act, the COVID-19 Accompanying Act and the Administrative Law (COVID-19) and the expiry of certain constitutional provisions, including title and entry into 927 of the Supplements. Since the present draft law contains an amendment to the Federal Constitutional Act as well as to the Constitutional Provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. - That's the case. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this draft law at third reading, I may ask for a sign to be given it. – That's the same voice. That is why I expressly note the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Agenda item 6: Draft federal law, which amends the Party Act 2012, the KommAustria Act, the Press Promotion Act 2004 and other laws, including title and entry into 928 of the Supplements. Whoever is for this, I can ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading, I ask for a sign. - Same voice behaviour. The draft law was also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Draft federal law amending the Administrative Procedure Act and the Administrative Court Act in 929 of the Supplements. Mr Hiezu has tabled an overall amendment tabled by Mr Gerstl, Mr Prammer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I will proceed in such a way that I will first vote on this draft law as it stands in the version of the amendments as a whole. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this draft law, together with the title and receipt in 929 of the supplements, as amended by the amendments tabled by Members Gerstl, Prammer, colleagues, and others, to give the same sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Who is doing this in third reading? - Same voice behaviour. The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. [[16:40:47]] 8. Point Report by the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth on Amendment 1701/A(E) by Mr Barbara Neßler, Mr Norbert Sieber, colleagues, on the further development of the mother-child passport to a parent-child-pass until 18. (a) the age of the child and the age of the child; (b) the age of the child; (c) the age of the child; (d) the age of the child; (d) the age of the child; (d) the age of the child; (d) the age of the child; (d) the age of the child; (d) the age of the child; (d) the age of the child; (d) the age of the child; (d) the age of the child; (d) the age of the child; (d) the age of the child; (d) the age of the child; (d) the age of the child; (d) the age of the child; (d) the age of the child; (d) the age of the child. Amendment No 1330/A(E) by Mr Michael Bernhard, colleagues in relation to parent-child-pass (868d.B.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 10. Point Report by the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e20436	We now come to points 8 to 10 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Wimmer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The word stands with her. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e20464	Mr President. Ministers! High house! Values Advisors! The mother-child pass is a health pass for the important phase of pregnancy, birth and the first years of life of the child. He is a huge achievement and serves exclusively to verify the health of mother and child. It is therefore particularly important to us as a SPÖ group that the protection of mothers and children is so important. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Sieber.]] This must in no way be softened. That is the condition under which we agree to this request. Yes, family models have changed. There are patchwork families, rainbow families, same-sex couples, single parents and – thank God – more and more partnership in the division of family tasks. New family models require rethinking in family policy. That's why we keep our trust. not against further development, nor do we depend on terms when a further development of mothers, fathers, parents and children benefits us. Ladies and gentlemen, it must not only remain in the event of a change in the title! It must happen a real, real development! Regularly checking the health of our children is important and correct. ==References====External links== However, the corresponding therapeutic and medical services will also need years of life. It's about the physical and mental health of our children, it's about dental health, it's about nutrition, it's also about the protection of violence and so much more. The cooperation with school doctors, counsellors and therapists is an important prerequisite for this, because, of course, after an examination and a diagnosis, access to the necessary treatments must be possible. But there is also a need for more cash offices in all areas so that the health of children does not depend on the financial conditions of the parents. It is now often difficult to find a specialist who is not an election doctor and thus is paid again. If with the further development of the mother-child passport – or then new: parent-child passports; what I would like much better would be a family passport – and we will need the offers in advice and care – and we will need them – a real development has happened. What we certainly do not want is deterioration in the protection of mother and child in the so sensitive phase of pregnancy, childbirth and infant age. Whatever we do not want is a social passport that gives information about the social situation of the family. What we want is that everything is protected by data protection law, especially with regard to the plans for an electronic parent passport. Dear government parties, only under these conditions do we agree with the request for the further development of the mother-child passport. I have already stressed it in the Committee: We know exactly what we want and what we don't want. The quality of preparation, the willingness to finance and the details will show whether it is a real development. We're going to look at it very carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e20518	The Vice-President is hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e20539	Mr President. Minister! High house! We debate the further development of the mother-child passport to the parent-child pass, and a look at the application clearly shows what it is all about. The mother-child pass aims to ensure that all pregnant women and parents of infants benefit from the opportunity to provide the best possible care for mother and child and that this offer can be used. That was the case so far, it is now, and this should remain the case in the future. Dear Mrs Wimmer, all your reservations are certainly justified, you will be accompanied by it. We said: It is the start of a further development involving the relevant stakeholders, and we will be able to bring together all our demands and ideas from the new parent-child-pass. But because the mother-child pass so far was such a success model, it is also worth looking at the history of this pass: In 1974, launched by the then Minister of Health Leodolter, it was simply child health and mothers' health, which was in the foreground. The mother-child pass was a full success, because the infant mortality could be dramatically reduced and the danger to the pregnant or to the young mothers was accordingly reduced. Ladies and gentlemen, the valued Minister Leodolter is no longer alive, but a companion of hers, namely the then Secretary of State in the Family, Elfriede Karl. I was able to contact her and have a conversation, and I can tell you: The former Secretary of State Karl lets us all greet and is proud that the project that started at the time by her and Minister Leodolter, but which was also decided together across the party borders, was so successful, so blessed for all of us and that today we can advance further development. Personally, I'm glad we do this together. I think that is the most important thing about this request. An important statement by Prof. Leodolter, the son of the then Minister, reads: In no area of human medicine has progress been made in the last 40 years as much as in the field of peri- and neonatal medicine. – In no area were we as successful as there. That is why we have to do everything we can and it is our stated goal that we will continue to bring together exactly what you have mentioned, bring it into the negotiations, and also make the future family-child-pass or parent-child-pass a success model that it has already been. [[towards Abg. Petra Wimmer]] I am personally glad that we take this step together, that we are developing the health care of children up to the age of 18. ................................................................................................................................................................ I believe that this brings with it a quality that is important and meaningful in today's new society. I would like to thank all the political groups once again for supporting the request and I am looking forward to the corresponding negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e20591	Mrs Mühlberghuber has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e20612	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already mentioned the success story of the mother-child passport; I would like to stick to it and confirm it. The precautionary examination has done a great deal for the health of children and those who become mothers, and the mothers and children have thus benefited greatly. In principle: a yes to the development of the mother-child passport, therefore also the approval of this request, which we have already agreed to in committee. It is funny, however, in this proposal that EIA and Greens call on the government to implement the project quickly under the government programme. You don't seem to know yet that you are yourself. So it's funny that you make this application yourself. Yeah, let's take a look at the extension of the mother-child passport. We will look at exactly how the obligation to complete the measures provided for until 18. He's a year old. What does that really look like? Is there any sanctions when a youth fails to comply with the advice or investigation? Will youth sexuality also be a topic, will it be included in this revision of the passport? What about the first gynecological examination of the girls, will this examination also be in the pass in future? – In particular, pregnancy and contraception are a major topic for young people, not only for the Austrian young people, but also for those who stay with us in Austria, who are native or live with us. The issue of drugs and addiction is equally important. In general, young people get younger and younger when they get into the drug, experts speak of 13-, 14-year-olds. Summary: In principle, yes, we are in favour of further development of the mother-child passport, it is intended to promote positive aspects beyond the infant age. However, as soon as this development and development is in place, we will assess whether the passport is really adapted to the health and development of our children and young people and can be implemented above all. On the two SPÖ applications concerning ‘Family advisory bodies at the limit’ and the uniform protection of children in Austria and ‘uniformly regulated funding of child protection centres’: We support both of these proposals, as we have already seen in the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e20657	Members of Parliament have been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e20679	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Allow me at the beginning, Federal Minister Raab, who went on Monday in mother's protection, to wish everything good for the coming birth! [[Congratulations on Greens and ÖVP and President Sobotka.]] Ms Edtstadler will represent her. – I am looking forward to working together in women’s and family affairs with you. Today, I am entitled to take over as an alternate for our family spokesperson Barbara Neßler, who would certainly have liked to speak for himself about the success of the parent-child passport. What we agreed on together with the coalition partner in the Government Agreement, there was – we have already heard – an all-party decision in the last family committee. – Thank you for that! What have we decided? – The further development of the mother-child passport to the parent-child pass. The aspect that has been most discussed in this context is that of a change of name, namely to a parent-child-pass. We know that language creates realities, and the social realities have changed dramatically since the introduction of the mother-child passport in 1974. Families and parents have changed, as well as role models have changed. With the change of name, we respond to these changes by making them clear in language: The health of a child is the responsibility of the parents and not exclusively of the mother. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, more central than this change is the further development and expansion of the parent-child passport for us. The already existing protection of the child and the mother – Mrs. Wimmer, I would like to calm you – will naturally be maintained. In addition, the inclusion of midwives should also be strengthened. With the extension of the parent child passport until the 18th century. We also want to achieve better health care for children and young people. Especially the Corona pandemic has shown us that, in addition to physical health, we must focus on mental health. We know that mental illness in children and adolescents has increased to a truly worrying extent. Sleep disturbances, depressions, overload symptoms – various organizations, such as wire advice, have presented us with truly alarming figures. It is all the more important that we address this long taboo topic of mental health in children and adolescents now, and there can really be a great opportunity for the parent-child pass. The mother-child pass has been a real success since its introduction in 1974, we have already heard from colleagues Sieber. Thus, on the one hand, the health of mother and child has been ensured, and on the other hand, child mortality has been drastically reduced, which was good. Almost 50 years later, however, it is time to reform the passport and adapt it to the realities of the present. This way we will also go with experts. It is also clear that I would like to stress - - listening is obviously difficult today. [[Unrest in the hall.]] – It is also clear that this passport will be developed in compliance with data protection and, of course, should be available in its final version in digital format. Finally, on the two requests from the SPÖ, which we are debating here: On the one hand, you demand the increase in the budget for family advisory services, but you have forgotten in your request to mention that it was under your government responsibility that these family advisory services have been broken down. That was under your government responsibility. – colleague, you shake your head; look, the numbers speak a clear language! [[towards SPÖ]] And what you have not done, we will now do so by increasing the budget of the family advisory services by just under EUR 3 million and also by setting out the annual increase. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] In conclusion: In addition, in a second request, they call for the uniform framework for the financing of child protection centres. If you want such a one, why have Do you then agree to a change? – This is not a matter of any kind: by request of a change of country, but by request of a federal uniform framework. I think the SPÖ doesn't know exactly what it really wants. All the better that the Federal Government knows; that we have taken on responsibility, respect these and have also increased the funding of the child protection centres accordingly. – Not just demanding, but doing, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e20760	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e20781	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Seers! The family advisory services and their funding are now really a permanent burner, since I have been a Member of Parliament. A look back: It was 2017, we were no longer in government responsibility, but there was a turquoise-blue federal government that cut down the budget of the family advisory services. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disoski.]] That was really a problem, and only the cry of the roof bandage. As well as a genuine Community commitment, 50 percent of these cuts were then compensated again from the budget resources of the family resort. However, the original amount, which was available before the cuts, has not been budgeted since then, and after a year of corona pandemic, the family advisory services – we all know – are really under-financed chronically. There are 385 family advisory services, a quarter of a million people are accompanied by them and half a million consulting hours are completed. The employees are overburdened – I think we can really see that. They are overburdened after a year of pandemic, which is also completely logical, and a sufficient budget would actually be a command of the hour. If I hear that these millions are now being taken out of the violent protection package for the family advisory services, I can only say one thing: Victim protection institutions are criticizing this, because family advisory services do not only provide for violence protection, and that is really the case! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disoski.]] Mr Disoski, I am entirely with you when you say that the psychosocial consequences of the crisis have to be addressed. We have, honestly, already called for a lot of, much more often in the past year, it just hasn't really happened until now. I believe that only the openings will not be enough, but we must also work out what happened last year, and that is why the advisory services have to be extended in fact, and there is a need for sufficient support in order to really reduce the psychological impact. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Sleep disturbances, depressions, loneliness – all these are problems that affect people, and they cannot be remedied because there is simply not enough supply. With this request, we would have called for 18 million euros for the family advisory services. That is also the amount of what the family counsellors themselves say, with which they could have half a good budget and get over the rounds. This amount will also be committed in the next few years. Current: The contribution from the package will have to be used up for long overdue valorizations. This means that there is no way to expand the consultation, but it is simply a matter of valorization which has not been possible in recent years due to the budget cuts. I believe that this 18 million euros – at least – should be worth our families and their support. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What really excited me at the last committee meeting: There have simply been such clear arguments when these applications have been rejected or others have been postponed, for example, to LGTIQ youth. This small increase for family counsellors should not only be used for family advice, but also cover the protection of violence, better support children and young people and are also available for the especially vulnerable group of LGBTIQ youth. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] If you calculate this, you know: It's not going to happen in the back and in the front, that everyone gets what they need in this current crisis. The proper financing of family advisory services would be the minimum. At the same time, however, we also demand real protection of violence and at least one LGBTIQ service for young people per country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, we know: That's not going to happen to the defendant. We would therefore have hoped that with this proposal, which we have already made for the x-th time, the family advisory services could safely build on this 18 million euros, even in the following years, and that this contribution would simply be enough for more than small valorizations, because it would really need it now, so that families can only be supported as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e20881	Next speaker: Mr Michael Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e20905	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not so often the case that a Member of the opposition comes to the floor and rejoices. Today is one of these rare moments. I tabled a request in February of this year, together with my group, calling on the Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Women and Integration, to rename the mother-child pass into a parent-child passport. This was, of course, part of the government programme, but there was no initiative in Parliament. Suddenly, movement came into the matter and the turquoise-green colleagues in the Family Committee filed an appropriate request, which even goes further, namely a clear appreciation of the future parent-child passport. I am really happy and grateful for the serious response to our request. What about NEOS in the first step? – In the first step it was about the mother-child-pass not only having in mind the health of the mother during pregnancy and about the birth and health of the unborn child and the baby, but covering the first five years of life. We were just in the opinion: If one speaks of the parent-child-pass there, this means much more this common responsibility of the parents for the health of the child in these first five years. This would have been a first step, of course, simply a signal towards greater responsibility for both sides or a more balanced responsibility and a modern family role understanding. The current proposal by the EIA and the Greens continues significantly. This is essentially about the fact that a real precautionary passport for children up to the age of 18. ==References====External links== We as NEOS are in principle very positive about this. But we want to point out – and I would like to say this here already – that this is a very complex undertaking. We are referring to the fact that the entire funding is currently in the Family Tax Compensation Fund. This would not be eligible for funding if it were up to 18 years old. That is to say, there is an urgent need to review what measures are to be included in this parent-child passport in the future, which may also include now, but are outdated and which future sources of funding can be presented. The request of the government groups also states that all stakeholders are involved. I can warmly recommend that the health speakers of the government groups and the opposition parties also invite. There would be a lot of good feedback to find a common request at the end. This change of name and extension is a great opportunity, but only if you discuss it adequately and summarize the right measures. If it succeeds, you have the support of us NEOS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e20950	Next speaker: Mr Mario Lindner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e20975	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Love everyone! If one wants to sum up the policy of this government for young people, for families and, in fact, for almost all groups hit by this pandemic, then it is relatively simple: too little, too late and, above all, not to end. For 15 months we have been experiencing a pandemic that has hit our society as deeply as hardly an event of our lifetime. For the vast majority of the people in Austria, this has meant massive cuts in their everyday life and family life. Stress, mental stress, social insecurity, and a government that prefers to stage large media theatre in countless press conferences, as a real support measure, all of this has consequences, especially for young people, for parents, for families. These consequences will not disappear in summer, they will accompany us for years. That is exactly why the people of Austria deserved a government that does not shut their eyes, but finally acts. Let us look at what this too-a-long-to-late policy means in practice: A common issue at the last meeting of the Family Committee was the important work of the Family Advisory Offices – and that rightly so. Throughout Austria, it is precisely these more than 400 institutions that help in crises, provide important support for families and are low-end contact points in almost all situations of life. In the current crisis, we need them more than ever. A government that would really care about how families in Austria are doing would have been equipped with the financial resources they need, i.e. 18 million euros – again: too little and too late! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the course of your large announced violence protection package, there is almost 3 million euros for family advisory services: a drop on the hot stone. According to this principle of foundry, this is distributed per consulting centre and per year just running 7 250 euros – 7 250 euros for a job that is, for example, the central point of contact for thousands of families, parents and young people in my hometown of Liezen, 7 250 euros for a job that helps to protect violence as well as for partnership issues that help more queer young people as much as she does important work for girls and young women. More is apparently not worth the well-being of families in our country – and that is a shame, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, let me come to a group of young people who have just been hit particularly hard by the 15 months of pandemic, namely gay, lesbian, bisexual, transient and intersexual youths! Austria is one of the few countries in Western Europe, which does not provide its own budget resources for this particularly protective group. We are talking about a group where the suicide risk is three to five times higher than the average of their age-seekers. We are talking about a group that also has to deal with enormous psychological and social challenges outside the pandemic by means of mumbling, discrimination and lack of legal protection. We are talking about a group for which in many cases the last 15 months have shown an incision that can permanently change their lives to the worse. This shows dozens of international studies. Exactly for these LGBTIQ youth, we demand comprehensive professional youth work and a budget pot in the family ministry, so that no young person in this important phase of his life needs to be afraid to show who he is. What does this government do? – It does not even react too little or too late, it does not respond at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They willfully leave people in the rain who would need our support right now, and this is a witness to poverty.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e21029	Mrs Alexandra Tanda is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e21051	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Appreciate High House! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! Dear Mothers, Fathers in front of the screens! Nearly a quarter more – as a controller, I don't want to round it around, so I want to say it a little more precisely – 23 percent increased the budget for family advisory services, by 23 percent, which is 2.9 million euros, 2.9 million euros more for family advisory services provided by the federal government. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens]] Family, this is for most of the hort of security, but unfortunately not for all, so sorry I do. Therefore, in Austria, there are almost 400 family advisory offices as a contact point to which people who are concerned and needy can contact. Family – and this is not just the classic model, I would like to emphasize again and again – is the place where one cares for each other. That can be the father, the grandmother, that can be the siblings, the aunts, uncles, whoever. And if one can no longer bear the worry alone, if one no longer knows exactly how to do it now, if woman or husband no longer knows where to deal with the worries and needs, then the family counseling services are the ideal place to go, because they help there. They help in crisis situations, provide professional assistance through trained social workers, educators, psychologists, doctors, lawyers. Almost a quarter more – I would like to stress this over and over again. Especially in the pandemic, it has been seen that this need for consultation in the psychosocial field is particularly important. About 20 percent of the 480 000 consultations per year continue to help explicitly in questions, if you no longer know for yourself, after divorces, after separations, in questions of the right to visit, to maintenance rights. Many in Europe envy us for this offer, because it is free for those concerned. 2.9 million euros more – what does that mean? That's a lot of money, and you can't imagine it, but it's based on an average salary for a social worker, a social worker, including additional wage costs, that means 70 full-time jobs more or a new consultancy or more information, so that people who need it also know that there is this offer for free. Almost a quarter more, I would like to stress that again and again! Nearly a quarter more – by 2.9 million euros, the ÖVP has increased the budget for these family advisory services, retroactively starting from the beginning of the year. Almost a quarter more! I am pleased, even if I am sad that we have such situations. I am pleased about this 2.9 million euro, which is the pot, which also belongs to countries and communities. increase to over 60 million euros. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e21099	Mrs Ruth Becher has now been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e21120	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The family is the germ cell of society, and therefore the parents in Austria can expect fair and serious support. However, the financially chronically low-equipped family counsellors are an obvious problem: Only one third of the family counsellors are as equipped as it is necessary. The fact that there has still not been a clear division of competence between countries and authorities in the area of child protection centres is of course another problem. A sensitive point is the health of children, and the city of Vienna shows that it is possible to offer further opening hours outside the hospitals in spite of sparingness. A great deal of work is being done with the primary supply centres. The tool for the protection of children, the health protection of children is a first step, which, as mentioned today, took place under the then Minister of Health Leodolter in 1974. The motion for a resolution today calls for a further development of the parent-child passport, which runs until the 18th century. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report and for his excellent report. This is, of course, a very ambitious approach if you consider the first-mentioned failures of the Federal Government in the financial field. In this respect, one can be anxious about the implementation. There is, of course, support for this motion for a resolution for a very sensible health prevention by the SPÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e21154	Next: Mr Ralph Schallmeiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e21178	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! First of all, a response to what has come from the Social Democracy colleagues: You already know, however, that there has only recently been a request, namely a green request, in Vienna's Landtag, to increase the resources for the mental care of children and young people by 10 million euros, and this request has been voted down by your colleagues in Vienna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holzleitner.]] So it would have been possible to act accordingly here in Vienna, but I know: [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the Greens]] It's always supposed to do all the covenant, that's what we're used to. But let's go back to the real topic! It's also about the parent-child pass now. It is not a change of name alone, as my colleague Meri Disoski has already correctly explained. It is not about the name alone, but it is also about further development. It is about reaching the best possible companionship of children, parents, no matter what constellation they are in. It's okay. to ensure the best possible supply. It is about ensuring the best possible health care, mental, psychosocial care. And it is also about focusing on education and prevention in the future, for example when it comes to information in the field of vaccinations. In Austria, there is currently a very poor rate of vaccination against many diseases, and I believe that such a parent-child-pass could be an appropriate means, for example – or even when it comes to, for example, nutrition, food safety et cetera, when it comes to making up children, young people and adults who also know what their own responsibilities are in the area. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] There is, however, another perspective from our point of view, from a green point of view; my colleague, Meri Disoski, has mentioned it briefly. It's also about us reuniting the midwives into this procedure. The midwives now excite in the final effect after the eighth week of life of the baby. They can accompany pregnancy, so to speak, but they could actually do much more. They would have the training for it, only they should not have much to do with it. It is our intention that the midwives not only be fully involved as a follow-up during pregnancy, but also that some medical examination, which is currently being inspired and again questioned, should take over the midwives again, but that midwives can also be supportive after the child's birth. This requires more midwives, and the countries in particular are obliged to do so. We now have seven FHs in Austria that train midwives. It needs more places, we need a lot more midwives in Austria. It is also a question of making available to hospitals, in accordance with internships at the clinics, so that this training can take place in the appropriate quality. These are the challenges. We will ask them and then, of course, start the conversation with the critics as well as with all the other stakeholders.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e21241	Next speaker: Mrs Claudia Plasolm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e21266	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me a short time trip to 1974! The Abba-Song Waterloo made it to the charts, Hansi Hinterseer won the cockcomb race and ten of us 183 delegates came to the world this year in 1974. In addition to these encouraging events, there was also a lot to do politically – we have already heard it –: In 1974 Austria had the highest infant mortality in Western Europe, and then the mother-child-pass was introduced. Since then, it has made an unthinkable contribution to health and safety, especially during pregnancy, but also for children. The mother-child pass is a true success story: The mortality of mothers and children has since gone down enormously, and now we also actively involve fathers in the health care of their children and continue to develop the mother-child-pass to the parent-child-pass until the 18. Year of life. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This will finally implement another milestone in the government programme. When I turn around in my circle of friends, I have to say: Many do not know that even at an early age one can go to the precautionary examination regularly, and this shows that health and disease are not questions of age. They don't know any age, and that's why health policy is quite clear about youth policy. With the new parent-child pass, we also create equal opportunities for everyone: All children and young people thus have the same access to health care, and thus diseases can be identified early and treated in time. And if we are already on youth health: The psychosocial burden on children and adolescents has increased significantly during the last year, especially during lockdowns, which shows many studies. Our new Minister of Health has promised to give first priority to the topic of child and youth health, mental health. We look forward to the results, and above all we look forward to the urgent need to expand the cash-financed offers for children and young people. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The issue of vaccinations has also been addressed, and this is very much being discussed in times like this, in weeks like this among young people. Especially in Vienna with a red-pink city government, it seems not to be combined that there is a prospect for young people to have a vaccination against Corona. In many other federal states, this has worked very, very well for weeks, since vaccination has been activated for all age groups for weeks. The city of Vienna still immunises the generation Ü50. We have often had to go back in the last few months, and we too have been young people from the first day, from the 13th century onwards. March 2020, in which neighborhood aid, blue light organisations and much more have helped, and that is why we are looking forward to vaccination now, because it gives us security, it gives us freedom. We finally want to meet friends again, we want to go on and we want to travel. I hope that the restraint of our health minister punto nightgastro-opens, because a safe opening of bars and clubs with 3G rules as well as contact tracking protects us young people far more than the uncontrolled gathering in public places. With July, definitely night gastro and club festivals will finally be possible again. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Today's decision is the starting point for more and better children's and young people's health. I hope that this decision will be taken unanimously, as is already the case in the Committee. If anyone in the FPÖs has any doubts, I would also like to suggest the way of the FPÖ, which has been gladly taken in recent weeks, if there has been disagreement in certain votes. In the FPÖ it is Usus that one leaves a meeting earlier, if one is not quite clear whether one wants to comply with the party line. This has been done by your Upper Austrian FPÖ-Obmann Manfred Haimbuchner in the election of Herbert Kicklauch: He left the meeting early and went home to Upper Austria. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Hard to get serious, the FPÖ therefore dangles away from responsibility and shines with absence if one does not establish a common party line. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] On the other hand, we are here to work and make some progress in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e21365	There is now no mention of this. That concludes this debate. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. I ask the clubs if we can proceed with the votes immediately. - Then I'll go like that. We shall now proceed to the votes. Vote on agenda item 8, the resolution attached to the Committee's report 868 of the Supplements on 'Development of the Mother-Child Pass to a Parent-Child Pass up to 18. ==References== I call for a sign to be given to those who support this motion for a resolution. – This is unanimously accepted. [[181/E]] Vote on agenda item 9: Proposal from the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth to take note of its report 869 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth to take note of its report 870 of the supplements. Whoever is in favour of this consideration, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This has been noted by a majority. [[17:25:36]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Equal Treatment on Amendment No 1619/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Kffr. (FH) Elisabeth Pfurtscheller, Mag. Meri Disoski, colleagues and colleagues on the collection of funds used by the Federal Government for measures to reduce violence against women and children, as well as for prevention work, including perpetrator work in the various ministries (892 d.e.c.) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on Amendment No 1642/A(E) by Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues on the end of violence against women! (893 d.a.) 13. Point Report by the Equal Treatment Committee on Amendment 1610/A(E) by Mr Henrike Brandstötter, colleagues on information campaign and awareness-raising measures against violence against women (894d.b.) 14. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Treatment on Amendment No 1613/A(E) by Mr Henrike Brandstötter, Members and colleagues on the breaking-up of gender stereotypes on the prevention of violence in men (895 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e21502	We shall now proceed to Agenda items 11 to 14, on which the debates will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e21533	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it should also be of great interest to the Minister of Finance, as well as to what and for whom we spend money in that country. It is especially important for women and men how money is spent. We will give our agreement to this first address of the government parties, because we do not object to a question on the subject: How much money do we spend on the protection of violence? In our view, however, this is incredibly short, for the Icelandic Government, for example, has now asked all the locations there to list in the context of the crisis, to see how an economic package contributes to the recovery of the economy and public life in general, so how these funds benefit men and women. We are 17 steps back again and now ask the Interministerial Group Gender Mainstreaming/Budgeting, which has been working for 21 years, to call upon the resorts – while calling is not in the request, but to ask – how much money we spend on the protection of violence. This is too short – far too short! – because the budget service has also made proposals to us in a 90-page response – this has become a small, very interesting study, in which he suggests – that we should look at the data situation when we spend money, how much it is intended for men and women, and that each department should tell another department, and they should be very networked and working, because then we could get an overall overview of what we spend money for very quickly, and what data we need that we may not yet have. A budget can, of course, increase differences or reduce differences. This budget, these different conditions that women and men find in this country, naturally means that power is unevenly distributed – and we are not going to do so. The Federal Government is asking for an area that is very important, but we still do not know how the 24.6 million euros are divided in roughness – that is, but not when they are paid out and who can benefit from it any time. They know the backlog at the women's and girls' advisory facilities. There is not a cent for this, except that they may also be family counsellors. They would urgently need the resources to reduce this backlog in discussions so that women's poverty can be avoided in order to allow them to grow in legal advice to women. That's not where it's going. It is once again one: Well, let's just ask ourselves how much money we spend on it! But it would be equally important for compatibility, it would be just as important for care, as Iceland is now doing, to consider what we want to spend money for in the future, so that no one is disadvantaged and men and women are equally served. That's missing, and we're very sorry.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e21581	Mrs Elisabeth Pfurtscheller is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e21602	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators and spectators! Colleague Heinisch-Hosek has now very profoundly explained how gender budgeting works. Thank you very much for the explanation. Yes, we are now taking a first step, of course gender budgeting includes much more. It is now important for us to get together how much money is spent by the Austrian Federal Government on the protection of violence. Violence protection is an issue that has been very busy for a long time and has been discussed very emotionally in recent weeks and months. We are kept from the opposition again and again, we would spend too little money, there are always called sums of the opposition, and we want to have a together now to see how the individual ministries act, how much money they spend. We would like this in a report with a total sum. Yes, of course, we could have done this before, Mrs. Colleague. You said: 21 years. I can remember that many SPÖ ministers were there at this time too, you could have already done it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] In recent years, you have helped to make inquiries to all ministries, and this is a very laborious way. We get the figures now provided by the Imag. Why is that so important? – Violence protection is a cross-sectional matter, violence is a social task, and therefore we also need a summary and we need to know who spends how much money and who sets out what measures. And it is not only about money, it is above all also a good one to ensure as smooth a cooperation as possible between the different ministries. That is where we have to start, and we constantly have discussions and attempts to bring about improvements, and we have now seen it: In mid-May, the government decided to launch a very large package of violence: 24,6 million euros, a sensational sum that never existed before! One can see from the composition of the individual positions of this package that several ministries have been commissioned and employed, and therefore it is good for us to know who is doing what and how much money is spent for it. Personally, I would like to see a further step in the process of receiving the figures of the countries, because, as I have said, violence is a social task, and the countries also spend a lot of money on the protection of violence. If we have summarized all of this, we are one step further because we know where we can make improvements. I admit that the proposal is not a huge one now, but in the sense of information for all of us, and in the sense of the good basis for discussion, for all of us, where we want to continue, it is a real and important request, and I thank you in advance for the broad agreement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e21652	Next speaker: Mrs Rosa Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e21678	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Treasured spectators here in the hall and at home! On TOP 11, government request: Many dedicated workers from victim protection agencies and advisory bodies have participated in the violent protection dialogue forum chaired by colleagues Mahrer, in which all parties were represented, and all of them have legitimate hopes of supporting it. Whether the chained violence package, which has good approaches, is financially enough – I don't think so. There is an urgent need for a stable basic support, and that has also been articulated there. We have heard on the Committee of Minister Raab how the money is distributed from the violent package, e.g. 4 million euros for violence prevention/internal areas, 0.3 million euros for the justice department, 2 million euros for the Integration Fund. I have already found in committee: You can only shake your head on this government proposal. They distribute money without knowing exactly what kind of resource is spent on the protection of violence. There is in itself a negotiated budget for this, and the next one is being renegotiated by every ministry. We always hear it, it has become and it will invest so much money for the protection of violence, and this proposal allows the government to raise how much money the federal government spends on measures to reduce violence against women and children, as well as on prevention work including perpetrator work in the individual ministries. That means you don't know. This is the core statement of this request: You don't know! How is there a suitable, targeted project work possible? – This is obscene to me, and it is no wonder if there is no positive trend. We really only agree with this proposal so that this knowledge gap will finally be closed. We will also ask questions about this – let us see if the results are coherent and consistent – and we really expect quick, meaningful and targeted measures to stop violence and the murders of women. As regards the application for awareness-raising campaign and violence prevention in men, it must be stated clearly: The policy department was quietly and secretly abandoned by the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, Rudi Anschober. It was precisely this department that had the consciousness of men as an agenda. It needs a reasonable gender policy. But you also have to get the men into the boat, because men's policy also benefits women. Problems must be dealt with at the root, men must work on non-violent, conflict-free solutions where it is necessary, especially on the patriarchal male image of migrants. I know there's always a scream, but in the background of the act of a 16-year-old Afghan who, according to media reports – now he has also confessed – raped a seven-year-old girl in Schärding, one sees that this is most urgent. Before, look away and afterwards become disheartened and be shaken by no one at all! The goal must be that there is no next act.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e21724	Next speaker: Mrs Meri Disoski. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e21751	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Values Advisors! Austria has a problem with male violence and, no, colleague Ecker, this problem is neither imported nor is it religious or cultural, this problem is rooted in the Patriarchate, in patriarchal oppression structures and mechanisms. This is the reason for male violence – no religion, no ethnicity, no geographical or other membership. And as long as these oppression structures and mechanisms exist, for so long, female feminists will fight against them together! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] Our job as a politician, our job as a feminist is to create good conditions for the victim protection organizations, and the turquoise-green government takes this task very seriously. This cannot be said by previous federal governments: From 2009 to 2017, the women's budget, which is central to the protection of violence, was dimmed by ten commas, which had crushed millions there, and yes, the turquoise-blue Federal Government has even reduced these resources. The current Federal Government has changed this, we are catching up on what has failed past federal governments. Already in the first common budget, we have increased, significantly increased the funds for violence, violence prevention and also for victim protection, and across the board. In addition, with our coalition partner, we have put in place the largest force protection package in the last decades: 24,6 million euros; we have heard it today. What's going on with that? – We strengthen the victim protection facilities, we invest in preventive male, father and male labor, so that no perpetrators can be made out of boys and men at all, and we strengthen the protection of girls and women from male violence, which is sustainable because every girl has the right to a non-violent life. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With this, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, I would like to turn to you. At the end of April, you submitted a request to the Committee on Equal Opportunities to which you requested EUR 5 million for the protection of against violence. At the beginning of May you repeated this demand for 5 million euros per application. 5 million euros! A week later, the Federal Government will present a package of anti-violence measures, which will cover 25 million euros, five times the sum you require! And what's the SPÖ doing? – She speaks of PR policy! Do you know what PR policy is? – When you ask about other things you didn't bring yourself. I have looked at this very carefully in preparation for today's speech: Between 2014 and 2017, there was an blatant increase in male violence in Austria, and what additional budget resources did the German Governments then led by SPÖ provide to strengthen the protection of violence in view of these developments? What means? – I tell you: None. Nothing! No increase in the women's budget, no violence package, absolutely nothing. And then you seriously stand out here and claim that the current Federal Government would do nothing! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The NEOS, in turn, demand an information and awareness campaign against male violence by request, after the Federal Government has already decided to do so in the Council of Ministers. And you accuse us of show policy, colleague of the NEOS? - I don't understand. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, In discussions on violence, there is often a number, this figure is 14.65 million euros. So high is the budget of the Ministry of Women, that is, which should have been talking about in the meantime, in front of the large package of violence protection which we have now strapped; this is not the entire violent budget that the federal government is investing in. So far, we have not had any precise figures about this because there was no such thing as that. We will change that with the request. But, and this is what I would like to stress, violence is not only a task of the federal government, also the districts, the municipalities, the cities and also the federal states. And some of them also follow this duty exemplaryly, for example Gabriele Fischer, the Green Women's Councillor in Tyrol – she presented an equal opportunities and violence package of 7 million euros in the previous year – and the green Graz Women's City Councillor Judith Schwentner, who many of you know from her time as a member of the House here in the House – she has succeeded in implementing several years of basic funding for women's and girls' advisory services. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Why do I mention that? – I mention it – and I am going to conclude with it, Madam President – because from my point of view it is clear: It is precisely this path in this direction that we must continue at the federal level. If we are talking about violence, then it must be our common goal to create Mr Ecker, as you are right to say, long-term basic funding for these victim protection facilities, so that they can make their important work, their really important work under good conditions and can also plan long-term. We Greens will continue to do this. We leave others with PR and show policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e21842	Mrs. Karoline Edtstadler has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e21863	Madam President. High house! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Allow me, first of all, to wish from this point of view from my colleague, Mr Susanne Raab, all the good for the remaining, hopefully quiet days and weeks until the birth of her first child, and at the same time to thank me for the trust placed in me. I really hope she can devote time to her family. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report and for his excellent report.]] There is, of course, one thing to say about today's reports from the Committee on Equal Treatment: Everyone turns to prevention work, hopefully to an end to violence against women and children, to the reactions it needs to combat this violence at the root and suffocate in the germ and actually help everyone to his right. I think I can speak for everyone when I say that everyone in this country and beyond has the utmost interest in doing everything – and I want to go a step further and say that we have done everything in our power in this Federal Government and also in the governments before it – in order to counter violence and violence accordingly. The fact is, however, that the pandemic of course did not necessarily lead to relaxation in the area of domestic violence. That is why it has been so important that Federal Minister Susanne Raab has already been during the first lockdown. In the spring of 2020, the focus was on a corresponding awareness-raising offensive. I can only take one thing that has touched me very much personally: the measure that you can not only use help by telephone, but can also do this by texting, which is important exactly when someone is in a tight setting, cannot leave the apartment. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this was particularly true of the pandemic, but this is probably true in many areas also after the pandemic, and fortunately there are such measures. I think that's quite, very important. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] Every woman's murder is a woman's murder too much. Unfortunately, we have seen a dramatic development in recent years. This is why I am telling you because I have observed this very carefully, studied it and also tried to oppose it when, in my time as Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, I also led the Task Force on Criminal Law. It is all the more shocking to be able to take action here and see that it is obvious that individual actions cannot be prevented. But it's important to have a reaction. The women's murder was particularly shocking at the end of April, and the Federal Government – in some cases it has already been accused and said – has taken acute action. A security summit was held immediately thereafter at the Ministry of the Interior, with the Minister of Justice, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Women, the nine National Police Directorates. It was a few days later, on the 12th. May, convene a round table with the victim protection facilities and also with health and social minister Wolfgang Mückstein. There was the package of measures mentioned by some, with an increase of 24.6 million euros for violence prevention. Yes, you can now be of the opinion, dear SPÖ, that this is nothing or too little or too late, but I say to you that this is a strong increase, and I believe that every victim protection facility that gets millions more – even if it is distributed, of course, smaller amounts – is grateful for it because it can accompany women longer and further, even after such actions. So a very, very important measure! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I would also like to say, quite specifically, to the TOP 11, which is about questioning the funds spent on the protection of violence, in the field of prevention work, in the direction of FPÖ: No, it's not that we wouldn't know what money we spend on these things, but it's just a cross-sectional matter. At the same time, I say that it is a social task to act against violence, because it does not begin with the murder, but often begins with words, and there is also an environment that needs to be seen against it. However, in line with this request, we will also raise which departments spend which funds, in particular for the reduction of violence against women and children, as well as for prevention work including the work of the perpetrator, in the relevant interministerial working group on gender mainstreaming and gender budgeting, so that we can give a very clear overview here, including you. Many other measures have been taken, and I am saying this because I do not want to put contrary representations on myself or on the Minister of Women or on the Government. I am now saving you that I am reading everything here, but there are so many measures that, in their entirety, I think, make up what I hope will be described in the end as a successful work against violence against women and children, from the strengthening of women's contact points through a promotion call for 2020 with a volume of 1.25 million euros for projects in this field – projects to be implemented in 2021 – I have a very special concern, and I would also like to stress that this is not within the competence of the Minister for Women, but rather of the Minister of the Interior. That is why I am saying it with all the clarity, because I think it is a very, very essential measure, that one should also take action in the field of culprits, and that was also an essential output of the criminal law of the time, which resulted in the third package of violence. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you can never do enough in this context, you can never be early enough, but I say it again: It is a social task that affects all of us, even in daily contact with each other, in daily dealings, and even if you notice something in school, in the environment, in the club or in the place. I really call on all of you to step in here to ensure that we do not stop – even if hopefully not women’s murder – talking about this issue. It is a very special concern to me personally – and I know, the Minister of Women too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e21951	The next speaker is Mrs Sabine Schatz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e21975	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, you mentioned it, Mrs Federal Minister: The year is not even half over, and we already have 14 women's murders in Austria, 14 femicides, and femicides are only the top of the iceberg of violence. Violence affects women regardless of age, origin, social status or religion. Violence against women is not a cultural or migration issue. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Rather, violence against women is an expression of structural inequality and the expression of a patriarchal system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Violence protection – and I like to say this again and again at this point – finally needs comprehensive, continuous measures. Unfortunately, all our concrete proposals and requests have been postponed in the Committee, or – like the proposal now before us – have been rejected, postponed until Sankt Nimmerlein and rejected when it is implemented. We will discuss this again at a later date. And yes: In principle, it is welcome that the government of ÖVP and Greens has now become active and announced a package of violence. I believe that the series of women's murders and the consistent pressure from us as opposition parties were also a factor. We also know, however, that there are concerned criticisms of the anti-violence institutions, criticisms of the women's ring, which call this package a mogel pack and call for much, much, much more money in order to actually implement the necessary concrete measures to comply with the Istanbul Convention. One thing is clear: Counselling and violence prevention facilities need resources quickly and continuously, including for planning. While women's and girls' counsellors are likely to be empty again in this package, there are again project invitations of 3.6 million euros – and, Mrs. Minister, you have also mentioned it now. However, the women's advisory bodies understandably complain because they are unable to set up projects with a minimum project funding amount of 80 000 euros during this short period and the necessary co-financing. It is not possible for normal, small women's advisory facilities, projects This is why the money does not come where it is urgently necessary, namely at the bottom of the base. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Fire brigades.]] We must move away from this project funding to continuous, planned and solidified basic support for these institutions. In our proposal, which you reject today, we call for, among other things, the structural exchange with the federal states in the field of violence protection. As far as the women's homes are concerned, the countries are responsible. If we look at the number of necessary women's homes according to the Istanbul Convention: Vienna alone fulfils the requirement regarding the women's houses. In Upper Austria, we now receive three additional women's houses through social councillor Birgit Gerstorfer: in the Salzkammergut, in the Mühlviertel and in Braunau. This is violence that works. Please also support us in these concerns! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e22038	Next speaker: Mrs Henrike Brandstötter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e22063	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear spectator at home in front of the screens! Perhaps some of you once read “Bravo. ” Perhaps disciples know the issue of the parents ’ stories. At present, a very disturbing section of a 1975 issue of the social networks has been seen. Then Christl from Austria reports in a letter to the famous Dr. In summer, she'll have to go out in front of her father again and again. She writes if she needs money for a class trip or for other little things, he says he's gonna break all of her things and he'll throw them out. So, and what does Dr. Sommer answer, this immature instance of the love life of the teenagers of the 1970s and 1980s? – Dr. Summer answers: Don't you think so? That's what you're thinking. Find a real friend and leave your father alone, because your father has a real hard time! This scene is of course from the 1970s, but you might wonder: How are women doing today when they need help? – The Grevio evaluation report of the Council of Europe shows this very clearly. I quote: "As compared to women from other EU countries, Austrian women are least informed about campaigns on violence against women in their country, which suggests an urgent need for public awareness". We wanted to join NEOS in this legitimate criticism and meet it with an information and awareness campaign. It is about sharpening awareness, which is acceptable and what is not. Our request was rejected by ÖVP and Greens. They also rejected another request, namely that of those who called for measures to prevent violence in men. Patriarchal thinking patterns are considered to be one of the most common causes of gender-specific violence. These socially deeply rooted causes of violence against women need to be overcome, and this requires a sustainable breaking up of stereotyped gender roles, both in society and in childhood. Yes, you do not want to take the euro into your hands in order to pack the problem at the root. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: That's not true! That's not true! ...!]] Maybe you don't even see a problem. I can only give you the following: Dr. Sommer was a highly competent, sensitive, compassionate expert compared to you, ladies and gentlemen in the government. Finally, of course, I would also like to express the best wishes at this point by Federal Minister Susanne Raab. I hope she can enjoy the time very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e22099	Next speaker: Mr Norbert Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e22124	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! We are discussing a very serious and sad issue here: violence against women and femicides, these women's murders that have already taken place this year. I think I speak on behalf of everyone, when I say that each one of these murders affects us, makes us sad, but also angry. A lot of right things have already been said. Men are the aggressors, but, ladies and gentlemen, it needs a differentiated view of this male violence. We're not men like that. I reject this flat-rate accusation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I don't know in this house any man I'd trust or assume he'd go to women in such a way. I know in my environment, in my circle of acquaintance, not a man who would deal with women in such a way. Nevertheless, I say: Yes, the programs are important and correct, so that we look at them accurately and mercilessly – please look at them with an open look: Where are these structures that you complain, Mrs. Brandstötter? Where are these structures? – so that we can really look at it and also name where these structures are. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fire brigades.]] I'll tell you: That's not how we men are! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Fire brigades: Yes, unfortunately! ...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is perfectly correct and good that the government has adopted a plan of action. I'm perfectly clear, it can always be a little more and might, perhaps, be more. It is, however, an ambitious action plan that is active in many areas. For the strengthening of the anti-violence facilities, it is EUR 5 million, for the advisory services on the prevention of violence EUR 4 million, for increasing family advisory services and for strengthening and safeguarding the child protection centres – I am particularly concerned – another EUR 3 million, for strengthening women with migration background, for prevention of violence and campaigns against male violence – about which you, Mrs Brandstötter, just said, are not taking place – another EUR 4 million, EUR 0.3 million for anti-violence and impact control training, judicial anti-violence training, strengthening family judicial assistance, strengthening legal and psychosocial process support – to a total of EUR 24.6 million. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fire brills]] I believe that this is a package of measures that can be seen and will certainly be successful. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying: We're not men like that. But let us act decisively against this violence against women together!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e22196	Mrs Romana Deckenbacher is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e22218	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Seers! When the forces arrived, the 35-year-old two-year-old mother was rainless on the ground. A short time later, she died. – Events in April of this year in my residential district in Brigittenau in Vienna. At that time, it was already the ninth women's murder that we had to complain in Austria this year. The Federal Minister has already carried it out today: Violence protection is a cross-sectional matter, is cross-cutting and is primarily a social task of all of us. For example, the Federal Government has immediately decided on a package of measures to protect victims, to protect violence and to prevent them, and one can rightly speak of one of the biggest initiatives in recent decades, namely, EUR 24.6 million. These additional resources will be used to strengthen anti-violence facilities, to increase family advisory services and to develop and safeguard child protection centres. And yes, even to strengthen women and girls with migration backgrounds, projects against sexual violence are being promoted throughout Austria and support for women affected by forced marriage. Every woman and girl should know that she/she gets support and that there is a place of refuge. Therefore, awareness-raising campaigns on violence against women are intensified. The question of why violence against women and children always comes to murder can only be difficult to answer. However, when you talk to those concerned, many women lack the courage to visit competent bodies, namely, because of fear of losing their homes or their children, or also because of fear of being excluded from their families, because this is often the only social network they have for women with migration backgrounds. For example, the Austrian Integration Fund will also provide around 2 million euros in the framework of the package for the protection of violence. The ÖIF is truly doing essential work, for example with value courses, for information, information, and thus also for important integration. Projects will be financed to give women the opportunity to reintegration into the labour market, thus creating economic independence, and these women will and will be able to be models for their children. At this point I would like to say once again how important education is in this context. Education is the basis for economic independence, for good vocational training, for an independent life. It is our responsibility to continue giving no place to violence and to give any kind of support to those concerned. Financial resources are important, of course, in order to be able to implement projects, but from my point of view, it is no less important to ensure that, as a part of society, we deal properly with each other, especially with how we deal with each other, namely in our private, professional and political life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e22278	Mr Michael Bernhardzu spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e22302	Mr. Sieber! I've spoken for your speech. You said: “This is not how we are men”, in connection with violence against women. I have to tell you: From the individual perspective, of course, one has the feeling, we are not. But when you get out here and say, “That’s not how we are men!”, you give us men a bear service, and women very special. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] We know that every fifth woman in our country will eventually become victims of sexualized violence in her life – and there are no psychological violence and no-exualized violence at all. That means we have a big topic. The most important thing that the men who claim for themselves that they are not part of the problem are able to do is open the subject and not flat-rate for a space in which they do not know half of the people well: No one looks like he's doing it to me; in my federal land I don't know anyone who would. I know you meant it differently, and it's not a criticism, but I'm telling you: If we want to live differently in the future than we do now and women in our society want to offer a non-violent perspective, then we always have to talk openly about topics and should never take advantage of flat-rate others for which we cannot speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e22349	I have a statement by Mr Meri Disoski to make on an actual correction. - Please. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e22373	In her speech, Mr Brandstötter claimed that the Federal Government would not provide funds for public awareness-raising and information campaigns against male violence or for violence prevention measures in men. I'm actually correcting: According to the Council of Ministers' presentation, which the Federal Government adopted on 12 May, the budget for this purpose amounts to EUR 4 million.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e22400	I am now no longer in favour of these items of the agenda. That is why I am closing this debate. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I refer the vote to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Equal Opportunities. [[18:06:50]] 15. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on Amendment No 1594/A(E) by Dr Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic, Nico Marchetti, Members on the protection of inter-sex children and adolescents from non-medically necessary treatment of sexual characteristics (896 d.a.) 16. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Treatment on Amendment No 1643/A(E) by Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner, Mr BSc, colleagues on the law and dignity of intergender children should not be further injured (897, e.g.) 17. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on amendment 1600/A(E) by Mr Mag. Stop Yannick Shetty, colleagues on conversion therapies – finally implement unanimous resolution from 2019 (898 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e22473	We come to points 15 to 17 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. In view of the absence of oral reporting, Mr Mario Lindnerehl spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e22500	Let me start with something positive. The last meeting of the Committee on Equal Opportunities has shown what would be possible. We have seen with a good dozen of applications in the middle of the Pride month which construction sites are in front of us and what we could create together. I would like to thank you very explicitly for the good basis for discussion with all the political groups. So yes, in the equal treatment committee, there would be much possible, but hardly anything is actually done. First of all, this is because of the way in which the political groups of the EIA and the Greens deal with the demands we are discussing. Whether it's LGBTIQ youth work or levelling up, the government refuses or postpones. Not even a hearing on discrimination protection was possible. Although the whole opposition was for it, the government simply refused. We get easy to hear at most demands: Don't get upset, we're working, the government is planning something for it!, but nothing happens at the end of the day de facto, and that's disappointing. Full protection of discrimination, action against the homophobic governments in Poland and Hungary, a national action plan against hatred, sexual education in schools and so on – all of this has rejected or postponed ÖVP and Greens in recent months. The LGTIQ community in Austria has simply not deserved this policy of sitting out, looking out and talking. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Today we will decide on two motions for resolutions, and that is good. There too, however, the pattern of moving is applied. With regard to the prohibition of operations to intergender children, our request was simply rejected. This does not demand, like that of the government groups, only measures and possible legal gaps, but rather a firm legal ban on non-necessary operations. I ask you: Why should the government not simply put in place a legal ban quickly instead of making a non-binding examination? I'm sorry, but I'm sure you'll stop doing this. pretend we'd reached a goal if we were just two meters above the starting line in the best case! We see the same pattern in the conversion therapy 2019. In 2019, this House did exactly what you repeat today: a resolution unanimously adopted. But we need no further calls to the government, but finally a law! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear colleagues from the ÖVP and the Greens, but we are concerned about the matter. Therefore, the SPÖ has done your work for you and has presented a final legislative proposal for the prohibition of dangerous conversion therapies. My Appeal It is today: Let the move and be the excuses! Finally, if we do something that really improves the life of LGTIQ people, we decide to ban conversion therapies before the summer! The SPÖ will therefore submit a deadline request tomorrow. Go in until then and agree tomorrow! We then have a month to discuss this law at a glance in the Committee on Justice and to make changes when it is necessary. If you really mean it with the ban on conversion therapies, then we decide before the summer – then this government finally really did something for the LGTIQ community. – Happy Pride!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e22563	Next speaker: Mr Nico Marchetti. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e22588	Madam President. Dear women ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! We have now discussed a lot about these issues, and I have also stressed several times that this is really about issues of social policy and about sensitive issues, where it is possible to take time to discuss them. We are 71 Members of the ÖVP – one or the other may be more sympathetic or unsympathetic to you, but you must not forget that these 71 delegates represent 1 789 417 voters. I think it is legitimate for us, as the largest group in this House and as the only true People's Party covering all the widths and regions of this country, to maintain that there are different realities of life. I have the feeling that we sometimes discuss as if there were only the honourable Member's own reality and as if everything else were somehow unimaginable and bad. I don't have this access. I believe that we in this House have the responsibility to bring all the different realities of life together in order to make the best possible choices for all. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The principle programme of the EIA states: “How men shape their lives and what life designs they pursue are in their free decision.” From this I also say that it has not only earned a homosexual/homosexual respect, it has earned this acceptance to a believing Catholic, who has a different life model, something different than right. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I have always felt these debates a little bit like a mutual play. I believe that every reality of life should have a right. Everyone should be able to live as he wants; and not only should one use this for himself, but one should respect it if others have life designs and treat them equally respectfully. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As the largest group in this House, we not only have the picture of many realities of life as a task, we also have the responsibility to find solutions to problems, and that is exactly what we are doing today. First of all, we take the issue of the protection of intergender children and adolescents from non-medically necessary treatments on sexual characteristics. The subject has been discussed for a long time, and I am very, very glad that today we, all political groups, are taking a decision and are finally continuing on this issue. The second problem we want to solve today is the conversion therapies. We have already mentioned this: Therapy and everything that has to do with it, soul care and personal conversations are quite, quite sensitive things. I believe that we have now formulated a good job contract for a government template which contains exactly what we want, and which goes even further than Mr Shetty's original request, because we take into account not only the exercise, but also the implementation, application and mediation of measures and techniques that have the objective of re-pollution. We are not only limited to minors, but, as in Germany, we have taken into account full-years whose consent is based on lack of will. I think we really agreed on a good solution, and I think politics with the balled fist is not as good as politics with the open hand. Finally, it turned out that this is the way to achieve better solutions. That is why we will also decide unanimously today on this proposal, and that is very, very good. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] It has also been repeatedly discussed by various bodies that there is not always such a good protection for the LGTIQ community as in Austria. For example, let's look at Hungary: On 15.6. a law has been passed that we do not think is in line with the way we believe that we should deal with this group, and homosexuals have been equated with paedophiles. I believe that we have been behind us for a long time now, and that is why I am making the following request today: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you too, Minister Edtstadler, for ensuring that you will do so in a personal way. In this sense, it may be a good example of getting together when you talk and not always having to expose each other to make any points.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e22687	Mr President, you did not read the last sentence in the motion for a resolution. To ensure that it is properly introduced, I would ask you to repeat the last sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e22702	I would like to fix this immediately, namely: “Protection and improvement of the situation of LGBTIQ people in Europe and, in the sense of Austrian commitment to human rights, to address this issue at European level, in bilateral relations and in other relevant multilateral forums.” I hope that was correct – and now really: Thank you. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[18:18]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e22786	I can therefore consider it to be properly applied. It is also sufficiently supported and is therefore involved in the negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Rosa Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e22810	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Every human being has the right to physical integrity. One or two of 1,000 children are not typically born as a boy or as a girl. They have both normal sexes, so they are not clearly female or male. We're in favour of making these kids grow up the way they are. They can still decide later whether they want to change their bodies or not – and always under the premise that they have informed themselves well and that their consent to this happens for their own free will. Gender-assigning and changing operations, or the so-called child-age re-pollution therapies, violate human rights for physical integrity and sexual self-determination. Medical interventions and questionable therapies in which undue influence on sexual orientation is taken can lead to serious physical and mental problems. A child can also grow up without surgery and without therapy as a boy or as a girl. A child is always right as it is. Questionable therapies are at risk of the wrong sex being assigned to the child – usually under pressure. The high social pressure to which affected children and young people are exposed as well as their parents does not rarely result in questionable therapies, consultations and early decisions being made, which later prove to be false, because the children and young people themselves are still too young to recognize or communicate their sexual identity. Umoperated children and young people – there are a lot of reports – tell as adults that they feel they have been abused and mutilated. They suffer from physical and psychological trauma, depression, anxiety, suicide. It is certainly important that these children and young people and their parents are accompanied sufficiently long on the way to the finding phase. The young adult may feel quite different from that of a child after the completed puberty development. That is why we also believe that interventions and therapies should only be allowed if they help to prevent a risk to the life of the child, or if they are absolutely necessary for the health of the child. The young adults are to reach the age of 18 with the age of 18. Year of life, self-determined and freely decide which process they choose – without pressure and without influence. That is why we are also in favour of the need to close possible legal gaps.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e22845	The next item is Mrs Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e22871	Madam President! Mrs Edtstadler! Mrs Zadić! Ladies and gentlemen. Today is a day of joy, not because I have a birthday, but because we decide on three things in which the Austrian Parliament rarely agreed. I would also like to thank the colleague from the FPÖ for this speech, which is quite, very important. He points out that this is not about ideology or party politics, but about the protection of children, babies and young people. On the one hand, when it comes to gender-standardizing operations: Applying IGM to FGM, female genital mutilation, was a big concern for us to simply point out: There's nothing lost in hospitals if it's not medically necessary that the babies be squatted around. On the other hand, at the last plenary session we discussed the importance of the decreed ban on so-called conversion, re-pollution therapies, i.e. therapies aimed at making children, young people heterosexual again. We know that every human being is unique, but on the one hand all have the same rights, and on the other hand, diversity is our strength. And today, this Parliament proves exactly this strength when it comes to equal rights, and when it comes to protecting children and young people in Austria from being operated on if it does not have to be, and it is being treated if it does not have to be. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Very important – and this is the third thing we hope to decide unanimously today – is the condemnation of the current transactions in a neighbouring country of Austria, namely in Hungary. We have repeatedly talked about the fact that the developments there are not welcome because they fall back into a dark past in which minorities had to fear to become visible or, for example, to be called in school, to go to the street or to wear a rainbow pin. We need to introduce this development clearly here, and today we do so with a request from the two government parties with which we, both ministers, call on you to enter into bilateral talks with Hungary and make it clear that, as a neighbouring country, we want to have a state in which no one has to fear to stand in the prime month and beyond what he or she is. I am very glad that this has been successful today. I would ask for broad support for this request that Nico has now put in here. I wish everyone concerned and not interested a Happy Pride! I hope to see some of you at the parade on Saturday. This is not about how you love or live, but it is about our solidarity with everyone that we not only recognize this diversity in Austria, but also about protecting the right to this diversity in Austria, even here in the Austrian Parliament, to protect us for this protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e22917	Next item is the report by Mr Yannick Shetty. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e22939	Madam President. Dear Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, Last week has a greener Functionary shared a blog post on Facebook in which he criticized the opposition. He said we would not understand the motto United in Pride, which means as much as united under the rainbow with all common forces. I then asked myself: Maybe we're too sharp sometimes? Are we too impatient? Do we criticize too much and too flat-rate? I then wondered what is behind this motto that the community has shaped for so long: United States in Pride. – For me, that means knowing in the heart who the allies are. And believe me, we do. We know what we owe to people, politicians, such as Ulrike Lunacek, or to many other parties or movements, who for decades and at a time when we have been publicly blinded to gays and lesbians and transgenders. We know that. However, to be present does not mean not to be critical, and because of this there is a great deal of weather in spite of how often they can be read among the Greens at the moment, there is no room for it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic.]] You know, responsibility goes hand in hand with power, and this turquoise-green government does not assume enough responsibility for the LGBTIQ community. Call me one, a single legal improvement in this legislative period that you have brought! I might want to correct myself: Improvement is the wrong word, because that would mean we want more rights, we want privileges. The opposite is actually the case. What LGBTIQ people want is that the rights to them, the fundamental rights to them, are also recognised. There was nothing further in this legislative period, on the contrary, all constructive opposition proposals have been shoved, postponed, rejected. Because these are so many, I would like to show you how many requests we have made. [[Keeping a board with the title “rejected and missed LGTIQ requests by the turquoise-green government”]] This is just a section, a list of requests that we have submitted during this legislative period. All have been postponed, rejected, shubled, and that's not all right! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course, we know that this is not only to be addressed to the Greens, but above all to the People's Party, which has been arrested in parts – and I stress in parts, because of course not all – as far as social policy is concerned in the last millennium. I say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP – the people concerned know who is meant –: I'm here as a member of the National Council at the speaker's desk, I'm standing up for men. Here are Members of Parliament, women who stand on women, and there will also be delegates here who are transgender people. And that's good, because we represent the population here, and you also have to accept it. [[We welcome the NEOS and the representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] But of course I would also like to talk about the stage success that we can celebrate here today: Within a week, more than 8 000 people have signed our petition, which we have started to ban re-pollution therapy, and this shows that the pressure from civil society has been exerted. Today we have made a joint request, both in terms of re-pollution therapy and in terms of the prohibition of genital mutilation in inter-sexual children. This is really a great first step. But it is only a first step, because contrary to the announcement, what we are deciding here today is not a law, but a resolution that has to be transformed into a law. I would like to address one last point, which has already been discussed here today, namely Hungary. In Hungary – in order to perhaps use the German Chancellor’s division – fundamental values are being devalued. The law that was passed yesterday is homo and transphob, and the red lines are moving ever further. That is why, at the end of the day, I put in a motion for a resolution which is sharp and not as dirty as the one that has just been tabled: [[Quoted print version removed]] Let us decide and show Orbán that there are still red lines in Europe! Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[18:29]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e23086	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Alma Zadić, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e23110	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! We are dealing with some very important concerns in the National Council today, and at the end of the day we are dealing with real equality and equality between the LGBTIQ community. There are three requests to this effect, and I very much hope that they will be given broad approval. I would like to address two requests because we keep talking about them and because it is very important that we have a sign today. As Minister of Justice, I can assure you of my full support. It's about the ban on conversion therapy. Such pseudotherapy is intended to alter the sexual orientation of LGTIQ people, so they are said to be re-polished. You can imagine what that means for these people. Especially in the youthful age, they are told that they are wrong, that they are not correct, that they need to be re-polished. This leads to a lot of psychological damage, emotional damage, which ultimately leads to depression and suicide. Therefore, these pseudotherapys are incredibly dangerous, harm human rights and are absolutely inhuman. Therefore, as Minister of Justice, I welcome the fact that this ban will be dealt with in the National Council today, and I hope that there will be broad support for it. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] However, it is also about the protection of inter-sex children and adolescents who are not subject to medically necessary treatment in their sexual characteristics. Unfortunately, we experience that again and again. In many countries, these medically non-necessary treatments, in which these children, young people and babies, as well as babies, have not been accepted by themselves. This, among other things, also results in injuries of their human dignity. The UN Committee against Torture has formulated: It is cruel, it is inhuman and humiliating in the sense of the UN anti-torture convention. Ladies and gentlemen, with this proposal, we are protecting children and young people, so I am pleased that you are voting on it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is my political goal to work for a society in which it is a fair relationship in which everyone and everyone can live and develop a free life. That this is not a matter of course and that we are daily for this It also shows a view towards Hungary, our immediate neighboring country. There, yesterday, Parliament passed a law against the great and also courageous resistance of the LGTIQ community, which is directed against all sexual orientations which differ from the heterosexual expression. For example, advertising is to be prohibited in which homosexuals or transsexuals are represented as part of society. Ladies and gentlemen, this is retroactive and does not correspond to our European values. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] All of this is done under the cover of pedophilia. Unfortunately, this equation of homosexuality and pedophilia is not completely unknown to us in Austria. We remember the year 1970, there was the so-called fornication with animals and persons of the same sex in the Criminal Code. Only with the reform of criminal law in 1971 did this discriminatory crime change, but there were other discriminatory offences in the criminal code, and it took the last time At the end of the millennium, until they were finally decriminalized by the Constitutional Court with the abolition of the uneven age of protection and finally all criminalisation of sexual sexual act was removed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] From today's point of view, what appears to be inconceivable and clearly illegal to human rights was bitterly serious for those concerned – some of them still live today. It was immense suffering and also destroyed countless existences. Homosexual men in particular were presented as a danger to society and sexual morality, as one called at the time, but homosexual women were equally affected, and there was no sensitivity to non-Binary identities at all. These laws and the judgments that followed were a serious injustice. Therefore, on the occasion of Pride Month, I also confirm that people cannot be discriminated against, treated unevenly or even criminally because of their sexual orientation, their sexual characteristics or their sexual identity. The Queercommunity is and remains an integral part of our society. It is a community that had to suffer a lot of suffering, also through the hands of the state and its representatives. As you have heard, justice was no exception. Therefore, as Minister of Justice, as a guest in the House, I would like to take advantage of today's occasion to apologise for justice once again in every form for all the people who have been prosecuted in the Second Republic for their sexual orientation, and to all their families sincerely and in every form. [[It was in favour of Greens, ÖVP and SPÖ, as well as Members of the NEOS.]] I would also like to express my deep regret for the suffering and injustice that has happened to them, but I also apologize for the long silence that followed. These people were violated by institutions that were supposed to protect them, in their dignity, in their human beings. In recent years and in part decades we have made a lot of progress. The LGBTIQ community has had to fight many, many of its rights, but still gay, bisexual, trans- and intersexual people are affected by hatred and violence, and we still have a long way to go until we finally have real equality until finally everyone is equal. We still have a lot to do and I therefore ask you to take these steps today and to give them your broad support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e23205	The next speaker was Mrs Irene Neumann-Hartberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e23234	Madam President. Estimated ministers! Today, we decide to protect intergender children and young people from non-necessary medical interventions – a subject that does not everyone know what to do. But you may have recently noticed something about filling out your vaccination form, which is where it is about crossing the sex: female or male – if clear – inter, open, diverse or no entry are the other possibilities to be found there. This is a political achievement from 2019, only: Large parts of society can do little to nothing with it. I confess, until my political activity, that I too have not dealt with it intensively. Does everyone in this room know a affected family? In a one hour telephone call, I had a friend tell me what it means to have an intergender child. The joy, the happiness, the love, the pride of the parents, when they keep their newborn in their arms is huge, and then comes the sensitive attempt of the doctor to explain the unclear admissibility of the sex of this beautiful living being, this newborn baby. This is a message that a doctor does not deliver daily, and a message that understandably triggers a wide range of emotions. Joy, happiness and pride suddenly give way to fear, uncertainty, despair, ignorance about the meaning of the often still vague diagnosis, but also the hope that everything will become good. Understandably, the desire for a solution and a solution to this challenge is equally huge. It is a message that a family can certainly bring out of balance and indeed to the limits of its loadability. I gave life to a valuable person, was often the comforting thesis of this mother in many desperate moments. The happy smile of her baby and the confidence in medicine were often the only rescue anchors. As parents of these children, you have to rely on what few specialists recommend in this field. Doing the medically necessary and the right thing often depends on a damocles sword over the parents. Intersexuality is certainly a subject that definitely does not receive enough attention in society, but social pressure in the individual situation can be enormous. For intersexual children, the challenge usually begins in school, but the right identity crisis hits with full weight at the latest in puberty. Parents are confronted with depression up to the risk of suicide of their children. The fact is, a debate on this issue is only taking place if it concerns its own environment. Enlightenment, support and support for the families concerned, but I also think communication to the outside is an important step. In conclusion and in summary, that means that sexual interference may only be carried out if there is a potential health damage or a medical need, and legal gaps must be resolved in these cases. With today's decision, which I hope will take place unanimously, the final solution is certainly not on the table, but the job assignment to this Federal Government is on the way. I'm confident that something will move. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e23285	Mr Mario Lindner spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e23313	Madam President. At the beginning of your speech, Mrs Neumann-Hartberger said that we are today adopting a ban on operations of intergender children. That's wrong. I'm actually correcting: Today, we are adopting a resolution calling for the Federal Ministers for Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection, as well as for Justice and for Women, Family, Youth and Integration to take measures to effectively protect intergender children and young people and their physical integrity from medically unnecessarily necessary interventions.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e23340	A second time Mrs Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e23361	Ladies and gentlemen. It is important that things are criticized. It is important that the opposition submits applications, presents initiatives that will then be taken up. It is not right, however, to stand here and claim against any reality that the government parties would not do anything. That's just wrong! In the last 17 months – and I do not tend to protect the ÖVP, but now do so consciously – there has been as much progress in the field as never before. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Mr. Yannick Shetty, I'd like to tell you what we've done. It is not just a clear task for the Minister to work out a ban on IGM – sorry, Mario, that's a little pea-countery. If we decide today, what will the minister do differently? [[Abg. Kickl: No yes! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] It is a clear task to develop a ban on conversion therapies in such a way that they are no longer possible in Austria. That wasn't much different in your then application, Mario. At the time of the blood donation, we have shortened a time limit of twelve months to four months. This is now accompanied by a study on communicable diseases, with which we can look at how we can improve access for all. We finally managed to capture hate crimes, so-called Hatecrimes, in Austria. For the first time in criminal statistics, they are indicated with the aim of resisting measures, just as there are training for officials and officials, and just as we now have six options for gender entry in Austria. If that's nothing, I don't know. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We also decided in Parliament on the protection of vulnerable groups in the asylum process – that was quite, very important too. At this point I would like to thank Mr Gudrun Kugler, who was just as important because she knows that there are minorities who need special protection. Not to be forgotten is that it is finally, at last, an excuse in Austria – thanks to Alma Zadić! – the Republic, which gives justice for the criminal prosecution of homosexuals in Austria. Let's stop saying it doesn't happen at all! It's never happened that much. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I'm the first one who knows what's still open, and our government coalition partner knows very well that we're still negotiating. I know that we bring it together to eliminate these open points. We don't need any bad opposition requests or any of the lists that you, Yannick, show us here, because if it's about you, you'd contact us before. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and NEOS]] When it comes to the common thing for the community, work with us instead of against us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e23429	Now I have a word message to make for an actual correction. – Mr Shetty, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e23453	Madam President. There would be much to correct now, which is probably not the case with the actual correction, but Mr Ernst-Dziedzic has said that the period of return for blood donation has been shortened from twelve to four months. That's wrong. I'm actually correcting: The retention period is still left for 12 months, and this statement is not correct.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e23488	I now have a speech by Mrs Karoline Edtstadler. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e23509	Madam President. High house! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! The debates on today's agenda allowed me to start with you and with my colleague Leonore Geessler with a statement on the European Union. I said in this statement that the European Union, Europe, is building on equal values: democracy, the rule of law and human rights. I'm telling you, I'm with every fiber at this word. That is why I would also like to speak on the request made by Mr Nico Marchetti and Mr Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic. Yesterday the French Secretary of State Clément Beaune visited Vienna, and also yesterday this law was passed in Hungary. On the verge of a press conference, we were both addressed by a French journalist. At that time I did not know the law – yesterday – in its details, but I pointed out that there should be no laws in Europe that are discriminatory, and Clément Beaune pointed out that it would be worrying if laws were passed that are discriminatory. Now we know more: There should be a link between homosexuality and pedophilia. This is worrying, it is discriminatory and therefore rejected. But I am going one step further, because we have heard a lot about intergender children today, about how important it is to give these children and family members a corresponding sensitivity. I fully support this and say: It is a restriction on freedom of expression when these children, but also in general, are children and young people in their persuasion. phase of information to be kept away. This too should be included in this law. Anyone who knows me knows that I attach great importance to addressing and discussing these issues in the General Affairs Council, wherever the Article 7 procedures are running. It seems that I am also one who is not afraid of confronting and addressing directly the fellow Members from the other Member States concerned. Not always, I admit, that is something that immediately leads to the goal and dissolves, but I say that I am the fundamental values of the European Union and that I will not be tired of addressing such things. I therefore take this request that you have made to us very seriously to the Minister of Justice and to the Foreign Minister, and will do so already on 22 December. In June, the Council in Luxembourg also launched an Article 7 procedure against Poland and Hungary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e23564	I am now no longer in favour of these items of the agenda. That concludes the debate. I ask whether one of the rapporteur would like the final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I refer the vote to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Equal Opportunities. [[18:50:23]] 18. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Treatment on Amendment 95/A(E) by Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, Members and colleagues on the assignment of a time-use study (899 d.a.) 19. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Treatment on Amendment 375/A(E) by Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, Members and colleagues on the mandate of a time-use study (900 d.a.) 20. Point Report by the Equal Treatment Committee on Amendment 71/A(E) by Mr Henrike Brandstötter, Members of Parliament on participation in EU time-use study (901 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e23625	We shall continue on the agenda. These are the points 18 to 20, which we are now discussing and on which the debates are being conducted under one. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mrs Verena Nussbaum. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e23655	Madam President. Dear ministers! Dear High House! At the beginning of my debate, I must say that I find it very worrying, as did the government parties, deal with opposition requests. We have already submitted applications for the time-use study in October 2020 and again in April 2021, which is intended to provide us with data on unpaid work. First, our requests were postponed in the Equal Treatment Committee, but in the last committee, they were rejected. At the same time, Minister of Women, Raab, has announced that she would like to conduct a time-use study. I do not understand why the ÖVP and Green Members cannot jump over their shadows and accept our requests. It's about commissioning a study, please! I feel it's a driving over the opposition, and I think it's very disrespectful to us. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] The Corona pandemic has shown us that real equality is still an illusion. Quite the contrary, outdated traditional role models have quickly re-enforced. While the childcare facilities and schools, as well as the facilities for the care of seniors, so-called day centres, and workshops for people with disabilities were closed, the women again took care of these people and did more and more unpaid work. It was mostly women who have now reduced their working time in order to comply with increased care obligations. A study by the Chamber of Workers and the Vienna University of Economics shows that, although the proportion of unpaid housework done by men has increased in recent decades, the unpaid work of women has not significantly reduced. This shows that, while men take on more and more tasks in the household, women's work tends to remain high. Thus, half a half-and-a-half-division cannot yet be a matter for a long time. The last time-use study in Austria was conducted in 2008/2009. We therefore urgently need more up-to-date figures to obtain meaningful data on the current distribution of paid and unpaid work between men and women. However, it is also important that Austria participates in the EU-wide study, because only in future can a gender paygap be identified, the high part-time rate among women and, subsequently, the low female pensions and then measures can be taken. So please, Mrs. Minister – oh, now there are no women – it would be urgent now to give this study a commission and work on it! We need this data. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e23707	Next speaker: Mrs Elisabeth Pfurtscheller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e23728	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear spectators! Yes, Mrs Nussbaum, I can tell you very precisely why we did not accept your request. That's the way you're doing with the opposition. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Now I just want to tell you the history of the time-use study. We launched a government programme in January 2020. In this is on page 191, we want to order and implement the time-use study. What's going on? – On 27.2.2020, about a month later, the SPÖ submits a request and intends to instruct us or the government to carry out a time-use study. Now I'm wondering, Don't you have any other ideas? Do you have the All the time out of our government program? I don't think you have to, you don't have to, and that's why we didn't accept this request either. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We have now declared for a year that a study will be commissioned. We have also taken them into account in the 2021 budget. Even after that, you have not stopped keeping us constantly from being commissioned to study the use of time. We have explained to you why this takes his time. It is now coming, and that is why we have now rejected these requests. After all, this gives you the chance to discuss this again here in plenary. So I would like to ask you very cordially: Just stop writing things out of our government program and then pretending to be newly invented demands from you! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] But now on the real topic, valued viewers! Get your hands on it! If I ask you now what you have done in the last two weeks, how much time you have spent on different activities, then you could not answer everyone, I think, from the bar. That's exactly what we should know. We should know who did what to implement evidence-based equality, women's and family policies, labour policy and much more. That is why it takes a time-consuming study to determine which activities will be carried out at what time and to what extent. That's what we've ordered. Statistics Austria will start the survey in autumn. The survey will take one year and the result will then be presented at the beginning of 2023. This gives us the opportunity to discuss and implement various policies based on evidence. As Mr Nussbaum has just said, the pandemic has strengthened the discussion about who is doing what work to what extent. Of course, this is mainly about family and care work, I am already very excited about the results. The last study of the use of time has been a long time ago. That was in 2008/2009. It is still very important to me, Madam President, to add a sentence that, of course, we need to do so in agreement with the EU rules or with the EU directives, which are called 'hetus'. After all, it is also a question of being able to compare within EU countries. This is what we are going to do now, and we are all looking forward to the results, as has been said. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e23800	Mrs Edith Mühlberghuber will speak next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e23828	Madam President. Mr President. Mrs. Minister's not here in the hall. – Yes, across Europe, time-consuming studies show how work is divided in the household – women care and clean, men are devoted to repair and maintenance. This is reflected in the last German study. But one question must already be allowed: What does a study that tells us during how many hours women and men do what work in the household? What does such a study bring us? What do such numbers bring us, what does this numbering material bring us? The partners in the families can organize themselves. I think they don't need the policy to do it, they can do it themselves. The decision on the distribution of tasks must also be made by the partners, the families, the children in the families alone and themselves. In such a study the impression arises that a cone is being driven into the couples, into the families, and through the corona crisis has already been enough driven in by the government, has already been split enough. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: Such a fool!]] We simply do not allow this in the families and in the partnerships. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We must not divide the paid and unpaid work and we must not play it against each other. Much more important would be to make the unpaid work visible and noticeable to all. We don't need surveys and figures, who does what, who cares for the child, who goes shopping, who does the official routes – who simply kicks the household – we simply don't need it. We give a very clear and clear rejection to a waste of time study because it is pointless, and it is also expensive. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With such a study, the government is wasting tax money and it certainly does not change the situation of women in our country. A study of the use of time does not lead a single mother to move forward. What we urgently need to do is to actively support women in poverty, to honor and upgrade the unpaid use of many Austrian women. We have to put money where it is urgently necessary, wherever it is needed, but certainly not for useless studies, with which only tax money is wasted. Reasonable would be the fair introduction of the tax money. I'm thinking about school starter and school starter money in September. This is paid together with the family allowance, 100 euros per child from six to 15 years of age. Children over 15 years of age who attend a secondary school who attends the gymnasium, who teach and attend the vocational school do not benefit from this achievement. These young people do not have their own incomes, and they often come from low-income families, so we must no longer allow these young people to be disadvantaged. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To this end, I put forward a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[19:03]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e23955	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, it is properly put in place and is therefore also under negotiation. It is now possible to speak. Meri Disoski. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e23983	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! What women's organisations, what feminist associations and scientists have been demanding for years, we are finally implementing this. Austria will participate in the EU-wide time collection, and that is really good. Mrs Mühlberghuber, when you ask: What does that bring us? Why is that important?, I can easily answer this: because the distribution of time is an absolute policy. Who likes a lot of time for paid work, for unpaid work This is a highly political issue, especially from a women's policy perspective. Why? – Well, quite simply: because this says a lot about ruling gender relations, about gender hierarchy and power structures in a society and because it is also obvious where there is an urgent political need for action. Time-use studies provide quantifiable information on the gender distribution of unpaid and paid child-education, care or family work, and also disclose the gender-specific distribution of paid employment. For example, they provide information on the necessary childcare or nursing facilities. Time-use studies are also the basis for so-called monetaryization studies. This, in turn, makes it possible to make the extent and value of unpaid work visible to the economy. These studies are, therefore, an important basis for policy in order to correct misdevelopments, which, for example, are caused by unfair distribution of care and therefore also by restricted access by women to the labour market. We know that paid and unpaid work is blatantly distributed between the sexes in Austria, namely, really blasphemous. In other words: Unpaid work is female. While two thirds of paid employment in Austria is combated by men, women do two thirds of unpaid work. On average, men work 16 hours a week unpaid, women twice as much, so 32 hours, and that is 32 hours for which they are not paid for, 32 hours that are later missing from the pension account, 32 hours, which often also lead to old age poverty. That is why we need this study because it will reveal: Where is the political need for action, where do we have to start? How can we get there with contemporary new parent-time models, with karenz models, but also with a reduction in working time where we want to go, namely a fairer distribution of paid and unpaid work? The last study – you've heard it – is twelve years old, that is, the data are outdated. However, evidence-based equality policy needs up-to-date qualitative data, and we are now getting it with this study. I am really pleased because in the last Federal Government, under the turquoise-blue Federal Government, an implementation of the time-use study has not been planned. I am all the more pleased that we have managed to convince our coalition partners of the need for it. I finish with two or three quick sentences. Think about it once: Time is the most precious thing we have in life. A day for all of us has only 24 hours, and it will finally be time for us to distribute it justly!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e24034	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the equal treatment committee and continue to complete the agenda. [[19:07:24]] 21. Point Report by the Equal Treatment Committee on Amendment 1511/A(E) by Mr Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues on women in the labour market – Action package for crisis management (902 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e24072	We're going to the 21st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mag.a. Dr.in Petra Oberrauner is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e24103	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! I should like to say to the item on the agenda 21 that: The SPÖ has submitted an application for a package of measures to address the crisis as regards the labour market for women. This request has also made the fate of 56 other applications, namely that it has been postponed and is therefore no longer existent. I really want to align my colleague Pfurtscheller: The application for the time-use study has also been submitted by us for the first time in 2018. But it doesn't matter who's bringing something in. It is important that it happens and that at the end of the day there is also a positive change in society on this issue for women. Structurally relevant it is already when you deal with ideas of others. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that not 100 percent of the voters have elected you, but only a part of it, and the other parts of the population who also pay taxes may also have a right to find their ideas in a programme if they are useful. What makes sense at the end of the day is assessed by whether action is taken, whether objectives are achieved and whether this is also controllable. I would like to point out that certain relevant points could simply not be taken into account by this rejection, for example the issue of the EPCs. Women's issues in this area are not at all complete. 52.3 percent of the EPUs are female and the EPUs have hit the crisis particularly strongly. They have been given particularly late and especially little money from the support measures allocated to Corona to survive. Anyone who has once had a business or is active in the economy knows, liquidity, in a time frame that is compatible, is vital. Unfortunately, this chance of survival has not been given to many, even though they have sold all their savings and things, and that is not really a subject in this direction. I would particularly like to address two things that have not been taken into account. I hope that the time recording study will bring not only a better distribution of working time, but also a better credit for the work done. An innovative access – which you can take over quietly, the main thing that will be implemented – would, for example, increase the unemployment benefit of women who have become unemployed because of Corona and stay at home because of the children because they take care of the child, because the kindergartens are too, or because they support home schooling. The time for women to spend innocently at home because the consequences of the corona crisis for the family are handled by them would be an innovative approach. These periods of retirement would also be an innovative approach. Then we don't just talk about who does what and who makes what free, but who does what and what you get for it. That would be equal treatment, equal rights, a modern concept in a modern society. I would like to mention two further points: To this day there is no reason, neither a moral nor a legalist or any other, why women deserve less for the same work. This is ancient, it has nothing to do with a modern society at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Please tell me how you will solve this! If you don't want to write this application, we'll write it so it'll come to law. That just can't be there, that's ridiculous! We do not need to ask, therefore, that is a human right for women and men; that is quite normal, because we do not need any discrimination. The second thing I would like to say: The women who are in top positions now have a disadvantage. There is not only the risk that they will have a baby, there could also be a crisis, and then they will be gone – for example, they cannot be included in a Supervisory Board. So let's think about it. Let us act innovatively and modernly and finally give Austria the position it deserves on this question! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e24160	Mrs Mag. Romana Deckenbacher. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e24184	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Seers! At this point I have already spoken of heroes, women who have done inhumane, superhuman things, and who have often been affected by extra burden. Entrepreneurs, farmers, women in trade, in services sectors, in systems-related professions and thousands of women in the public service have kept our system running in the crisis. Many women, especially in tourism, in the gastronomy, unfortunately God was increasingly affected by unemployment. At present, it is gratifying that 6 600 people have been reported less unemployed than in the previous week. In comparison with the previous year, unemployment decreased by almost 150,000 people. The unemployment rate in May is 7.8 percent for women, 7.5% for men. We hope, of course, that it will get much, much lower. The SPÖ’s request for “Women on the labour market – Action Package for crisis management” is before us. That's important, not a question. At the beginning, however, I would like to make one very clear, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: Since the beginning of the crisis, the Federal Government has put in place extensive measures to give women the best possible support in various situations. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Disoski and Mr Maurer on his work.]] Our Minister for Women and also the Minister for Labour are and have been in constant exchange. This is also seen in the focus of the AMS for women. For example, the planned AMS funding budget accounts for around 50 percent of the funding for women for 2020. I believe, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, that was in your mind, as far as I can imagine the request. We are talking here about a record budget for women on the labour market of EUR 60.5 million. If you have a I would like to remind you that in 151 women's advisory services across Austria, many jobs seeker women and girls have been specifically supported in a variety of ways. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Over 11 000 women have visited a women's centre, their participation in many, many training courses has increased their qualifications and thus their opportunity to be better integrated into the labour market. The financial provision of women's advisory services has also been increased by 12 percent in 2020 and by 3 percent in 2021. The CORONA work package with a volume of 700 million euros aims to train and continue job-seekers. First figures also show that women in particular benefit from this: Since the start, 55 percent of all participants have been women. The fact is that the claims in the above-mentioned application have already been fully implemented. There has never been so much financial support for women on the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, who demand one thing, but the Federal Government is acting!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e24242	The next speaker is Mrs Rosa Ecker. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e24263	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear colleagues here in the hall! Dear viewers in front of the TV sets or via live stream! Yes, we support the SPÖ's request. Another package of measures to address the crisis specifically for women in the labour market would be a good thing. Why? – Unemployment has fallen, yet today 368,000 people are still unemployed and 305,000 people are reported for short work, that is, not fully back in the work process. Yes, it will be better, but for women, the improvement in the labour market is less evident than for men. In the case of older and disadvantaged women, the decline in unemployment is even less noticeable. The number of long-term unemployed rose by about 20 percent in May compared to the previous year. Retraining and further training opportunities with women's policy focus are therefore more necessary than ever. Especially in rural areas, according to evaluated labour market data, nearly 70 000 women were looking for jobs in March, 65 percent more than in the previous year. The AMS suspects that women are often part of the marginal workforce and are first terminated – no na net. Trade, personal services, hotels and restaurants have been difficult among the lockdowns ordered by the government and will still need a long time to recover. You won't be able to set a margin for a long time if you don't need it. Private further education is difficult to finance for women, but especially in the field of digitalisation, because digitization will cost many women sooner than later. It would also be particularly important for us to increase unemployment benefit, because we do not need to discuss low female pensions here in this House, if at the same time we know that exactly those women who do not belong to the big earners have lost their job. She hits the loss twice: now without a job, later less pension. Longer unemployment means much less income and less pension in the future. Long-term unemployment increases the situation even more. ÖVP and Greens reject this request and therefore also a financial improvement, a better financial provision of women's advisory services. We have already heard this today, because a stable basic support is urgently needed. “It costs what it wants” – this applies to many things, but obviously not to the protection of women.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e24302	Mrs Mag. Meri Disoski. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e24327	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! We have discussed and debated the situation of women in the labour market here in the House over the past few months. That's good, right, and important. Why? – Because we know that women in the labour market still experience structural, gender discrimination in 2021. Let us think, for example, of the gender paygap which Mr Oberrauner rightly mentioned in her speech earlier. The gender paygap is shamefully high in Austria, it is still 20 percent. Women earn by 20 percent less than men in Austria, simply because they are women. What can we do about it? I think a look at Scandinavia is worth seeing, probably there is consensus among us. There are a lot of measures, including mandatory wage transparency. In this direction, it must go from my point of view and we also have discussions with the coalition partner, which we will surely deepen in the future. Why is it good that we are dealing here with the labour market situation of women on the current occasion? – Because we know that corona-related unemployment has also affected women more than men. What has the Federal Government done to address this problem? . It has taken quite a lot of social and labour market policies that address women in a very concrete and targeted manner. With the increase in the minimum pension and emergency aid, measures have been taken to ensure the social security of women. We have made sure that 50 percent of the AMS funds are again spent on women. The labour market foundation has a very clear women's focus and makes it possible to train and re-training in the federal states on a decentralised and really appropriate basis. With the Springboard initiative, we are going actively – and that is really important to me: active! – against long-term unemployment, in particular women. A package at this level is unique in the history of Austria, I can almost say, and this is quite right because exceptional situations, as it represents the corona pandemic, also demand extraordinary measures. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, do you notice anything if I so list these measures? The points I have just mentioned can also be found in your request, which are either implemented or implemented. You must notice this if you bring in these requests that we have already worked out some of this or have initiatives that are going in this direction, especially in implementation. If you have not noticed in Parliament, your colleagues in the federal states have already noticed that there is a large labour market policy initiative by the Federal Government, with which women's policy priorities are also possible. The SPÖ colleagues in the federal states are making the money available also likes to be media effective, because where do the funds of the Pflegungsstiftung in Vienna come from? – Of the 77 million euros of the Wiener Pflegestiftung, 55 million euros come from the Federal budget. At the press conferences of the Vienna city government, I probably missed the hint, but be it. In your application, you are also talking about precarious conditions of life for women to deal with. If that is such a concern for social democracy, please talk to your colleagues in Vienna! You have to imagine what they are doing: In the middle of the largest crisis in the Second Republic, NEOS and SPÖ reduce the minimum level of security in quick transit. How can you answer that? Who? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Your application also includes an increase in unemployment benefit. I should like to remind you once again that it was SPÖ-led federal governments that cut unemployment benefits step by step. That's what you have to answer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, Mr Ecker, when you come here and say that you want to make yourself strong for the unemployed, I do not even want to smile tiredly. In 2017, in the joint government agreement with the ÖVP, who announced a new unemployment benefit, which would have resulted in a reduction? Who was that? It wasn't us! That was the FPÖ. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With us Greens, there will at least be no such unsocial cuts.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e24415	Mrs Henrike Brandstöttergelanget. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e24439	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. I am not referring to Mr Disoski's polemics, but I am referring to the SPÖ's actual request regarding a women's labour market package as a package of measures for crisis management. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disoski]] We understand the intention, but we do not support all the measures you propose. I'm taking out a measure: The SPÖ would like to spend half of the AMS funds on women. What does the current situation look like? – Currently 149 623 women are reported for work and 167 337 men. So there are currently more men than women in the AMS, and nevertheless there is really a women's focus in training, on which we have also agreed and agreed. Currently 41 408 women and 33 992 men are in training, so there are significantly fewer men. But now, in principle, the means, regardless of the pandemic, of all the numbers and of all the needs to be fixed to 50 : 50, I do not think this is particularly done in any direction. But we have needed action at the AMS, colleague Oberrauner has addressed it directly: It's about the EPUs. More than 50 percent of the EPUs are female and the crisis is increasing the more than 300 000 EPUs in Austria. Many have to lock down, register bankruptcy, especially when the insolvency moratorium expires. Many have already given up, which shows the numbers from a request from me to Minister of Labour Kocher. In concrete terms, 10 122 persons had to give up their independence between March 2020 and February 2021 and have been replaced by an unemployed person. Two thirds of these over 10 000 persons are entitled to unemployment benefit. Third not. So that these people do not land directly in minimum security, with all the consequences, we propose an advance on unemployment benefit. What does that mean? – If you have to give up your independence in the current special situation, if you have to apply for insolvency, you should be able to acquire an out-of-tour right to unemployment benefit. Since unemployment benefits are, in principle, a contribution-financed insurance benefit, but in this case no contributions have been made, we must reverse the principle of insurance: The self-employed can now obtain unemployment benefit and the contributions will then be paid back by them at a later date. This possibility is to exist temporarily until the end of 2022. Second point: Self-employed people also rarely benefit from AMS training measures. So 9 513 of the 10 122 people currently unemployed have not received training. There's definitely air up from our point of view. There is a need for more training for self-employed people, and it would be possible to extend the business start-up programme. At the moment, self-employed people, i.e. people who have been self-employed in the last three years, or people who are in an ongoing execution or debt regulation procedure, are not allowed to participate. Now, people who were self-employed have to want to become self-employed again, between them being at the AMS, taking courses à la: How do I apply correctly? - We don't think that makes sense. These are two concrete proposals from us, how to help the EPUs and many women quickly get back on their feet to reboot. Dear ÖVP! Dear Greens! I didn't write a request because you're always saying you're gonna do everything before the ink's almost dry. These are two ways of directly implementing concrete proposals from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e24494	Mrs Mag. Maria Smodics-Neumann. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e24518	Mr President. Dear Mrs Edtstadler! You've spent the whole day with us now, in your dual function. Thank you very much for this input from 9 a.m. to now. Thanks a lot. Thank you, Mrs. Raab! I can also personally wish you all the good for birth, and especially the opportunity to enjoy this first moment, if you have your baby in your hand, as immediately as I was then able to do immediately after birth. That's one of the deepest feelings that I still have 21 years later, when I think about it. I wish you all that. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Disoski.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a representative of the economy, I am of course allowed to dedicate myself to the individual company in this request. I also have a little bit of statistics, because 60 percent of companies in Austria are individuals and 51.9% of them are run by women. Now I'd say that's actually a nice, balanced number. If you look at what the founding motives are, the reasons why you make yourself independent, then that's 80 percent: to be independent, to be free to choose, to 76 percent: to be able to realize yourself, and to achieve a flexible time layout at least almost 70 percent. I remember very well, one of my first speeches here in this House was on the Court of Auditors' report on the retirement age of national officials. The research carried out during the preparation for this speech – I can remember very carefully – has shown that the self-employed are, interestingly, the first thing to do is to reach the rule-pension age in good health. That is, independence is also a good provision. There are, of course, many programmes in the Chamber of Commerce with which we support and manage individual businesses. The operating aid, for example, has been available for many, many years, it comes to the tapet when there is an emergency situation in the operation, for example a birth or a longer illness. Then you can use the operating aid. Courses, seminars, training opportunities – for those individuals who need help in the self-employment, in the founding phase, in the further training phase, in the phase of the step to the first employee, there is also quite a lot. In my division in Vienna, trade and crafts, we have set up an industry-specific mentoring program. That is, an old master – starling – meets a young hero – starling – the same industry, they match and can share industry-specific experiences. This, of course, goes down to training. I would also like to give a brief example because it was present last week: Last week I was allowed to visit a member company, namely a painter's company – a master's company – because it won the Amazone Award of Girl Jumpboard. The document reads as follows: Painting company Andreas Leo Denner, master firm; this company is a young woman – starring – in crafts/technical professions and convinces by the following measures: extraordinary social commitment to the reception and accompanying of apprentices, role model within the industry, very valuable and family operating climate, high awareness of diversity and equality, active and comprehensive support for young people in the field of vocational orientation. Andreas Leo Denner is one of many who is not out of gender awareness, but just with natural access very much likes to hire girls in typical men's professions, as we all call them – which is also good. I am pleased when these programmes, which have existed for many, many years, finally reach out. I often have to take back myself that I do not give this joy to express, for example, when I see a car mechanic, because I think we need to be a little careful now that we do not pay less attention to the guy who is learning car mechanics than to the girl. We must value every individual specialist who produces Austria with an excellent training. It's hard sometimes, but I think we can take this path now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e24575	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the votes on the submissions of the Committee on Equal Opportunities. [[19:33:09]] Vote on agenda items 11 to 21
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e24605	We shall now come to the vote moved on the reports of the Committee on Equal Opportunities, which I shall make separately on each item on the agenda. Do the clubs wish to interrupt before the vote? – That is obviously not the case. We now come to the vote on item 11 of the resolution on the Committee's report, which is linked to the Committee's report 892, on "the collection of funds used by the Federal Government for measures to reduce violence against women and children, as well as for prevention work, including perpetrator work in the various ministries". I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[182/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 12: Proposal from the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of its report 893 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 13: Proposal from the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of its report 894 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 14: Proposal from the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of its report 895 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We are now voting on Agenda item 15, the resolution attached to the Committee's report 896 of the Supplements on 'Protection of intergender children and adolescents against medically unnecessary treatment of sexual characteristics'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. [[183/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 16: Proposal from the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of its report 897 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 17. We shall first vote on the request of the Committee on Equal Treatment to take note of its report 898 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 1600/A(E). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on the Committee's report 898 of the Supplements on the "Prohibition of treatment for minors and full-years whose consent is based on a lack of will aimed at changing sexual orientation". I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[184/E]] We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Nico Marchetti, Dr.in Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic, colleagues on the protection of LGBTQ rights in Europe. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by the majority. [[185/E]] We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Yannick Shetty, colleagues on “Condemning attacks on LGTIQ rights in Hungary.” I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 18. Proposal from the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of its report 899 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Edith Mühlberghuber, colleagues on 'School start-up fees for all primary and secondary school pupils'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 19: Proposal from the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of its report 900 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 20: Proposal from the Committee on Equal Treatment to take note of its report 901 of the Supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their agreement to do so with a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the vote on item 21 on the agenda. Proposal from the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of its 902 report of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[19:38:13]] 22. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (812 d.e._Other Organiser Environment Protocol to the Antarctic Treaty and Annexes I to V (903 d.b.) 23. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1576/A(E) by Mr Walter Rauch, ladies and gentlemen, on practical climate protection rather than ideologically driven social restructuring (906 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e24876	We now come to points 22 and 23 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Walter Rauch. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e24906	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear spectators in front of televisions and screens! Yes, practical climate protection instead of ideological society conversion – this is the topic I have put to the speaker today and also formulated as an application. Why? – Mrs. Federal Minister, with your actions and actions that you have taken in recent months or for more than a year, it is from our point of view only an ideological struggle in the climate and environmental protection sector that you are leading, and no scientific discussion of house understanding in the field of climate protection and also of nature conservation. I can also simply justify that. On the one hand, now is the massive increase in the NoVA, of which thousands of families, thousands of entrepreneurs are affected. This is only an Austrian tax, which is not available in any other state in Europe. This Austrian burden, which you have put into the race, will have to pay only the citizens at the end of the day, especially consumers. And in the direction of the ÖVP, which always condescends on the economic party, I must say: It is high time to confess once and for all what Your goals are and what you want to do in addition to the economy or the families. I bring examples: A VW Sharan, a typical family vehicle here in Austria, currently costs 38 100 euros; in 2024 it will cost 41 950 euros. This is a plus, a cost increase of 3 850 euros for the purchase of this car. At the same time, there is a NOVA increase for small and medium-sized enterprises. A car, a Fiat Ducato, currently costs 24 900 euros; in 2024 it will cost 46 000 euros – a plus of 21,000 euros. Now I ask you: Who will pay this extra charge at the end of the day? – The consumer! You are responsible for this and you are responsible for the fact that the final effect on one side of Austria's economic location is at risk and, on the other hand, this ideological, social-political conversion, which you are leading to in the race, will be pushed forward accordingly. [[towards Greens]] [[towards ÖVP]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Beak.]] If you come from the field of ÖVP, I know you're nervous. I understand, of course, because of your government situation, because of your chancellor and, and, At the same time, however, I do not understand you any more if you harm the economy accordingly. [[Abg. Jakob Schwarz: The economy helps!]] – “The economy is helping!” – I give you an example: The Magna chief in Graz, he won't be completely unknown to you, said: Quite simply, with additional loads I hike from Graz to the south, to Slovenia! - It's easy. That's 10,000 jobs! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] – You come from Styria yourself, and at your place I would come once at your own door and decide to do so sometime and then confess to it. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] So, of course, you are a very ideologically driven vehicle that has nothing to do with climate and environmental policy in the end. I still have to address an area, Mrs. Federal Minister: You always stress, you like to travel by train – this is very plausible – and want to delete the domestic flights in Austria. This concerns Graz, Linz, Innsbruck, Klagenfurt, all these cities, which are of course important for the individual countries, also for the economic location. Your Secretary of State, the Secretary of State in your own home – I have asked you about this – is flying from Vienna to Vorarlberg alone or to Innsbruck, on the way to his hometown, and I have to say: You should always come first in front of your own door, always start there before burdening the others. That's not what we imagine, and that's why: Away from this ideological climate policy and to the house mind!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e24973	Mrs Astrid Rössler is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e24997	Mr President. My topic is not the NoVA, but the Antarctica. Those who have heard the news of the last days know that the Arctic, i.e. the northern cap, melts much faster than expected and that we already know that this has a massive impact on the world climate. Today we are dealing with the Antarctic, namely the environmental protocol to the Antarctic Treaty. The environmental protocol was signed 30 years ago and is being ratified today. So after 30 years, the time was ripe, so to speak, for setting this important signal. This is an important signal for the Antarctic as an extremely sensitive ecosystem and also for the very different desires as regards the exploitation of the suspected or known raw materials there, together ensure the protection of these ecosystems worldwide. The environmental protocol is ratified by this Decision, and this is also a very important signal for the importance of international cooperation in environmental protection. Why this is so important, some details of this environmental protocol: It is specifically about the joint agreement on the type of protection mechanisms, not just a arbitral tribunal, to settle any disputes or disagreements, in particular on the conservation of species of animals and plants and very strict rules, which may be taken out at all, exclusively for scientific purposes which are not substitutable. The Annex II states – quite specifically – that no alien species can be caught, because these demarcated ecosystems can be severely damaged, especially by imported species. It is important that Appendix III is concerned with waste disposal. Waste of any kind must be fed in orderly treatment, there must be no combustion in the open – we know what air pollutants are then in store. It is also mentioned which substances are either prohibited or have to be removed at all, and further prohibited products which cannot be stored there or cannot be stored. Finally, Annex IV deals with the protection of marine waters, which substances must not be used. This relates in particular to shipping, pollution from oil, but also to the control of entries from waste. This is an extremely important protocol, and it is an important signal that this environmental protocol is ratified by today's Austrian decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e25043	Mrs Cornelia Ecker spoke. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e25067	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! In the 1970s, mining companies began to search for mineral raw materials in Antarctica. After this measure was announced, there was strong resistance, so the Antarctic Contracting States already wanted to conclude an agreement in 1980 to protect the environment in this area, with which Manko would continue to be allowed to reduce mineral raw materials. Negotiations failed, but the talks continued, and on 4 March the Commission adopted a proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. In October 1991, Austria signed the environmental protocol to the Antarctic Treaty, which was signed on 4 October 1991 with another 25 Antarctic Contracting States. January 1998 finally entered into force, seven years later. Today, as we have already heard, we are ratifying this protocol here in the House, which clearly sets out the strictest protection measures for the environment, which have ever been agreed upon for a region of the earth, and that is also good. This agreement also aims to prohibit the destruction of raw materials and to do everything possible to maintain the ecosystem around Antarctica. It also contains rules on the handling of waste, rules on the prevention of marine pollution, on the establishment of protected areas and on mandatory environmental impact assessments wherever human activities in the field of research or tourism are planned. But not only does this work have a comprehensive nature protection character, but it also has a peacekeeping function. It must not be forgotten that there has been a territorial conflict just around the territory of Antarctica for over 50 years. This was virtually frozen with the agreement. Thus, this area of the earth has become a nature reserve dedicated to peace, which is available to science. The creation of such an area was also a very special request of Austria at the time of the negotiation of the Treaty. ==References== The Contracting States adopted a resolution on the occasion of their birthday renewing the requirement to refrain from the commercial degradation of raw materials in this area of Antarctica. From my point of view, this is a very important step, because the raw materials on our planet are getting less and less, and there are areas that have to be protected from exploitation at all costs. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Antarctica is certainly one of the most sensitive areas on our earth that needs to be protected. Today's ratification of the environmental protocol is also an important sign for Austria. I am sure that with our positive decision in the House today, our local scientists can expand their research activities in this field, and this is also important in order to make a valuable contribution to the preservation of this unique ecosystem. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e25115	The next speaker is Mr Johannes Juryenschlager. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e25140	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have rejected Mr Rauch's request in the committee and will do so today, because if one speaks of having an ideology-free policy in environmental policy, that is, I think, wrong. We need ideology to move forward in environmental policy. We all have our ideologies, which have a lot to do with life's realities, which is why we have become politicians. That is to say, it is already wrong in principle. I would like to make this clear on the basis of an example: Recently, a study of the ÖAMTC around electric cars has been under discussion, in which the electric car is certified a very good balance sheet, which of course has to be supported. But, as it were, a preamble in the ÖAMTC article in the “trend” is – I quote –: “However, it’s still less clear whether and when an e-car calculates.” Clearly, “there will always be different bills for different needs. ” – That is exactly where we are in ideology, and that is exactly what the spectrum of environmental policy in this area shows, because it has to do with environmental policy when it comes to life realities. When it comes to the combustion engine, we have a total value of around 42 billion euros in the private property of Austrians, where we know: Durations from ten to 20 years, values that can be passed on, then the question is not whether it is good to have such a car or not, but the question is: How can we reduce those CO2 emissions that are the negative result? That's what I'm filling in. I think that is quite essential, because it is already a difference whether people live in the city or in the country, whether it is for private use or for construction vehicles, tractors et cetera, and finally how we control and control logistics. This is about the railway, about shipping and always about the issue of primary energy – as is the case with air traffic. You have referred to it: State Secretary Brunner is also on his way home by plane, of course on long distances. But this is about time-effectiveness, about time it should be available to citizens in Austria. [[Abg. Kassinger: It's all forbidden now!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] [[Abg. Kassinger:... he stays on the ground!]] He is one of the Federal Government's most important players for the fact that we can also use renewable energies in aviation by means of synthetic fuels, promote research projects and obtain mobility in the future, but with the aim of reducing CO2. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] This means that the path to a CO2-free future must also include the technology openness. We have easier and more complicated possibilities, and there are, of course, ideological conflicts between all political groups, but we have to stop looking at where you come together – to work out something in the end, which is always a matter in the government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoke]] At E10, for example, we could be faster in implementation, which is what we would wish for. We could already save 140 000 tonnes of CO2 tomorrow and 1.5 million tonnes of CO2 with alternative fuels in the long term. But this is also a matter of weighing this, and that is why it is important to advance the dialogue. Another example that would be positive on and on itself is hereinflated by the media – on orf.at for the Styria: In the future, the Asfinag wants to change the road signs to wooden signs where traffic is possible. This is very welcome, and I think it is also very, very essential to place on signs made of wood, only: The wooden sign itself is made of bamboo, and so to speak, the wrong path has already taken. That's where we have to look: If we have the goal of saving 400 tons of CO2 by the signs alone, we have to consider why we are driving programs to avoid the domestic forest, although we have wood, and in other countries, to shake the last panda bears from the bamboo abroad, in order to then introduce wooden signs to us. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with ÖVP and Greens.]] That, I believe, is important: to look closely, to define the objectives clearly – in which we agree –; and as far as the way is concerned, we have a lot of things together and take many successful steps.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e25215	The honourable Member is speaking. Yannick Shetty. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e25239	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing today, among other things, the FPÖ's request. We were quite surprised, because there are some sensible proposals – I will come later. We were also surprised, however, because, Mr Rauch, we have already discussed this in the committee – a few months ago, there was a FPÖ application entitled: Take all climate action back! - I hope I quoted this correctly. So I don't know where the FPÖ is going. Maybe you can make a fine cut in your communication strategy again, which is a little contradictory! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer]] However, I am pleased when at the end of this process you also come to the conclusion that we need climate change measures, since in the past – not now, I know – you have repeatedly denied climate change. So if you are at the end of the day at the position that we pull together at a strand, it is, I think, a good result, because at the end of the day we will need everyone. As I have said, I do not really know what I am going to do, but I would like to address a few points which are discussed in this motion. One point is the criticism of the NoVA, the NoVA reform. I can understand the criticism or see this nova reform – or perhaps better: the reflection – also very critical. Why? – Because it is neither environmentally controlling nor mature. Mrs Bundesminister, I have already asked you this in committee: Please explain to me why a Porsche Cayenne with 400 hp, which has installed a plug-in hybrid per forma, is less taxed than a family vehicle that may be used every two weeks for a family trip? That doesn't make any sense at all, it's not controlling and that's not a really evidence-based policy. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Smoking.]] That's much more to be classified in the PR show category. I also understand that this is necessary, because the successes in climate protection are rather waiting for themselves. However, this example also shows a difference between left and liberal climate policy. I think we can see that we agree on the goal, but we have differences in the way there. This cultural struggle, for example We don't share it against the car. Baning cars, prohibiting flying, prohibiting everything – this is not our approach. We believe that bans alone cannot combat climate change, as it needs more, for example, a genuinely thought-out CO2 tax reform. I've offered the bet – you still haven't accepted it! - whether she's really coming. I would like me to lose this bet because we need to ecologize the tax system. Even here we need more than just taxes above, we actually need a thoughtful tax revolution: on the one hand, massively reduce taxes, reduce taxes on labour, reduce additional labour costs, and on the other hand reward those who save CO2 and thus make their contribution with a CO2 tax. In conclusion: We have always heard: “the best of both worlds. ” Protecting climate, protecting borders, that's, I think, your division. The boundaries are hard protected, but the climate is not yet sufficient, and I would like us to see something more than nothing this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e25299	Mr Hermann Weratschnig. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e25321	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When I look at the NoVA critique in this way, the film “Planet of the Monkeys” strikes me. [[Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey!]] [[Further call at the ÖVP:Hello, hello!]] First part, closing image: The planet is destroyed, the Statue of Freedom is still left as a countrymark a coladosis. I see in front of me the last liberals with colleagues smoking with protests, and they are demonstrating against the NoVA. – We only have a planet, ladies and gentlemen, for which we must fight! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Strong.]] Practical environmental protection, practical climate protection: Yes, practical climate protection is absolutely necessary. From the global goals, through the federal government to the countries, to the budgets: Without the implementation of the objectives, there is virtually no climate protection. Practically, too, it also means providing durable, well-developed mobility, clean electricity, promoting regional economy, animal-friendly agriculture – that is practical, implemented climate protection. Practically, it also means: Nature conservation lives and experiences. Nature conservation, environmental protection and climate protection belong together, these are not contradictions. And from my point of view, it's very important: Nature conservation begins with all of us right at the doorstep, where it is about protecting our nature, our habitat. Climate protection is not only a political theory, but it remains all theory if we do not implement it practically. Two examples: It was called the transport billions and climate investment. The European Parliament, the European Parliament and the Council Transport concerns: The ÖBB Framework Plan with 17.5 billion euros has been titled here very often, but also the special funds for railway development from 2020 to 2024, for regional railways, for decarbonisation, for a lot of areas where the municipalities benefit. EUR 1.4 billion will be used for climate action. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Second point: Priority to climate investment. Let us look at the environmental promotions, let us also look at the investment premium! What if the investment premiums are not used for climate change measures now? – This is a very important area. Ladies and gentlemen, climate policy is not a mikado game, with the fear that anyone could move. It is also not a human-angrily non- and no chess game in which there is a need and a need for sacrifice, but it is an attitude and a practical policy based on science, in which we are called upon to implement the measures. Get out of the fossil era! Old thinking – Mrs Minister, you have been talking about it a lot – has been a long way off. It needs a boost forward, it needs decisive climate policy. Values FPÖ, don't be afraid! We will take you with us, even if it becomes a difficult orientation course. In the future, you have opportunities for many things that are still being debated here in plenary – I am thinking of the Renewable Development Act, I am thinking of the Climate Change Act, I am also thinking of many other eco-social progress and reforms that we are voting on here in plenary. You're all invited! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e25386	Next speaker is Member Andreas Kollross. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e25411	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Values listeners! I would also like to make a few comments on the FPÖ proposal, which does not only highlight uninteresting aspects and demands. But the title alone is one that I would like to contradict, namely: “practical climate protection instead of ideologically driven social conversion”. I believe that the problem we currently have in the Federal Government in terms of climate policy is less ideology, but the much bigger problem is that in this area far too little is going on, that there is simply a standstill on many issues and that climate policy is unfortunately also – and it seems to me that if I can say so – now rather than actual implementation. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] That is why a few specific comments are also made in this regard. Although there are many press releases, many announcements, there is little substance and little implementation in this area, and this criticism must be made by the government, also by the Greens, you too, Mrs Minister – I know that it has to do with the coalition partner – must already be liked. For example: Where exactly is the 1-2-3 ticket we've been listening to for a long time? If I remember correctly, it said: Well, at least in the first half of 2021 we will be so far. – I just want to remind you. Let's look at the calendar: The first half-year is over de facto. Where's the 1-2-3 ticket? Where is the ecological tax reform? Where is the directive for – you know, my horse from the Committee on the Environment – financially weak households regarding boiler exchange? Where are the climate targets? Where is the Climate Change Act, which clearly regulates how much and where in Austria we save CO2 and what measures do we take? Where's the repair bonus? . I know that we have a further agenda item on this issue today, and of course we welcome the fact that this has come to the agenda at least once. This was a long initiative of the colleague. Mr President, and you have now gone here, you have made a motion for a resolution and are now asking yourself to do something. But where is the law? Where are the deadlines for this? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] When will this be finally implemented in this area of repair bonus? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I could continue this infinitely far, but I think you just have to hold on at the end of the day: The climate crisis cannot be explained, the climate crisis does not concern itself with whether there are announcements or press conferences. – That was somehow the green lighthouse project. That's why you're in the government, so you're supposed to know everything else about what's happening over there, because you want to continue or continue to do so much in this climate protection area! [[in the direction of ÖVP]] This lighthouse project, however, is very slow in the light, the dusk switch is already pretty switched on. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e25480	Mag. Carmen Jeitler-Cincelli. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e25501	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President. Dear Walter Rauch! On the basis of the request and the handling with it, you can actually see the background that this one has, because if you just send out a speaker to the request, I think the seriousness is called into question. [[Abg. Deimek:... speaking time! But it's clear you'd have to think about it, not a question!]] I mentioned the subject of SDGs briefly today. The President-in-Office has given me about half a call for order, I think we were not quite clear. I've got half a good one, I'd just say. I was really irritated and felt totally hurt. In this SDG concept, there are a lot of fields inside where we have the opportunity to work precisely on it and to speak about it in an ideology-free way or neutrally. We have brought this into the presidency, Jörg Leichtfried has even referred to it as a parade example of intergroup parliamentary cooperation. And then you don't agree or say you weren't involved at all! – I feel totally sorry for that. I mean, I don't need the Susi-and-Strolchi-Romance right now, but I felt like we've got a really good bridge to each other, we've really talked, we're in communication with each other. I found this really bad and somehow annoying and sad. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Mr Kollross, I would just like to address the SPÖ: There are so many things. Werner Faymann was the municipal councillor of the city of Vienna in 2001 and at that time wanted to make Vienna a model for residential construction, namely in the area of environmental protection. And what's today? – You mentioned things in your speech: Removal of oil boilers. So, what's up? – The topic is 20 years old! [[Mr and Mr Kollross.]] I think we need to talk about what's going on today. We are still talking about the same issues 20 years later, and in part we have very similar approaches to our coalition partner, but in part we have different ones. For our target groups, of course, the permanent decommissioning of combustion engines is a matter, or, recently purchased, the removal of gas stations; even hybrid technology was questioned, whether it was happening. We simply believe that many of us do not want to live ascetically, but innovation is the force that can solve everything, and we fully trust in research, in industry. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Rössler.]] How do we now want to guarantee this minus 1.5 degree of global warming? [[Calls for Greens and SPÖ.]] How can we do that? – The answer is innovation – innovation up and down taxes, for all that goes in there. Climate protection must never cause emissions and companies to migrate. I'm here with you. It can't be. Industry a problem solver? – Let us rely on it – on it, on research! I would like to bring another quote from space, Apollo 13: Failure is not an option. - We don't have an option to fail there. This is our only planet we have, and we have to save it. I would also like to stress the positive attitude of Mrs Minister here: We'll do this! We often have our different viewpoints, but she says: We can do this, and I'm convinced: We'll do this! That's why, dear Walter, with all due respect: I think that this proposal is purely populism, because you've seen it, you don't mean it. I appreciate you, but in the field of environmental policy, I have to say, unfortunately: There's no smoke, too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e25563	Mr Lukas Hammer came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e25595	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! Mr President. Science tells us that if we continue as before, we are currently focusing on the fact that much of our planet is no longer habitable. I have two little daughters, I know many of you have children, too. My approach, my promise, also my motivation to go into politics, was to do everything for these children – my children, as well as all other children – to have a habitable planet. If that's my ideology: Well, then that's my ideology, from me, if you want to call it that. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Quite honestly – and that is what you have to listen to – I think it's the way we've seen it at the Corona crisis – these are very similar phenomena: You refuse to recognize scientific facts as such, and you refuse to act accordingly. It's about populism – I remember the self-test here with a corona test and Coca-Cola. It's about cheap populism, instead of really trying to work on concrete solutions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] We have now seen it in the Corona crisis: You went to the street, your party leader marched through the streets with Neonazis in Vienna instead of really participating in the fight against the corona crisis. [[Abg. Hauser: Such a fool!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] In the climate crisis it is exactly the same: They ridiculed young people who engage daily in the fight against the climate crisis rather than really cooperate constructively. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Deimek:... that would be too stupid for me!]] Quite honestly, regarding your criticism of the Minister in the field of mobility: Let's see what the last blue transport minister did: He has shortened the ÖBB framework plan to expand the rail network by 2 billion euros – 2 billion euros less! [[Abg. Smoking: What was the reason? What the reason! ... ridiculous!]] The Minister presented a record framework of 17.5 billion euros. They just talked about an Austrian public ticket. What's the minister doing? - She's putting it into practice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Dear SPÖ, perhaps talk Once again, with your colleagues in Burgenland and Vienna, we can actually implement the Austrian climate ticket this year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e25688	Mr Nikolaus Prinz spoke. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e25712	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Climate protection is really a matter for all of us, and it must be worth something to all of us. We can start with practical examples: I come from agriculture myself. If you look at the food and like to eat beef, you can see that beef from South America has a CO2 load of 84 kilograms of CO2 per kilogram of meat produced in Austria, it has a good 10 kilograms of CO2 load. This is climate protection in the small – or if one forms driving communities. [[Abg. Schnedlitz: That's why the Farmers' Federation imports earth apples from South Africa!]] We like to talk about public transport. This is important, but we must be aware that it is a difference whether you live in agglomerations, whether you live in the city, in Vienna, where you have a subway, or whether you live in the deepest forest or mill district – in the Mühlviertel, where I am at home. We will always need a certain individual traffic, but at the same time, of course, take appropriate steps, such as the 1-2-3 ticket, in which Upper Austria is fully involved in the future. In fact, Upper Austria is very exemplary in the field of climate protection, not only in the measures that the state government sets, but also in the economy: There are a lot of companies investing in climate technology, which ensures many jobs, and companies are actually active all over the world. Thus, Upper Austria is a show country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, in Upper Austria this is not quite about. There are also people like Landeshuppmann Stelzer at the top, who are just important to the subject and who are worth doing something there. But we must also be ready to think of electric cars – good history, no question, part of the solution, not just the solution! – to generate the electricity itself or to generate more electricity from natural resources. We need to think about storage power plants where water can be pumped up when you have electricity that you don't need, and as soon as you need electricity, it comes down again. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Then it makes sense – as an example. I think we could discuss this for a long time, and each one of us will think of something. Finally, we must be prepared to do something together so that the population can go along with it. It must be feasible. Dear colleague smoke, you can rely on it: In the past, the ÖVP has operated environmental and climate protection with reason and will continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e25763	The word comes from Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e25787	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It probably seems to be for the seers and In addition, some sort of curious, if it has far more than 30 degrees outside and we are discussing the Antarctic Environment Protocol here. Then there is often the comment: Well, don't you have any other worries? What are you discussing here in Parliament, which are far away somewhere? I have experienced this over the years repeatedly when we have talked about remote regions, the protection of polar bears – almost symbolic of climate change – and the displacement of the polar bear. Such a plush bear is very sweet and nice. At some point, people say: Yes, yes, the protection of the polar bear is important, but what is this about us in Austria? It is precisely this debate that needs to be held in order to create the impact that we have to do something here in our own country and that the world is also a village in a climate-political and especially climate-political perspective. A few examples should illustrate this: Recently, it was thought again in impressive documentation of the reactor-super-GAU in Chernobyl. Even though this is quite far away, the radioactive cloud has affected us very much here, as have many parts of the rest of the world. It was similar with Fukushima. Or you think of the plastic waste that is created here with us, which is created in the Asian space and that then – over 80 million tons of plastic waste! – appears in an area in the ocean, where never even a flankerl plastic was created. This goes down to Antarctica, where the melting of the glacier ice of sea level increases and then coastal regions in the Asian region, in the American region are threatened with flooding. That means: If we realize that what is happening in remote regions is very important, then a consciousness must arise to do something itself and also to motivate it positively. It has, of course, also changed the picture of opinion. People have become more aware that it is important to do something here for climate protection. A scientist from Boston University recently said when it came to the Antarctica state report: If we protect Antarctica, we protect ourselves. In this light, this environmental protocol is intended to protect supranationally a region that is, in fact, rich in resources and valuable substances. I can only quote here: It is said that there are 45 billion barrels of oil, 115 trillion cubic meters of natural gas, titanium, chrome, iron, copper, platinum and gold, so economically interesting. Nevertheless, the Convention provides that research should not be carried out here, but that this unique ecosystem should not be exploited. That is why we decide here because Austrian researchers are also interested in working on this issue. In this sense, there is support for this issue, even if the matter is far away. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e25831	Mr Joachim Schnabel came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e25860	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen in front of the monitors! The application of the Freedom Party is more of the same. More of the same, which is not supposed to be anything, more of the same, and more of the same that the climate crisis will not be dealt with yesterday and yesterday. I am glad that we, as coalition parties, are facing the challenge of climate change and are taking proactive measures here to transform Austria to leave our children and grandchildren a great environment. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, you are discussing more or less about petrol or diesel, we are discussing something else in the coalition. We are discussing electric motors or hydrogen drives, and this is the discussion that must be held when we talk about the energy form of the future when we talk about the drive form of the future. Last week I was with our head of state Hermann Schützenhofer at an operation with us in the South Styria, which has specialized in hydrogen technology; a relatively young company, 15 years old, and in the field of testing hydrogen tanks, hydrogen valves and the production of special valves among the top three companies in the world market – among the top three companies in the world market! This has shown me how far forward we are here in Austria in this technology. I would now like to take up hydrogen in my speech, because there is a great deal going on in this area. Europe is still the world market leader in this regard, and we have a lot of expertise and know-how in Europe. This world market leadership must not lose Europe. However, it is also important to design Austria as an industrial and high-tech location so that we are there. We must be there to create the energy transition. I know there is a discussion of hydrogen colouring, but at some point we will have enough regenerative hydrogen to create the energy transition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The cars in the passenger car sector will be very safe – the market does it – battery operators, but if it takes longer distances when it gets harder, we will also need the hydrogen as a drive form. We will need hydrogen in the area of truck transport, also in rail transport and to produce e-fuels, which will then also go into air traffic. Germany has already adopted a hydrogen strategy, and 9 billion euros will be invested there, for example in France, 7.5 billion euros. This would mean approximately 900 million to 1 billion euros in Austria. It is important to invest here. Thank you, Mrs Minister, for taking a first step in the EAG with 500 million euros. We must stick to this and continue to invest in our economy, in us as a research location, and I am looking for you to bring the hydrogen strategy to the very top of Austria in order to keep it at the forefront of this future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e25918	The next speaker is Mr Franz Hörl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e25948	Mr President. Minister! Niki Berlakovich, our former Environment Minister, has described it well: Why Antarctica Treaty, why do we deal with it? – Because we have to see climate protection and environmental protection globally and have to look at the whole thing, and this includes Austria having a 0.2 percent share in this problem – these are things that we simply cannot hide – and the European Union 10 percent. These are the sizes; that we need to do more is clear. I would just like to point out that we Austrians have actually had a long tradition as far as the Arctic is concerned. There was Mr. Carl Weyprecht and Julius Payer, who were in the second half of the 19th century. In the mid-19th century, they sought out in the North Pole, which Franz-Josef-Land had discovered and so named. There is also an island named after Count Wilczek, the former founder of the Vienna voluntary rescue company. So Austria has a long tradition, and so it was quite clear that 100 years later, under the first Minister for the Environment, Marlies Flemming, a black – or Turkish – one would say today, we signed this state agreement and signed the accompanying environmental protocol in 1999. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Today, we are adopting this State Treaty, this Agreement, which regulates human behaviour, the protection of species and, of course, the designation of protected areas, waste disposal and so on - a solidarity act of the State community, which we of course also need to support. We have excluded liability issues, since we have no intentions in the Antarctic at least in the next few years. But I would like to use my speaking time now to point out to you for the next days in summer, when it is quite, very warm, that there are wonderful areas between Dachstein and the Pitztal glacier, where you can relax, enjoy the cuisine that can enjoy regionality, and also visit glacier caves. You can go there with good conscience. Mrs. Klubobfrau Maurer, you know the Stubai glacier best, that's your home. You can use all of this and you can do it with good conscience. The Umweltbundesamt notes that holidays in Austria with skiing or also hiking in the summer are the same as those that have the lowest footprint, and I could list a whole list of what we do for it. With you, Minister of State, I would like to thank you. Your initiative with the sleeping weights or with the car journeys, which you have personally tried to do until Amsterdam, where you have demonstrated this, have been driving around in Amsterdam by bicycle and have shown the high value of environmental protection and mobility for you, has also benefited Austrian tourism. Thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Good advice: When it gets warm, drive to the glacier, recover at the glacier, use it and do it with good conscience, because glaciers also have an economic value!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e26000	Mr Michael Schnedlitz has now been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e26024	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I just need to clear up some stories here from the previous speakers. have been noted. If you come to the speaker's desk here and say that the Freedom Party would accept scientific facts in the same way as in the case of the Corona policy, we would not accept scientific facts, as you have quoted it or, at least, have said, I can only say: That's not true, is it? Only our policy is not alternative, with us this one positive does not exclude itself by the other positive. For example, when one takes the corona policy: We do not exclude the protection of health and the protection of freedom, the rule of law and human dignity. When you look at the environment: We don't work with bans. We do not like to say that climate protection is alternatives and that is why it is necessary to work with bans. Today we have heard from the ÖVP how much the cars are worth – several billions. Working with expropriation fantasies? - No! We say there must be alternatives, alternatives with home mind, which protect both our planet and the environment and, on the other hand, leave money for people to live, guarantee commuters the opportunity to have a car, also in the rural regions, and so on. Only two more things to conclude: Especially perfide – and we do not play with that – is the announcement policy of this government. It is already moving throughout the day and throughout the entire period of government. If an ÖVP representative says here, especially with food, you can really move something in terms of regionality and regional consumption, then we agree, that is absolutely right. What you're not saying is that it was just a farmer's alliance, an entrepreneur from Tyrol, who, although we have tons and abertons, has hundreds of thousands of tons of earth apples with us in Austria to do business, imported potatoes from Africa. If, for example, an ÖVP representative addresses nuclear power problems and Chernobyl: Ladies and gentlemen, Chernobyl is 1,000 kilometres away, and yes, it was tragic. You have even committed yourself to the government program that you would do anything to prevent the reactor operation in Mochovce. But what did you do? – I have to tell you, and in this case we even share the opinion of Global 2000: Nothing you do, too little do you! I have to tell you: We stand for a clear policy that it is better for people to know that the environment is of course also better. For us these things do not exclude each other. We don't like announcements, we think something about politics with house mind that is acting.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e26067	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the negotiations on the presentation of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and I continue to complete the agenda. [[20:29:37]] 24. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1552/A(E) by Mr Walter Rauch, colleagues on Federal Repair Bonus (904 d.B.) 25. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 689/A(E) by Mrs Julia Elisabeth Mr, ladies and gentlemen, on the introduction of a repair premium of 300 euros per year (905 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e26118	We now come to points 24 and 25 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Julia Elisabeth, Lord. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e26148	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Environment Minister! We have already heard about the topic today: It is about repairs, and I am pleased to say that today, at the request of the ÖVP, the Greens, but also the SPÖ, we decide on a national repair bonus of up to 200 euros, which in the future will be able to redeem all those who choose to have an electric device repaired instead of throwing it away. By repairing this, because this reuse not only saves valuable resources and materials, no, we also reduce our CO2 emissions and – also important in the crisis – we can of course support domestic repair companies and create additional jobs with these incentives. All this is important, and I also say that it is sometimes worth staying on: The first time we made this request was about a year ago, on 17 November. July. At the time, the government parties postponed my request. We did not let him down and put him back on the agenda three months later. There he was postponed again, but at the third time the government also changed its opinion and then also decided to make the repair bonus possible. This is in any case a positive development, as it pays off to stay on it for a year, and I am pleased that we can decide today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, what I have to say – my colleague Kollross has already mentioned it: This is just as much an invitation to the Federal Government without a deadline – it is missing. But for a year we have been talking about it, we will not continue to let go of it, and I assume that we will be able to implement it quickly, because the effect is also so remarkable: If we were to use all the washing machines, vacuum cleaners, laptops and smartphones within the European Union for only a year longer – all these electrical appliances would take a year longer – we could save as many tons of CO2, namely 4 million, than two million cars a year. Here we see how much is actually possible, how important this is. The City Vienna also successfully shows how to implement such a thing, there is already this repair bonus. Many people have also used this within three months: There were 8,000 electric appliances that were repaired instead of being thrown away, and that saved 190 tons of CO2 alone in Vienna, and that is, I think, gratifying. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Is that enough now? – No, of course not! We must continue on this issue too. It's clear: Today, products are often produced in such a way that they cannot be repaired at all! At the I-phone, if we remember earlier, you could still take the battery out. I can't do that anymore! These companies have no interest in repairing because they want to throw away and something new is bought, because with every new purchase there is turnover, there is also profit – but that is not sustainable. We need a right to repair. It must be clear when there are spare parts, where they are available and that repair is possible. Long-lived products are needed for consumers, in which it is also perfectly clear: We need to set new product standards! That means: Yes, today the repair bonus is a first step, but as a next step – I hope throughout the EU – a right to repair and mandatory regulations must follow, which products really need to be able to do in order for them to be useful to consumers – not in the short term, but in the long term, because that is sustainable. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e26209	Mrs Astrid Rössler is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e26233	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! After this enthusiasm of my colleague, whom you cannot escape at all, which I can only share with full enthusiasm, I would nevertheless only say very tenderly that the repair bonus is already in the government programme and not was invented by you, my colleague, but he has been a practical programme from the very beginning. There is already him in other federal states, we have had the experience – I have already quoted that a few times – in Salzburg for at least two years. I also mentioned the numbers. Nor should the experiences diminish that this is an issue that unites us. I am also glad that we agree, because some things are not quite that easy, and I will not let go of them and never tire of trying to get as far as possible to agree on all parties in terms of environmental protection and to overcome each other in their wishes. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The repair bonus has proved itself, and now the 130 million euros have been added by the RRF funds. And the time is fixed, my colleague. With 1.1.2022 he was already fixed and should come up until this time. And that's what's going on: The best of all systems are to prevail; the Vienna system is particularly easy to use, and from these experiences with different federal states it is clear that the Vienna system is to be adopted. On this issue, that repair equipment saves and reduces waste – a classic measure of waste prevention, waste reduction – is of course still a giant, and this is also an important building block in the overall context of resource savings, the prevention of waste, longer life. That giant is part of the AWG novelle is also an important part. In the future, 5 percent of the redundancies for electronics and electrical appliances will be binding every year in such projects for giants – giants and repairs. This too is an important contribution. What is also important to us in this context is not only the right to repair, the right to spare parts, the right to instructions, but also the right that the spare parts can be exchanged and installed with household tools. It does nothing if you have great spare parts, if you want more expensive tools needed to install them at all. That's part of it, too. Thank God for that, too, the EU. However, it will also be important in the field of research and development for the circular economy to improve product design from the outset so that it becomes repair-friendly and exchange-friendly and the fabric cycle is easier to close, so that if we use products longer, we can also repair them better, but at the end of their useful life we can also disassemble them more easily and use and recycle the contained substances. All in all, it is gratifying that this repair bonus is now worn and supported by all parties. A final sentence in the direction of Mr Kollross on the subject, and do not take serious action against climate change: I would just like to say critically that what has been changed and softened there is unfortunately contrary to all the intentions of climate protection and climate-friendly spatial planning. Please be a little careful if you only speak of announcements!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e26294	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Gerhard Deimek. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e26319	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I may start with the following: Mr President, with the words of your colleague, Mrs Kollross, I can correct you a little: We do not decide the bonus or the model, we decide, as the colleague said, that the government parties themselves call for. – Is funny, is legal, is so – good. In terms of content, we are there and we have also presented a corresponding request ourselves, which unfortunately was overrun with the §-27 request. We have been concerned about quickly finding a good model – with the Wiener Modell, which is good, which also comes quickly to the citizens, and which, above all, achieves the purposes, namely the ecological, the consumer protection objective and, of course, a social goal. You have to imagine: Where it works – these are people who do not have our incomes, but who perhaps need to get up net for three people at 1 000 euros – these are all investments; and if these investments, regardless of whether household appliances, tools, electronics and so on, do not reach the expected age of life, then these people have a problem. Therefore, in addition to the environmental and other objectives, it is important to create a reasonable model quickly. I'm not saying now that Vienna has the best model. Mr Rössler referred to the Salzburg model. Yes, if there are better models there, then you have to do it. I don't know exactly, I don't know the Salzburg model. It is only important – and I am now taking Mrs. Rössler into consideration; You will remember what counted when you were part of the executive as a councillor –: Not the Sunday speeches have counted, have counted what you have done as when, what costs and benefits it has brought to the citizens. In this case, it is the same. We say now, okay, let's take a look at what's going to be in the next review, what's going to happen, and then we can measure: What comes when, what costs does this cause and what benefits does it have? If the result corresponds, we will also go along. If it does not match if it: There is no cost, but there is no benefit either, then we will put our fingers in the wounds again. I was also pleased that a Green Representative said: The best model should prevail! – I call technology neutrality, and I would like this technology or model neutrality to be received everywhere in the greens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e26361	Mrs Mag.a Maria Smodics-Neumann. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e26385	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! If I want to change my behavior, then motivation is clearly the more sustainable driving force – in a double sense: longer lasting and sustainable for the environment – than if one expresses bans. I would like to put that forward, and that is why I am pleased with this project. Repair instead of discarding in the form of promotion rather than prohibiting can only be supported. Mr Rössler has already said that it is also part of the government programme, and there are, of course, the commercial and craft industries in question. As a representative for commerce and craftsmanship, we already discussed this in 2018. The possibility of repair is always in the Genesis of the manufacturing plants. We then set a focus in 2019 and extended the company-a-bis-Z of the Vienna Chamber of Commerce by the button repair. That is, you can already ask about clicking on the Repair button to find various industries and companies that offer repairs. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I think it's important that there are models in different forms. Now we have a little bit of the competition of the better models. Mrs. Federal Minister, the important thing will not be the fact that it is coming – I think we all agree that this is a very meaningful story – but will be important as to how the model is designed. It is particularly important for me to point out one thing – Mr Deimek, I believe that you do not have the comprehensive information of the Vienna model, which I can understand, because it is very, very difficult to get to the bottom of it; but since we are suppliers of the Vienna model as a trade and craftsmanship, I am a little deeper inside it – one thing bothers me quite a lot: This model excludes individual craftsmanships, i.e. not only individual, but of these 250 possibilities, only 19 commercial firms in the Vienna model are actually depicted, because there is the limitation that these companies must be a member of the repair network. The repair network, however, is a project of environmental advice in Vienna, says the Magistrate. There is an association, a project repair network, and only those who are a member there will enjoy the repair voucher. This is a massive disparity for me. I am also constantly in exchange with environmental advice. The Council of the City has not yet managed to get in touch with me in time because of corona, but we can still do so. So I think the key to happiness will be how the model is designed and how it will be implemented so that we can have comprehensive offers so that masterly, professionally-tested companies can offer what is just about electronic equipment. Above all, These companies are also those who train apprentices. It is therefore important to draw attention, in training, to the issue of repairs, to step up the way young people are confronted with the issue, with the feeling that young people are already much more advanced than perhaps some others. That is why I believe that if you do it well, everyone can win: consumers, trainees, the economy. Value added remains in Austria, jobs could be safeguarded or expanded, and, of course, with the change in behaviour, the environment wins.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e26440	Mrs. Leonore Geessler has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e26461	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors, even at so later hour! I am very pleased about the great consensus on this topic in the house and that the topic of circular economy – i.e. the subject of changing our economic base to a system that comes with a planet by bringing our resources into the circle – and this measure to the circular economy here in the house has such great support. Indeed, the circular economy is one of the key issues at EU level. Mrs Rössler said: There we have the circular economy action plan, in which the issue of repair is a very central one. It is about a right to repair to extend warranty periods, the need for spare parts to be actually provided – that is, a milestone in product policy in Europe. We are generally working on a new set-up of product policy. First test case, so to speak, is the battery regulation, which is precisely about having the ecological issues in view throughout the life cycle, having the social issues in mind and really acting along the Hierarchy Giant and Recycle. There's a lot going on at European level right now. We support this nationally with a circular economy strategy that we are working on in the BMK. We have – and we have discussed this several times here in the house – started to reduce VAT on smaller repairs. We have fully exploited the framework provided by the EU Value Added Tax Directive for this tax reduction. However, this EU directive also has a border, namely: Repairs of electrical appliances cannot be promoted via VAT. To do this, we need other models, and this other model we're getting on the way with this repair bonus. We foresee the promotion of the repair of electrical and electronic equipment as a measure in the Austrian construction and resilience plan 2020 to 2026. The total budget is 130 million euros, which is a big budget, and that is good. We have already talked about the many federal models available for these repair bonuses. The first one was my knowledge in Upper Austria, Rudi Anschhober brought it in at the time. The repair bonus in Upper Austria was actually one of the most successful national promotions in Upper Austria ever, there were tens of thousands of applications, so enormous demand. And it is good that this is requested because the extension of the life of products is an essential Contribution to waste prevention, to resource conservation, but also, of course, to the reduction of emissions. It is important not to forget that production and disposal are the largest share of CO2 emissions in most products, and therefore the extension of the life-cycle and the in-circuit management are such a central contribution to climate protection. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, we currently have the situation that the incentive to repair is too low; we have discussed it in the Committee. This has many different reasons, but one of the reasons is definitely that there is often too little price difference between repair and repurchasing, that there is a lack of repair possibilities, that the spare parts are missing or that there are simply information deficits. The promotion of repairs for consumers is intended to remedy many of these issues, to strengthen awareness, and – we also see this from the example of Upper Austria – it also helps to boost the repair industry in a sustainable way. Jobs have been created in repair companies. These are often socio-economic enterprises that give people a chance on the second labour market. These are often non-profit initiatives, but they are also a very important economic factor. There were a few questions to make the promotion more concrete. Mr Kollross, you asked me: When's the law coming? When's the novelle coming? – The Federal Financial Framework Act was introduced in April and adopted here in May. The budget cover for 2022 has already been decided on. We will implement the bonus with the AWS, we are currently working on the design of the directive for it, and what we are going to do is to create a uniform promotion across the country. The federal states have so far differently designed the funding, and we want a uniform national funding of up to 50 percent of the costs up to a maximum of 200 euros. Because Mr Deimek referred to me that there are, so to speak, different models: Yes, that is true, but my access to many of the political issues is that we are looking for the best model – that is not a neutral question, that is often a decision-making question – and we are working on this model right now. The aim is to provide targeted, as efficiently as possible, support with large-scale IT support, so that the administrative burden is kept as low as possible for both the beneficiary, the beneficiary and the receiving body. I have heard the feedback to Vienna and will also take this into account in the implementation. In fact, we have the idea of leaning on the repair bonus on the Wiener Modell, because it offers a very easy handling directly in the repair workshop by means of a downloadable voucher and the redemption. The experience we have gained in the federal states will, of course, involve us in the concrete design, because we can learn a lot from it. One thing I can say: We have also clarified the issue of the deadline in the National Development and Resilience Plan. In fact, we have registered the start of the promotion with 1.1.2022, and we will implement it exactly that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e26531	Mr President, I should like to make a point of order. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e26561	Mr President. In her speech, Mr Smodics-Neumann said that the Vienna model of the repair bonus would almost exclude individual businesses, and he presented it as if there were arbitrary exclusion criteria. I'm actually correcting: These are quality criteria that are applied. For example, it must be guaranteed that a certain percentage of jobs really serve to repair, so that it is not actually about the sale of new goods, or that the company concerned does not offer, for example, just one brand, so that it is really universal also about a repair company, or that, for example, the creation of cost estimates should not exceed a certain limit, because it is about achieving a good result for consumers. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That means there are qualitative criteria and no arbitrariness. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e26604	I call Mr Robert Laimer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e26629	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Minister! Repair instead of discarding: If this idea were followed, much unnecessary electrical scrap could be avoided and resource consumption would be reduced. At the moment, however, this approach is just a niche programme. We are therefore responsible for putting this approach even more into the environmental, economic and social focus and making it visible to the public. This could also provide the circular economy with the necessary impetus to increase its overall importance. To the repair bonus, I think, we can agree on the minimum compromise that there is no ready law yet, Mrs. Minister. Repair instead of repurchasing also means questioning old habits. If one considers that more than 2.5 billion tonnes of waste are produced each year within the European Union, it is concluded that the consumer and disposable society has long been at its borders and has exceeded red lines. It would not be so complicated to establish a resource-efficient economy. Many products could be much longer in use if manufacturers did not artificially reduce the lifetime of goods by means of planned obsolescences. Similarly, various types of products were preserved longer by repair measures. Resource conservation would also contribute to all recycling measures that would hold materials for a long time in the cycle of the economy. In these areas there is still plenty of air up. All those of us who waited and repaired their television devices and stereo systems before the age of the excessive disposable society know that a TV device had an average lifetime of more than ten years and was only disposed of when the image tube was broken. I know that sounds very retro today, but it was the case before the Millennium. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to point out that it is time – we are waiting almost half a year for it – to achieve a socially just climate target that must pave the way for mandatory climate neutrality. But it doesn't happen until now. Should we wait at the CO2 reduction for the World Saving Day? One has the impression that green energy and environmental policy is constantly turning around and does not provide enough and consistent for, for example, innovative circular economy, an energy transition and also a rapid reduction of the plastic flood. As the Republic of Austria, we are also there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e26671	The next speaker is Mr Michael Bernhard. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e26695	Mr President. Appreciate women ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! We are essentially talking about why it is often easier and more desirable for consumers to buy something new than to repair something, and we are discussing this, because it was dealt with in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, exclusively from an environmental perspective. There is no speaker in this round and no speaker has raised a very central issue, and this issue is: Why is it so much more expensive to repair than to buy again? – This is not because people want to always have the new and shiny – there’s a trend to repair anyway – but it’s because if you want to pay 1 hour of a craftsman, you have to work 5 hours for it. That's the main problem. One of the topics is: In Austria there is a lot too high a burden on wages, on incomes and on additional labour costs. I've just looked at a comparison – and now we're not talking about Fernando and other areas –: Where is Austria within the European Union? – I hope you can see it in third place. [[Keeping a document in height]] Before us are Sweden and France. We stand at 100 euros each, which we pay to an employee, at extra wage costs of 41 euros. Of comparable countries – I am now speaking of comparable countries – about Germany is 27 euros, Finland, which is also often mentioned in the environmental field, at 23 euros, the Netherlands at half, namely 21 euros, Denmark at 15 euros. We would rather leave Luxembourg away, because there is a slightly different tax logic there. What I want to say is: That's 40 percent extra charge on what people deserve with us! Then, of course, it's very expensive to have a repair done. If you compare this not only with European countries, but internationally, then of course, quite different values come true. The second reason why it is so expensive is that Austria focuses entirely on the taxation of work. There is a festival of joy, if anyone can again offer a tax reform and thus only sells, so to speak, the billing of cold progression. In reality, however, one would have to introduce a CO2 tax and a CO2-limit compensation – or it could also be any other form in the CO2 range, that does not matter – and to do so, it would be a massive relief. Then you create a fair balance between those who repair and those who perhaps produce far away and then import to Austria. This is a very central element, but it is not addressed here. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The third point that comes in is: Even if you come to the idea, you really want to fix it, then – and you can often experience it in person – you have the problem of having an enormously long wait. Unfortunately, at the moment they are not waiting for us, but often in such a way that they are massively overbooked. This is because they are limited in growth, for a simple reason: because they do not find professionals. Look for a craftsman or a craftsman today, a person who is well-trained and freely available on the labour market! There's no such thing as that. Therefore: There are far too high additional wage costs. Each government has been responsible for this since the beginning of the Second Republic, including it. There is no taxation on resources and far too high taxation on work, and there is, on the third, a shortage of skilled workers. All three are topics that are not environmental-political, but can affect Austria itself. This is not a moral appreciation, when what is right and when what is wrong, but the state is pointing in the wrong direction with all its actions. That is why – and this is now the big curve to the point why we still agree –: There is a claping wound through a decades of false politics, Mrs. Minister, and now you take an admitted good idea from the red-pink city government in Vienna, a repair bonus, and stick a mickey patch to this claping wound instead of addressing these great reforms. It should be the objective of an economic minister – not your goal as a climate and environmental minister – to work towards the fact that the economy can really slow down, it should be the goal of a finance minister not to chat but to make a tax reform, and it should be your goal to introduce a CO2 tax and to reduce labour costs for it; then we would also have the repair in the bag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e26756	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the European People's Party (Christian - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e26780	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, repair bonus: My colleague, Mr Bernhard, has just put a little something on my mind. He has given attention to the additional wage costs in the repair process, and I would like to take this up a bit. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] In principle, it is, of course, right that the level of additional wage costs in repairing is a problem if you have a very high amount of work. However, when repairing small appliances, the problem does not necessarily lie in the financing of the costs of repair, because spare part cost problems also play a very strong role and only the reduction in the additional wage costs does not make repairs economic. A small example: I had a broken printer, that's where the print head came in. The printer had cost 90 euros at the time. Then I wanted to replace the print head and have been looking for a long time until I even found a spare part. Then the thing would have cost 65 euros, just the print head. It then fails that spare parts simply cost so much, and therefore this repair bonus, which can bear total costs, as it is now set, is quite, very important. Here we see: We must ensure that the spare parts are available first, second, we also have a reasonable price and hopefully we also have products that are high-quality and long-lasting. With this repair bonus, we will succeed in leaving the Austrians many hundred million euros. These can hopefully also invest in high-quality devices. My colleague, Ulli Fischer, was with Sepp Eisenriegler in the repair and service center, and I had the opportunity to get to know Sepp Eisenriegler. He's bringing a very interesting example. He says: If you want to wash 20 years of laundry, you have the possibility to buy a washing machine that costs between 800 and 900 euros, which usually lasts the 20 years or only needs small repairs, or you buy seven washing machines by 300 euros, where the plastic drums are broken after three years, because you can't expect more than three years of service. You then spent seven times 300 euros in the same time and the double of that invested in the washing machine, which would have cost a durable, high-quality washing machine. Of course, this high-quality washing machine can also be financed significantly economically. The 300-euro washing machine is usually something that immediately gets onto the trash. I may add to the Ecodesign Directive: There are also mobile phones where you can not only switch the battery, but also buy any spare part, camera and so on, and therefore you should also pay some attention to the product choice. [[Keeping a mobile phone up]] I am also a great friend of digitization, because digitization helps to repair these parts partly without special tools, and therefore I look forward to promoting repair and also triggering the necessary motivation for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e26831	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[21:05:40]] Vote on agenda items 22 to 25
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e26856	We shall come to the vote on the agenda items of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I may ask: Can we go into the voting process? ÖVP? FPÖ? NEOS? Green? SPÖ? - Okay. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 22: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the conclusion of the State Treaty: Environment Protocol to the Antarctic Treaty and Annexes I to V, in 812 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I now turn to the proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, according to which this State contract is in accordance with the nature. Paragraph 50 2 Z 4 Federal Constitutional Act by passed laws to be complied with. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – That too is unanimous. Agenda item 23: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 906 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Agenda item 24: We shall first vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 904 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 1552/A(E). Whoever does this, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on 'Repairing instead of discarding' attached to the Committee's report 904 of the Supplements. Austria-wide promotion of repairs’. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[186/E]] We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 25: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 905 of the supplements. Whoever does this, may show it with a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[21:07:55]] 26. Point Report by the Budget Committee on Amendment 1686/A by Mr Peter Haubner, Dr Elisabeth Götze, colleagues on a federal law amending the Federal Law on the establishment of a hardening fund (Härtefallfondsgesetz) (933 d.b.) 27. Point Report by the Budget Committee on Amendment 1653/A by Mrs Gabriel Obernosterer, Dr Elisabeth Götze, colleagues on a federal law amending the SME Funding Act and the Guarantee Act 1977 (934, B.B.) 28. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 1669/A by Mr Gabriel Obernosterer, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, BA, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act 1988, the Income Tax Act 1994 and the Alcohol Tax Act (935 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e26999	We now come to Agenda items 26 to 28, on which the debates will be carried out again under one. I should like to thank Mrs Geessler for his presence and welcome the Minister for Finance. Mrs Schramböck's Minister for Economic Affairs remains. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Deputy Krainer. I can give him the word. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e27029	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Blümel, would you lend me your ear or not? We can also interrupt the meeting if the Minister of Finance does not have time for the debate. [[in the direction of Federal Minister Blümel, with Abg. Engelberg speaks]] You were not here today in the debate on the ministerial settlement against you. There was an interesting debate. I have said here that you still have the knowledge of the Constitutional Court of Justice of the 3rd. In the meantime, in the Second Republic, the Federal President did not even conduct an execution procedure against a minister in office. [[Abg. Eßl: What do we have for a topic?]] Apparently, Mr. Gerstl trusts you so blind that he even came out and claimed that what I said would be wrong. And there, two hours later, I get an e-mail from you, and you know what's in there? – That by a mistake you have not yet supplied all the files and documents you would have had to deliver, because you were sent to the Constitutional Court to do so on 3 July. In March, it was agreed that the Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. [[Abg. Hörl: I want him to talk about it!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] You haven't delivered that yet! They've announced it's still being delivered today. At least today, at least we have no confirmation from Parliament's management. ==References====External links== June, and you still have the knowledge of the Constitutional Court of 3 June. ==References====External links== In the meantime you admit it and say: It was a mistake, an error, that we have not yet delivered all the files and documents. – I say to you: Minister, that's not how it is! Our patience is exhausted! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will still have the opportunity to debate this today. You are most welcome because we are debating the follow-up time of the Committee of Inquiry today. We know all of this from the European Championship: If a team slows down time, then it's counted, then there's a replay time, and in the history of investigation committees, never has anyone delayed as much time as you and Federal Chancellor Kurz. [[Call the ÖVP: Tagesordnung!]] We insist on this follow-up time. We will still be able to debate today whether it really comes at this post-examination period or whether a majority here in this House seriously accepts this procedure that a minister on 16 May. June says: By an error and by a mistake, I still haven't delivered all the files and documents I've delivered since 3. The Constitutional Court of First Instance should have been obliged to deliver on its part. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] We'll see if a majority really says: Yes, we and this process we cover! or whether a majority here in the house says: No, that's too far! – You too, Mr Hanger, may go a little too far at some point, for believe me one thing: [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hanger.]] Mr Blümel is ready to go so far that it is too far for you. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] On the subject of the current debate: We are extending a number of aid measures concerning the crisis. [[Abg. Hanger:... is on the agenda!]] That is good and right, we agree. But the question – and that is an essential question; Mr. Hanger, I know she's not interested in you – is: Who, in the end, pays for this crisis? [[Abg. Hanger: I'm excited when he comes back...!]] Because of our present tax structure, we know that more than 80 percent of our taxes are based on taxes on work and consumption, we speak of employees, pensioners and pensioners paying our taxes and taxes. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Hanger]] In the field of capital and assets, our real non-existent asset tax is such that only about 15 percent of the government's budget comes from capital and assets taxes. That is, if we do not change our tax structure, over 80 percent pay the employees and not even 20 percent of those who have wealth and capital. What's the minister doing? – He is thinking about changing the tax structure, namely that the large corporations, which do not pay a fair contribution today, pay even less. In other words, you want workers, pensioners and pensioners to pay not only 80 percent but 90 percent of crisis costs and the capital and wealth sectors even less! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger]] That's where you'll have to expect our bitter resistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e27176	Member of the Upper Nosterer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e27198	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Finanzminister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV screens! Mr Krainer, we have not heard much about the content of the current agenda items. I've heard what you said otherwise, but I'm going to tell you something – I've already said this this morning at the current hour –: What we are saying here is not perceived or simply not accepted, but please accept at least what international experts and institutes say! Last night, an online press conference was held by the IMF. There it has been said that the corona aid in Austria is an example. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And do you know what the IMF has said? – The Austrian financial budget is so well established that, from today’s point of view, it will not be necessary for us to make a savings package after that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] One thing I know, as long as I've been here in this house: Even when we were not a Corona era, we have paid more taxes in the past than now, since this new government has been in office, namely under Chancellors in short, first with the liberals and now with the Green Vice-Cancellor Kogler. This has to be determined once again. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] To avoid this in length: What is it about now? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] – Corona is God almost over. We know, however, that, at the end of the day, those companies that are still suffering – in the concert area, in the trade fairs or in the field of congress tourism – still need help. We must not abandon these plants now, but we must continue to do so. Some corona aid runs out because they are not necessary, and some corona aid, as I said, are now being extended once more, namely by three months and maximum by the end of the year, of course under more stringent conditions than before. In other words, there must be at least a 50 percent reduction in sales so that one can continue to use these corona aids. This is without going into detail now, the outage bonus, the loss replacement, the fall-out fund and the extension of the liability if a company still needs a transitional credit from the ÖHT because it has not yet fully taken advantage of it. As it is said again and again that the communities are not looked at enough: Today, the Council of Ministers has decided that the Community investment package, which has been set up for the communities, will extend applications until the end of 2022, which we will decide in the Committee on Budgets and then, as has been said, in plenary. As I said, Minister of Finance, Minister of Economic Affairs, the IMF has said quite clearly that what this government has done in the last 15 months is all right that it was responsible and that it has also helped businesses properly, so that they can now really look to the future with joy. I'll repeat it again now: This aid has been available for everyone, for workers and for employers. The number of holdings in the municipality is estimated to be higher than that in the United Kingdom. Last March last year, when the lockdown started, in Austria, there were still strong payments. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] This cannot be claimed by other states around us. They're still looking here today and taking initiatives. While we have already been paid out, the applications will only be filled out there. – Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e27285	Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e27306	Mr President. Dear High House! We today adopt a number of important measures, such as the extension of tax exemptions to masks and disinfectants and an extension of the hardness fund, points that we have simply needed in the Corona crisis. These are points that we – my previous speaker has already mentioned – will share. But I want to talk about what's missing today. What fiscal measures have we not yet adopted, but which would be urgently necessary? – I would like to speak briefly to you, Minister: “Corona strengthens inequality, strengthens health risks, reduces educational opportunities for the poor, while some assets and businesses are among the winners of crises and have become even richer in the crisis.” It is then described how this inequality has been increasing for decades. It goes on to say: “Democracy risking concentration of power in the form of capital and influence of few is facing growing material uncertainty from many.” I do not know if you have already dealt with this initiative. These are the wealthes, the rich, the millionaires from Austria, but also from Germany, who have joined forces, who now ask politics to finally tax them. What I read is on the home page of the initiative of millionaires, you can all read this. So we have super-rich ones who show themselves, like this wealth they possess, also becomes power and influence, and they formally beg us to finally tax them. I also quote a millionaire from Austria, Marlene Engelhorn, who says: ‘Taste me at last!’, ‘I have done nothing for this heritage, that is pure happiness.’ – I thought I was quoting a few assets today, a few millionaires, millionaires. I read in your former chats that you have a lot to do with these and also take good care of them. I thought maybe this way of explaining and maybe you could see a certain truth. I could also mention other initiatives by millionaires, millionaires. This is also global, for example the millionaires for humanity, who say: Please, tax us, tax us, tax us! It's the right decision! It's the only decision! Humanity is more important than our money! If even these quotations of millionaires and billionaires and billionaires, including from our country, are not enough, then I might try with the naked numbers. [[Abg. Hörl: Donations are tax-privileged!]] In the last months of the pandemic, hundreds of millions of people worldwide have slipped into poverty. [[Abg. Obernoster:... not in Austria!]] At the same time, the richest people in the world have increased their assets by 60 percent. I'll take it short: It's time for a millionaire tax! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e27356	Member of the Angerer Chamber has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e27378	Mr President. Minister! Mr Finanzminister! Yeah, we're now talking about three billboards to extend the corona aid packages. I'll send you in advance: We will support these three legislative instruments, because we believe that, as long as there are restrictions – partly exaggerated restrictions – for our economy, one must at least give the companies the opportunity to take advantage of aid. But when I read the headline of today’s “Kronen Zeitung”: It is a year too late, Minister. Mr Kogler has formulated this in such a way that one is now in the process of making these corona aids more effective. This is the point – it is unfortunately so that we still receive emails from companies that do not receive support to this day. They are mostly indirectly affected companies. The Cofag is mentioned again and again, the construction you have created to distribute billions. Small EPCs and SMEs mostly stay on the track, they have not been getting any help for months. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] So it remains to be hoped that there will really follow actions and that this will become more effective in the future. I would just like to give you one example: Taxi and bus companies that are indirectly affected, since they are not closed, were not entitled to a claim for a long time. They are still struggling with huge sales losses today and are still dependent on help. We already said it today: With the 3G rule, which is only available in Austria and nowhere else in the world, the gastronomy has a huge disadvantage over our destinations in the vicinity, for example, if you look at Croatia or wherever. The people who book today, of course, go where they do not have to test daily and walk through the area with masks. It is also a really dramatic burden for employees if they have to work with the mask both inside and outside at 30 degrees. There is hope that these announcements will finally follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e27414	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e27440	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Positively, measures such as the hardening fund and loss compensation are being extended today, even if at least 50 percent of them have to be reduced. That means that there will not be so many of them again, but after all, this is a positive approach. Ladies and gentlemen, the crucial question, however, is: Who is actually paying for this crisis? My colleague Krainer has already done this: When it comes to the SPÖ Group, it is not the workers, it is not the consumers who pay 80 percent of the taxes. We as the SPÖ Group call for a redistribution of taxes, namely a reduction in taxes on labour income and a significant increase in taxes on capital and assets. As far as labour income is concerned, this is also a recommendation that Wifo CEO Badelt has announced today. Ladies and gentlemen, caution should be exercised when the Minister of Finance is considering reversing aid measures because there have been steps to open up. Caution should also be exercised in the event of announcements by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, if he says here – as he did today in the early days: The economy is running well, the people are back to work, the crisis is over! – Remember, he said that already in the summer of 2020, and what came then, we all had a sad experience. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] Is a small fact-finding check appropriate? The economy is not working well, it is running stuttering, and unfortunately we are faced with worrying unemployment figures, especially in the long-term unemployed group, where we have an increase of 90 percent, which is unfortunate. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] The crisis is not over, and the immunization is not as great as it is always announced. Why is that so? – Because the Federal Chancellor and the Finance Minister in the procurement of the vaccine have attracted and invested a financial cover of 200 million euros. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] If this had not happened, at least 600,000 people would have been more vaccinated today. That would look different. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] Ladies and gentlemen, doubts and caution are required, in the event of announcements by the Federal Chancellor, namely nebula grenades, and in the case of considerations of the Minister of Finance who does not remember 86 times and sends the laptop in the stroller. [[Abg. Strasser:... no one believes anymore!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e27505	Mrs Blimlinger has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e27526	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to hear that the SPÖ is now voting differently from the Committee on the Change of the Hardening Fund. There was still a certain insult because it had been informed too late. I am glad to see this change in my mind. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Now I would like to talk to the main key points: In principle, it is a question of clarifying which insurance conditions are supportable. This is particularly the case with the so-called "multi-minor" employees, So a group of people who have very little income and are partly not even insured because they are little busy. It is made clear that the NPOs for which the NPO funds exist are not in the hardness fund. An important point is also the increase from 2 billion to 3 billion euros and the extension that has been made possible, in particular, and I would like to stress this once again, for the very small number of employees. In order to replicate what the SPÖ Members have said: Yes, inequality has increased, and indeed, the Greens also feel that there should be a different distribution of the tax burden – wealth tax, inheritance tax. In this context, however, I should like to remind you that it was your Minister of Finance Lacina, who introduced the private foundations in 1993, which enabled the super-rich to park their assets tax-free. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The great revolution you are talking about, or this great change has already led the Social Democrats over the last 30 years. The inequality among your governments has grown ever greater and not smaller. In this sense, I can only say: We meet after the world revolution, Mrs. Herr – if you ever come back to the government, then we will see how you manage to reverse all of this. By the way, I still believe that the Windisch-Kaserne must be renamed Richard-Wadani-Kaserne.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e27581	Member of the European Parliament, Mr Matznetter, has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e27608	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In itself I like Eva Blimlinger, but you can't leave such statements. First, dear Eva Blimlinger – let's start with the first –: "Annoyance" for the fact that, as a Green Group, you cannot, together with the EIA, comply with the minimum rules in Parliament? – On the morning in front of the committee, she sends a bill and expects everyone to turn it down: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Blimlinger.]] As in many other things, Parliament's disregard does not give rise to insult. We rightly reject this. With regard to taxation, to come up with the accusation that in 1993 – in reality agreed with the 1989 tax reform – foundations were introduced, which are everywhere else, as justification for your being able to enforce nothing in this area – honest, dear Eva Blimlinger: let it happen a little more! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Blimlinger]] Yes, it is difficult with the ÖVP, and yes, as long as there are majority relationships here that do not allow an alternative, it is difficult for any coalition partner. You feel it now, but nothing has been won with Hinhauen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Back to the hardness fund: Now we had time to look at that. Yeah, we're gonna agree, but we want a few things fixed the same way. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We have deliberately tabled a motion for a resolution because these are good proposals. Now, not only am I referring to our request, but also to Sepp Schellhorn's request from NEOS, for example, which addresses the wintering opportunities for family hotels in the city hotel industry, has been consistently ignored by the Federal Government for a year, although this would be a proposal to lock up hotels in family ownership at some point, if, for example, urban tourism is going on again or congresses are possible. Why is everything delayed, rejected or postponed, instead of taking up and implementing the best ideas together? That would be much more possible, I think, in the interests of the Greens than in the interest of the ÖVP. Try once and do not make excuses like Eva Blimlinger on the previous decade! Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[21:32]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e27754	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Members of the European Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e27779	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Finanzminister! Like the SPÖ, we have still voted against the hardness fund in committee. We said we were looking at that. We have looked at this, and I will now speak in such a way that I say that we will also agree to all of these measures that you have proposed, because we think they are useful. However, I would like to address three points. We already said it: At least one of the measures has really come once again at the last second. We talked in committee about the fact that this is not extremely complex and that of course it can also be dealt with relatively quickly. - Yeah, we can do that, but it's not about us. This is about aid to entrepreneurs and what they need. Planning safety. Planning security also means that you are not on the 16th. June learns how it continues until September. This is simply a subject that is really very, very difficult in the economy and that hurts the entrepreneurs. That is why we would argue for this and ask for more anticipation, more planning, and more time for entrepreneurs to work on it. Secondly – and this is also a very, very important point – it is also about starting to evaluate economic aid. We all know, there were a lot. There was always the big discussion: Is it too much? Is it too little? For us, this was a guess, because much has happened too much, but we know one thing very well: Now is the time to analyse all these aids and to look at what really worked on whom it worked. Have they brought the effects we hoped for, and were they above all correct? Why is it so important to do this now? – Col. Obernosterer makes himself and says here full heart – and I also believe him to believe that –: The pandemic is almost over! We all hope so, but in the end it is so that many experts already warn that there may be a great wave in autumn/winter. That's why it's just important now to understand: What has worked, what has not worked, and what can you possibly use again in autumn/winter in the short term? That means you just need this plan B in the drawer. I'm afraid that's not happening at the moment, but this has to be developed right now. Then again, I come to the certainty of these measures, which is the third point, which has been put into economic aid. We all know: Not all sectors have been affected the same way. There are a lot of industries that have come through this crisis. However, it was still distributed with the casting can, for example, the IMF has highly criticised this. It just doesn't make sense when you pump money into areas where it's not needed – quite the contrary: You can see at the moment that this leads to overheating of the system. The price increases that we have in particular during construction do not come from about. They come precisely because we have some really overwhelming state intervention, which then produce exactly the opposite of what we actually need: a free market that can and must recover relatively quickly. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Two proposals on kindness: The first is in the interest of planning security. It would be very easy to extend all four measures – two of which have only been extended until the end of September – until the end of December, because then the entrepreneurs know what can come. I am speaking here, of course, of the fall-out fund and the fall-out bonus. As far as I understand it, this also allows the EU support framework. This would be very easy, you could also implement it very quickly, and it would help. The second point is: If it really needs help in autumn/winter – now I come to Plan B – then please do not access these very different models again. You know the proposal on loss compensation that we have tabled. This is built on the Kiel model. Mr. Felbermayr, the design director of the Wifo, has been very strong, has developed a lot. I think this would really be a model that is very fair and would be very quickly implemented in autumn/winter. That would be a next wish that we are here to address to you. Finally – and with that I am already coming to the end – we all know it: We need a restart in the economy. If we take a step back and do what we just have to do – pandemic back or forth – then from my point of view, it is about two points: Bureaucratic reduction and, quite quickly, the tax relief of the labour factor. That would probably be most useful for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e27842	Mrs Schramböck has been reported to speak. I can give her the word. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e27863	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The opening steps that are now gradually being put in place show their effect, and our Austrian economy is now better than expected. How can this be read? – This can be seen from the growth figures for the Austrian economy, which are constantly being revised upwards, not only from the EU, but also from other institutions, from the Wifo, from the IMF and from others. I say here to you: The bill will be concluded. We'll see how well we grow. We have the best conditions for this, because we have created them together, because we have tied up a large package of liquidity to support companies, and because at the same time we have supported investment. We have done a lot together and have not done anything in the various industries, but have had different measures for various sectors – for tourism, for gastro, for industry, for commercial businesses, for the EPCs. You have repeatedly criticized them. The diversity of the measures is contrary to the principle of foundry. I'm standing here today and I'm in favour of us looking closely. We have never made the casting can, but we have looked closely and specifically supported the companies. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The order books of the companies are full. I am now once again a lot on my way to commercial businesses, with large head companies, with start-ups. Yes, they are all important for this location, for the ecosystem in Austria, and we have managed to maintain their liquidity. Insolvency figures are lower than ever before, and I also trust to say that what has always been predicted – an insolvencyunami – will not come and will not come. We have put in place measures in insolvency law and in many other areas, we have also put in place measures to boost the economy. I would like to say here that I have been very surprised in the last few days when the Chamber of Labour and the Trade Union came to say that we need an investment package of 8 billion euros. That's what I've been thinking about, and I've been wondering what we've been doing a little while ago. . We have adopted a package of EUR 7.8 billion as an investment framework for companies that use it and implement it. We have already done this, we do not need to be asked now, we have already done so in September. This is not in Germany, not in Italy and not in France, but here in Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] This has been used by many companies, in total of 240 000, 94 percent of them, you know, SMEs, so it is not just about the companies, as is always said here. I do not want to let myself or ourselves, because we take care of the Austrian family businesses every day, the Austrian SMEs, we know very well that they are the backbone of our economy, that they are the biggest employers in Austria and that they are our support. That is what we are doing with various measures to ensure jobs and their future. I am pleased that we can extend these measures accordingly and that you are now supporting it. Yes, there are sectors that suffer – in urban tourism, in the event industry – and at the same time there are sectors that are already very strong again. I would like to raise one of your points: They have said that the Austrian construction prices and the prices in the supply industry are rising. The belief that we define the world market prices in Austria through the investment premium is very much the honor. I can tell you that's not the case. This is because much is invested in Asia, China and the USA and the demand there increases. That's why prices are rising internationally. That is why we must support our companies with investments, with the investment premium and with other measures. The bridge guarantees will continue to be available at 100 percent by the end of the year, there is legal support and, above all, it is important to me, the increase of the hardness fund to EUR 3 billion. In total, we have done very, very much, that is why our Austrian economy is doing well, the companies are growing – in some cases they already have quite different problems, it is about the topic of professionals, it is about apprentices – who look forward. Let us look forward with you and see what we can do for them in the future! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e27931	I can give the floor to Mr Blümel. – Mr Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e27952	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Maybe a few of the following comments: The situation in which we are now coming economically is undoubtedly one that can all of us vote optimistically. I can remember that we decided here in the House about a year and a half ago a budget novel, according to a then up-to-date estimate of the Economic Research Institute with a growth forecast of 1.5 percent for 2021. We now have forecasts from the Commission, OECD and IMF, which are far beyond 3 percent, the OeNB, for example, predicts 3.9% for this year and more than 4 percent for the next year. This is, of course, a good news for everyone in Austria, for the economy as well as for workers, because that means that it goes uphill. We should all bear this optimism together, because that will be a self-strengthening measure. I'm glad it's going in this direction, I'm glad that the pandemic can partly be overcome economically. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] Nevertheless, the upswing is not the same everywhere, even that has already been mentioned. We have continued to break down in some sectors, because the business models are just so designed that they are above average affected by Corona. This is particularly the case in urban tourism, congress tourism and the event area. Throughout the last year, we have repeatedly talked about the Austrian economy affected by the Corona pandemic. In the meantime, it is also reflected in international evaluations that Austria is affected more frequently and harshly by the corona virus than by other countries due to its economic structure. Corona affects some sectors of the economy more than others; Sectors where interpersonal contact is needed – in particular service sectors, gastronomy, hotels et cetera – are more affected, other sectors are less affected, and especially these particularly affected sectors in Austria contribute above average to the gross domestic product. The tourism and leisure sectors contribute about 15 percent to GDP. That is enormously much, more than in Spain and Italy, and we must also be aware of that. The companies in these sectors, in particular, have a very lower level of equity, which is why there is this multiple concern, which is why it was also justified and necessary to put up higher direct payments than other countries. We have succeeded in doing so, as the various international institutions confirm. Thank you for being able to do so here in the House. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] Nevertheless, there will continue to be differences over the next few months, even if mutations may not be 100 percent – perhaps a little beyond – of the vaccinations. But this is not supposed to stop optimism. It is important – and this is what we have concentrated on in extending economic aid – that in areas which are still particularly affected, that is, that they still have more than 50 percent of turnover in comparison to normal times, money can still flow and support is there. This is psychologically important, you have also mentioned this, Mrs Double Bauer. I also give you the right, in principle, that the perspective is something that is very necessary for companies. Now you can discuss whether you should have extended this right up to the end of the year or whether the perspective is already something with which you can live well in a difficult time – I'm right. I feel a little different when it comes to the question of what form of new aid should be set up – if it comes to it. You referred to the Kiel model, I also discussed this with Mr Felbermayr a three-quarters ago. By the way, I am very glad that he has decided to come to Austria and congratulate him from this point to the position at the Wifo. I believe that this will also be an enrichment for the debate and for the content of the debate, even here in the House. The Kiel model is de facto based on the same calculation methods as the Commission's loss replacement – very, very similar calculation models, partly also sectoral differences – but, in my view, there is a difficulty in implementation, i.e. regional demarcation or regional demarcation, where this loss replacement applies. The regional demarcation, of course, is a challenge. How do you define exactly the region? – Of course you can say that in the mountains the tourist companies are more affected in winter, but where does the mountain begin and where does it end? In summer In Salzburg city we may have a greater impact, but 10 kilometers further, outside the lake, less. That is to say, regional differentiation is not easy in a topographically beautiful country like Austria, and therefore, I think, the Kiel model in the form may not be the most optimal variant for Austria. In any case, the method of calculating losses is very similar to the model of the Commission, which can also be applied in Austria, and we have extended this loss compensation until the end of the year. That is why I believe that this was a very, very good opportunity to take care of more difficult times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e28024	Members of the European Parliament have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e28046	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! I should like to join me seamlessly in what the Minister for Economic Affairs has said, from the practice of Tyrol. I feel moved back to the 1990s almost again, as our main problem in tourism is the staff again, we have too few employees. This also shows that the economy is attracting and that, I believe, we are already returning to the old strength. Dear Mr. Krainer, dear Mr. Matznetter! Your problem is, I believe, not that the government is working badly, but on the contrary: The problem you have is that the government is doing excellent work, is truly taking care of the problems, has successfully led this country out of the pandemic and continues to lead it in a balanced way. Let us see what is being extended: the default bonus, the loss replacement, the hardship fund for companies; on the other hand, the short work on the part of employees. The hardness fund will also be extended once again. I think that's very balanced. Let's take a look at the time track and look at the extension of the state credit: This concerns the loans we received last year in March, April with 100% state liability, for which the first instalments are now due. It is now possible to extend this until the end of the year, allowing you to pass on the loans from the house bank or from the bank directly to the ÖHT or to the AWS, so that they can be restructured or looked at there as you can help. I think the hardness fund is a good sign that we are really trying to provide comprehensive support to all areas of the population. It will be increased by 1 billion euros, Mrs Blimlinger has already said it, but now there are several small employees. All in all, it is the sign that one is really balanced over and over again and tries to make things more comprehensive and to involve, as far as possible, all levels of society and stakeholders. They fled to side-by-side shows. [[towards SPÖ]] I'm sure the population will recognize that. Mr Krainer, if you are the main professional politician today and act accordingly in the Committee of Inquiry, then continue to do so! But stop the personal engagements and also stop with the Leaks, with the lawless Leaks. I think there should be the church in there too. Let go of village. The population will do this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] The population will very well realize that one is doing serious work here. It is very, very difficult to make such sums available so justly that everyone has the feeling that they are being helped. It's complex. I'm always on the front line, I'm always with the people as an economic federalist in Tyrol. As far as you're concerned, I see where it scratches again and again. We always find an open ear to the Minister of Finance, but of course also to the Federal Chancellor and the Minister for Economic Affairs. You should be ashamed that you're doing such performances here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as by Mr Schalmeiner and Mr Jakob Schwarz.]] Finally, Mrs. Blimlinger is not here: By the way, Mrs Blimlinger, I believe that the Lordly History Museum should finally be left alone by you and other peace apostles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e28121	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e28142	It is always nice to be able to come to the speaker's desk after the colleague Hörl. I would, however, like to answer someone else from my colleague's office, Mr Obernosterer. He has previously quoted Jeffrey Franks from the IMF when he said that it probably does not need savings packages, because the budget and financial situation in Austria is in such a good condition, and that one has worked well in the past. Your colleague, you have only forgotten two points he has also said. He noted: One thing that is very urgent for Austria is the introduction of a CO2 price – at the beginning of 25 euros, later up to 100 euros – and almost a financing of green technologies as well as a relief from labour income, so that there is no additional burden on the population. He said that just as it doesn't need a savings package. And he's noticed something else. [[Abg. Listen, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, ……]] The second thing he mentioned was digitization. I looked at that. Although there are individual sub-areas in which Austria is well positioned in digitisation, it is, in most cases, clearly deficient in the European comparison, and I fear that it has not only meant Austria's department store. You've got to hold on to that. That is, the IMF says the homework has been done well in the past, but we are not well placed for the future. I would have liked this part of you too. As examples of the overall work of the government, I would like to mention two other points, namely the NRP on the one hand, the national reform plan, which we also had in the Committee on the other. It is already very exciting – and the budget service has also criticised it – that there are annual reform projects, which are reported, but to a far too small extent they will be aligned both with the budget situation and with the financial situation. In other words, Austria reports well on possible reform projects, but does not count to a sufficient degree what this brings at all. It is difficult to check, of course, whether or not the potential has been raised. If you say you need a reform, and then, you have made a reform, but at the end of the day you can't prove that you've saved something, then you're – hardly surprising – totally at the ÖVP success course. That's exactly what we don't need. We needed something to be measured in advance and afterwards and precisely described. We talked about this in the Committee on Budgets. Mr Blümel, Minister of Finance, there was a great need for follow-up. Another point that we have raised – and I do not want to slip too much into Polish now, I try to be honest: It's like there's these donation reviews. In these donation reviews, the Ministry of Finance, together with another department, examines the possibilities of saving tax money at the same rate, by calling on a working group. Now we don't want to imagine exactly what happens when the Turkish Ministry of Finance, together with another turquoise resort, is thinking about how to save tax money. We don't want to see the chats that will be written in the evening to make up for it. But what we would have liked would be a process that is actually and transparently accompanied by experts: How can tax-moneying work be done at the same time for citizens? On my questions in the Committee you have not been able to answer me a lot in this regard, Minister of Finance. We really want a different approach. Finally – and since we have heard so much of economic aid now, you will not be surprised by the following –: I spoke in my previous speech about the need to significantly reduce taxes on income and wages in order to make a real difference for the people who work. There is a second point, however, which is equally important in order to really put the economy into effect, and that is a proper liberalisation. I know there will be a green speaker who may claim the opposite. But there are simple measures that can be implemented, and the expansion of the loading time is such. Col. Hörl was outside, he knows this from the tourist zones. In the West it is very common that there are shops that are longer open on holidays and on Sundays. As NEOS, we want entrepreneurs to be able to decide for themselves, in principle, when they are open and at what conditions – of course, and this is very important, with proper worker protection, so that the employees are not overwhelmed. But there will probably be opportunities to find something with which to liberalize through longer opening hours, which means that you have more work and more turnover. We then have a strengthening of local trade in relation to online trade. These are all elements that would also revive the inner cities and thus tourism and gastronomy. These are elements that work in the West of Austria and are not supposed to work in the East – that is completely illogical; therefore I can make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] So it's relatively simple: We wish for a reduction in the tax burden for all. We wish for more freedom for the economy. We wish for a transparent work of policy. It's probably not too much to demand in a state in the 21st century. ==References== Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[21:58]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e28261	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Stark has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e28285	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! The meeting was closed at the end of a meeting, which made it clear that: We have responsibility for Austria and its people. That's our mission, and we'll keep up with this task. I would like to express my thanks to the two ministers here in advance. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as by Mr Schalmeiner and Mr Jakob Schwarz.]] If you've gone over the Hero Square today or if you're going through one of the Austrian cities these days, you might think the pandemic is over. People meet again, thank God, keep social contacts. Life is back and you feel it too. But we all know: The pandemic, the virus has not yet been defeated, and we still have a good piece in front of us. Today we are looking forward to the prospect of policy looking ahead and also setting a course so that we can get through this crisis well over the next few months, so that businesses that are not yet so good can cope well with the crisis. This is what I call forward-looking policy, forward-looking action. Thank you very much for this, because only in this way can we meet this crisis. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as by Mr Schalmeiner and Mr Jakob Schwarz.]] All the measures we are negotiating here now seem to be a matter of unanimity, and the more I am surprised that the SPÖ still has something to lament. Mrs. Greiner, it was here that the economy was not going well. I can give two examples of why this is not true. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] On the one hand: I live in a region – the Weiz District – divided into two AMS areas, which currently has an unemployment rate as before Corona. We have an unemployment rate of 3 percent, and in the AMS district of Gleisdorf there are 500 job-seekers 700 open jobs. There's another one telling me the economy wasn't starting! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Second action, second fact: The Council of Ministers today – we have already heard it – decided to extend the municipal investment programme. Why? – Because the economy is so preoccupied that the municipalities are not able to work out these programmes because the economy is so utilised. This is a sensational sign that must also be honoured! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Of course, there are also areas – that is not nice to talk about – which are still suffering from this crisis. Exactly to these companies, the measures we now decide to take are addressed – out of responsibility for Austria. That's our mission. I would like to thank the government, which has led us through this crisis peacefully so far.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e28358	Mr Tashner has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e28389	Mr President. High house! Mr Matznetter, you have, of course, not quite wrongfully mounted that time limits have not been complied with when submitting the request. But we said nostra culpa in the committee – I was a guest in the committee at the time – and I think the matter speaks for itself. We are also grateful to you for agreeing here on this matter, which is also very reasonable, because the restrictions had to be carried out. Mr Angerer, you said they should not have been carried out. – They had to be carried out, the crisis forced us to do so. At the same time, however, the aid measures were introduced, and this was done to an appropriate and correct extent. Mr Obernosterer has really said that the IMF has said that it has been exemplary; and the IMF is not an organization which is turquoise is like your shirt, Mr Matznetter, but it is an organization that really has to say that objectively. In addition, this hardening fund has now been increased by EUR 1 billion to EUR 3 billion. That's a huge sum, ladies and gentlemen. 3 billion euros are 3 000 million euros, so that's really a lot of money. It is also true that it will not be quite easy to get that again. You asked, Mrs Greener, and Mr Krainer asked who was paying for it. It is also, as I should say, a beautiful one – I would say almost: naïve, but that is perhaps exaggerating – that perhaps not quite a realistic model has been suggested by your side, by Mrs. Herr. I think the question of payment is really one that you will have to ask yourself. How will we shape these taxes? – This is certainly a question that we will then have to discuss. That is not entirely to be rejected. There are some people who say we're making modern monetary theory, we're throwing the money out. I don't think it's going to be entirely successful with Modern Monetary Theory. My thesis would be: We will simply increase productivity. The economy is really going well, Mrs. Greiner. She's even running in such a way that I almost feel it could be a strawfire. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] However, it is hoped that there will be no strawfire, especially if, as Mrs Double Bauer said, we are really preparing the workers for them to do so, not only by reducing labour costs, but also by training them that we train them properly for businesses. There are many free jobs, but the workers are not there because they are not yet sufficiently trained. So there's still a lot to do with us. We really have a lot to do. I think the Minister of Finance knows what will happen to us. In particular, we still have a lot to do with fiscal design. We still have three years to do something. We look forward to the success of this. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e28444	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e28471	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, it will not surprise you if I give Prof. Tashner the right that productivity is to increase and no tax increases are necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With the hardness fund, we have been able to help many people in recent months, especially the EPCs, micro and micro-enterprises, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. I think it is very important that we take today's decision on the increase from EUR 2 billion to EUR 3 billion. This budget increase is also required for 15 months, in particular as a result of the extension of the hardness fund. The expansion of the potential support group was also an important and appropriate measure, and this additional increase is also necessary. For example, think of those founders who as young entrepreneurs until 31.10.2020 - entrepreneurs have founded their company and did not know how far the restrictions would go in the coming months! The additional bonus amounting to EUR 100 per month is now also priced, and therefore this increase is urgently necessary. We have already heard this for a small number of employees. An important information for all claimants: Applications for all 15 viewing periods are still possible until 31.7.2021. So far, EUR 1.71 billion has been paid to promoters. The management by the employees of the Chamber of Commerce works perfectly – thank you for that too. A very important issue has been a lot of work on us in the last few weeks and is also a matter of concern. I'm talking about MAN in Steyr. I thank Siegfried Wolf for the takeover and follow-up concept for Steyr. Our federal and state government was much shocked by the opposition, in particular by the SPÖ. The cooperation between the Federal Government and Upper Austria has worked well. This is how I thank our Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, our Minister of Economic Affairs Margarete Schramböck, the Upper Austrian head of state Thomas Stelzer and our economic councillor Markus Achleitner for the particularly successful and constructive support in maintaining the approximately 2,000 jobs at the Steyr plant. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] - Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e28556	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e28578	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister! Dear Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home via live stream, at this time still! I would like to address briefly the motion for a resolution tabled by the Members of the NEOS Group on liberalisation in trade. After I myself graduated in 1996, started a teaching as a wholesaler in 1997, and since then I have always worked exclusively in trade until one year, I can say a little bit about this idea, especially because I myself have experienced an opening-up liberalisation in wholesale. I can tell you: This idea doesn't make any sense. She won't bring anything. It will only bring one thing; it will further increase the pressure on trade workers. There are 550 000 employees in Austria. These are mostly women, and many of them are in precarious employment conditions. These liberalisations only lead to full-time jobs becoming part-time jobs. The only reason is that the pressure on women, often single parents, will get even bigger, just then on Sunday. Then there is no more work-life balance, then there is no more common weekend. Then it says stop. Well, we need you now! And: You can't do that! The other colleague, and, and, and, I know all of this enough, and I can tell you that this is only possible at the expense of the workers alone. No one has anything of that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second point: The fact that Austrian trade in principle has a structural problem is, I believe, undisputed. There is, I believe, hardly a country in Europe, or worldwide, where trade as in Austria has such a high number of square meters. That is, Austria has a huge structural problem. That is undisputed, but there is nothing to liberalize at all. This is an error in the final effect, which has been made in the last ten or 15 years also by means of a totally unthinked, partly really dubious spatial planning policy in the countries and in the municipalities. In the final effect you only looked at square meters, square meters, square meters. That doesn't do anything, and that's only a problem for us today. We will not be able to fix these by liberalizing shop opening times. In this sense, this motion for a resolution can be rejected with good conscience. He's just an anti-employee.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e28623	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – Mr Loacker, you have been reported.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e28644	Mr President. Mr Schallmeiner claimed that the shop opening was at the expense of the workers. In fact, however, it is true that at the company Sutterlüty – which is almost a Rewe partner in Vorarlberg – the employees are tearing around the services on Sunday because they are so super paid. They have opened on Sunday and find the lightest people for it. Then you also need to look at what the difference between settled trading on one side and online trading on the other side. In the Corona crisis a lot has been ordered online. We then had a lot of free posts on the parcel suppliers. These are often precarious employment conditions, and if they are not precarious if they are at Austrian Post AG, they are badly paid. If you compare this with the payment in the trade, then you prefer to take a job in the trade three times, because you are still in the warm and dry and not out on the street. Unfortunately, the claim that this is at the expense of the workers completely explores the labour market.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e28678	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Can we start with the vote? - ÖVP? FPÖ? NEOS? Green? SPÖ? - Yes. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 26: Draft Law on Hardening Funds, including Title and Entry into 933 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We'll come to the third reading. Whoever is in third reading for this, I ask him for a sign. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues, on the extension of the hardening fund and the deadline by the end of the year. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 27: Draft federal law amending the SME Funding Act and the Guarantee Act 1977, including title and receipt in 934 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – In turn, this is unanimously accepted. We'll come to the third reading. Whoever does so in third reading, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This was also adopted at third reading with the same unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Scherak, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Flexibilization of shop opening times'. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 28: Draft federal law amending the Income Tax Act, the VAT Act and the Alcohol Tax Act, including the title and receipt in 935 of the Supplements. I would like to ask the ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever does so in third reading, I ask him again for a corresponding sign. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[22:15:03]] 29. Point Report of the People's Procuratorate Committee on 44. Report of the Public Prosecutor's Office (1. Years until 31. (III-224/867 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e28809	We shall now proceed to item 29 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. I should like to welcome Mr Volksanwälte Amon, Achitz and Rosary to us. Mrs Diesner-Wais is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e28839	Mr President. Mr. Volksanwälte! The report of the Public Prosecutor's Office is publicly and politically perceived and discussed. I thank you for the lively, good and interesting discussion in the Committee, which is always the basis for important and necessary changes. In 2020, the pandemic not only affected private life, but also public life, and thus also the work of the People's Procuratorate. That is, the speech was rather held by telephone, the file was then edited in the home office. However, contact with the citizens has been maintained – this also shows the figures that have always increased. In addition to the volumes on control of public administration and preventive human rights control, there was this time a third volume of reports on the Covid situation. We are now discussing the reports together. I think that is good because they are related, and the consequences of the pandemic are not yet complete. The reports show us what is especially dear to people. In 2020, 18 000 people at the People's Procuratorate sought support for their concerns. For many, it is the last hope that their concerns will be fulfilled. It is an average of 72 complaints per day in which the public prosecutors help people or clarify them through the legal regulations, make them unclear and, of course, try to communicate between people who have a problem and the administration in many cases. This is what the People's Procuratorate really did, and I would like to thank and congratulate the three lawyers very much. I also thank the employees, because they really have a wide range of expertise with which they can cover everything. [[General condolences.]] Of around 9 000 test procedures started, about 25 per cent were health and social, mainly corona measures and health insurance. The public prosecutor's report notes that other authorities were also surprised by the pandemic. The pandemic called for rapid, rapid decisions and new measures; Structures for disbursement of financial assistance had to be set up in a short time. Sometimes it wasn't that smooth, but it was nevertheless found that efforts were really being made from all sides to ensure the processes so that people could come to their money. As the public prosecutor's report points out, the government has done good work in view of the situation, and the suggestions made by the public prosecutors have been quickly responded. In connection with self-employed care workers, for example, the Public Prosecutor's Office noted that if they did not have an account in Austria, they could not participate in the Hardfall Fund. This was taken into account and done relatively quickly. In its work as a control body, the public prosecutor has also found that there are errors in the implementation of measures in the field of justice and also in the area of spatial planning and construction law. In the field of prevention, protection of human rights, the six public prosecutors' commissions carried out 448 checks. So we see that the People's Procuratorate has made an impressive current account. Cooperation with politics is, of course, very good. We support the People's Procuratorate wherever it goes. For example, 299 applications for a home-sacrifice pension could be processed. This is, of course, possible because we have decided to increase staff. The People's Procuratorate is a point of contact for our citizens, whom they very much appreciate. It has many tasks and enjoys great recognition. The People's Procuratorate has also shown a special flexibility in this particular year, so thank you again! Another good cooperation!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e28906	As Mr Krainer asked me to give Mr Hörl a call for order because he accused him of criminal acts, I had the corresponding minutes come. This is about illegal Leaks; illegal Leaks are not a criminal offence, so I do not call Members of the Hörl. Mr Silvan is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e28930	Mr President. High house! Dear People's Lawyers! Thank you for the three reports. If you read these three volumes carefully, you know relatively quickly why they are not discussed at the prime time in the morning, but at the advanced hour. These reports clearly and quite detailedly show that the government has failed to combat the pandemic. They also show that Sebastian Kurz's promise was not met. We can all remember the 2018 press conference very well, when Sebastian Kurz – together with Vice-Chancellor Strache – announced that there is now this social security reform and, in the course of the same contributions, the same performance. According to complaints from insured persons, the public prosecutor has found that the same benefits still do not exist with the same contributions. An example of many: In the case of an echocardiography, in the same health insurance scheme, in ÖGK, in the case of an insured person in Lower Austria, a cost replacement of 49 euros is still valid and in the case of a Vienna insured person a cost replacement of 110 euros is still valid. The situation has, of course, been much more dramatic in the old and nursing homes. The report shows that the Federal Government has failed to combat the pandemic in this area, as I have already said. Sebastian Kurz has spoken in more than 200 press conferences in 2020 about how good Austria came through the pandemic. The figures speak another language: ==References====External links== Calendar week 2 540 people died in or with Covid-19 in Austria. By the end of the year, there were 6 312 persons in total, about half of them in old and nursing homes. Although we were warned of the events in Italy, the Federal Government has failed to protect the older generation. The reports of what happened in the old and nursing homes are quite dramatic: For example, staff have been abandoned, there has been no instructions for the care homes, there has been no legal certainty for certain measures, the staff has worked for months over its load limit. It was also the talk of 14 days of room quarantine. When you read the reports carefully, it was really human tragedy. - No, we didn't get through this pandemic. Mr Diesner-Wais, perhaps You also give these reports to your party chairman so that he can read them through, because there are the negative effects that have happened because of his policy of announcement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e28981	Mrs Ragger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e29003	Mr President. Mr. Volksanwälte! In advance, I would like to express my thanks to my group spokesperson for the People's Prosecution because this is also a thank you to the citizens, and this is seen in the high sensitivity and high professionalism that you have shown in 18 000 cases. At the same time, one also notices in the population, which one can no longer claim as a lawyer today, that you are perceived by the population as a positive appearance; unlike us lawyers, which we are often not perceived in this form. You can also see it on the shows you make together with your clients. For me, a few points have been raised that have been a horse for me for years and days, especially in the social field. One is particularly close to my heart, and I agree with the People's Procuratorate, which concerns the Centers for Psychosocial Rehabilitation Carinthia, abbreviated ZPSR. We have been fighting for years to ensure that people who live there on a small farm are properly rewarded. Today, we find in the Equal Opportunities Act what we want to implement together here in the House for years: that you also receive a fair reward as a person with an impairment to work. For this to happen too, we will not be tired of fighting together with the People's Procuratorate. I believe that it is an essential point to point it out again and again, also in the form of criticism of the People's Procuratorate, which we are also approaching. So we can only recommend the country of Carinthia: Please be so fair to people with disabilities that this will happen and be implemented in the next few years! Then, of course, there are some people's attorneys, some of whom we have also read about – not in the area which is somewhat sad: there have been massive restrictions on freedom in the nursing home sector – namely, that two wild police officers have been driven through a market, which according to the Public Prosecutor's Office can ultimately be considered superfluous. To sum up, one sees that the work of the People's Procuratorate has been very intensive and is very broad. At the end of the day, the People's Procuratorate represents one of the main pillars of this Republic. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e29040	Member of the Stögmüller has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e29061	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Volksanwälte! The last year was marked by Covid and the many different accompanying measures, which were important for the protection of health, but which all faced us with a wide range of new challenges. The People's Procuratorate has also gotten to feel them, which is also shown by the figures: There was an increase in complaints by about 7.6 percent to a total of 17,914. The largest chunks makes with 19.2 percent of all Procedures in the field of internal security and, in particular, in the field of foreign and asylum law as well as the police. Of the internal procedures, the lion's share – in about 40 percent – is the asylum cases, 25.8 percent the police cases. The People's Procuratorate criticises, in particular, the refusal of gender registration in an inter-, that is, the handling of police in cases of abuse and also the long duration of proceedings of residence permits and appeal proceedings before the BVwG. The issue of preventive human rights control in relation to demonstrations and police intervention was also a point. This is a matter that we urgently need to talk about, because: How can it be that demonstrations have been measured by two measures since the beginning of the corona pandemic? On the one hand, Coronaleugners are allowed to march through the city centre of Vienna under the protection of the police, and members of the Jewish community are advised to stay at home in the meantime. After the terrorist attack, Georg Immanuel Nagel was allowed to drive a car through the 8th. ==References====External links==* Official website May sit comfortably in the votivpark and picnic, tied by the police and attacked with pepper spray and batons. It can't be. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Sir.]] Although the police report to the NPM demonstrations that are expected to have a potential for violence, it also needs better strategies of deescalation in advance. While the Commission leaders can see the police's plans to find out more about possible hotspots at demonstrations in advance, there is definitely the police's duty to develop strategies for de-escalation. Problems have also been identified in the field of justice by the People's Procuratorate. A significant part of the 1,221 complaints involved the execution of penalties and measures. In addition to structural shortcomings, the capacity limits and waiting for open spaces were often criticized. The implementation of measures has not been reformed for the past 50 years – and someone has to explain this – so many of the public prosecutors' criticisms are also well understood and the need for reform is great. This reform has already been launched, and that is also important and correct. In May, our Minister of Justice, Alma Zadić, presented a first part of the reforms in action. The first part aims to ensure that those people in need of action due to their danger are consistently put into action. Those in whom it is not necessary, on the other hand, should be better provided in the regular health system. This is to be achieved by a correct change in the conditions for injunction for mentally ill right-wing offenders. For young people too, there will be new rules for the first time, so that they will only be put in action in the event of capital crimes. Both measures are expected to further reduce capacity. The second part of the reform is intended, among other things, to ensure better support in the implementation of measures by more psychiatrists and psychologists. With this reform, our Federal Minister has launched the first part of a comprehensive reform. This was not only a long-standing demand from many experts, but also a criticism of the People's Procuratorate in recent years. I believe that this is also necessary and important, because the proposed bill takes up precisely this criticism and is a milestone for a human rights-compliant implementation and a secure society. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am very glad that the People's Procuratorate has repeatedly shown criticisms and that these lead to meaningful reforms that we are implementing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e29131	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e29152	Mr President. Mr. Volksanwälte! Democracy, the rule of law and human rights are three pillars which are one another, and which are of crucial importance for us to be able to live in a decent society. The fact that prevention of human rights control has been established in the framework of the People's Prosecution since 2012 cannot be estimated to be high enough, with the emphasis on preventive. We can congratulate ourselves for this, and I would like to take the public prosecutor's report on behalf of the NEOS once again for this important work that is being done in the sense of the human rights situation in Austria. The reports that we have - especially in the field of justice - show very clearly something that I am constantly addressing and which is really important to address: These are the necessary improvements in the implementation of measures. Many complaints raised to the public prosecutors under the National Prevention Mechanism focus on the implementation of measures. Mr Stögmüller has already shown quite correctly that movement has actually come to the point that there are legal improvements for the first time. It will, however, demonstrate the experience gained from the report of last year, which, of course, is also crucially under the influence of the pandemic, and it will also require infrastructural investment in order to enable action to be taken in accordance with the ECHR's requirements. Austria has already made convictions. We should really take the abuses, the complaints that have been expressed very seriously, and take the opportunity that we will also make available the necessary resources in budgetary terms, so that we can also deal with this important social area in a form such as the claim to a human rights situation at the beginning of the 21st century. ==References====External links== If one read here that partly due to the pandemic quarantine departments had to be created where then the detention rooms were very narrow, then this shows that there is simply a spatial need. It is necessary to separate strictly: Punishment is one thing; in people who are in the execution of measures, provided that they have been forced into shelter as inadmissible perpetrators, however, the word punishment is not appropriate – that is also strictly separate from the execution of the sentence – because these people are in need of treatment. I therefore very much hope that this report will provide an impetus for further improvements to be made, and thank you once again very much to the people's lawyers and their employees for the work done last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e29192	Mrs Weidinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e29219	Mr President. Estimated Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen! The Public Prosecutorship is a brilliant institution, and I would like to say thank you for thanking you for, also as a substitute for many institutions such as the Austrian Parliament, such as the administration and our policy in general, having managed to spend Austria much better through this crisis than many other countries in this world have done. – A heartfelt retribution of God for this! [[I should like to congratulate Mr Disoski and Mr Maurer on his work.]] Mr Silva von der SPÖ, I would like to draw up a difference here: While the People's Procuratorate takes up over-party and factual criticisms, takes citizens' concerns seriously and makes proposals for improvement, They come out here and try to use this item on the agenda to represent the political opinion that the Federal Government would have blamed for failure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silvan.]] One can clearly object to this, because neither the facts nor the figures give you the right, but these speak for the fact that Austria has come through the crisis excellently and is a country that is very, very well managed. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Disoski and Mr Maurer on his work.]] But we have the claim to get better every day, so thank you to the People's Procuratorate: 18 000 concerns – of course more concerns than in other years, including the crisis caused by the pandemic. I would like to take one point, ladies and gentlemen, which is a very important one: This is the financial offices in Austria. An important, excellent reform has been launched to debureautize the financial offices, to create more freedom for people and to highlight the character of services. There is one point that states that we also need to follow the hotlines so that citizens can find central, if possible local, contacts on the spot – an important point. We take this seriously and we are working to make this point even better in the interests of citizens. However, allow me also to say that it is important and necessary that we take seriously the concerns that are clearly expressed that the digital signature represents a new opportunity for the Austrians to use the services of the administration. This is a valuable initiative of our Federal Minister Margarete Schramböck, who has been very, very strongly committed to putting digital signature in the foreground. I would like to take this opportunity, ladies and gentlemen: If we all make use of it, we use the digital signature! It shortens our ways with the offices, but it also creates more freedom and more security so that we can make better use of our services. In conclusion, I would like to congratulate Mr Amon and his team on their contribution to bringing Austria through this crisis so well. It also makes me proud, ladies and gentlemen, that Werner Amon and thus the Austrian People's Procuratorate are at the forefront of all popular prosecutors and civil society in the world, that we help to ensure that citizens are so well represented not only in Austria but also in the world, and that we contribute to greater freedom and democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e29285	The honourable Member has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e29306	Mr President. Dear People's Lawyers! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Weidinger, as far as I remember, we are here in the House, and I think it is appropriate to discuss politically, even when it comes to reports from the public prosecutors. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] I would also like to thank the public prosecutors for their work, but also for the three very detailed reports. There is a special report on the Covid-19 situation, and yes, it shows again: This corona pandemic presents us with great challenges in many areas. Vulnerable groups are also particularly affected by this particular situation. This also affects people with disabilities in many areas. In 2020, 193 Commission visits took place in facilities for people with disabilities. The main focus was on dealing with these challenges by the corona pandemic. This also made some serious shortcomings visible, and we see this in a very detailed report. On the one hand, there was often no concrete information about the disease, about Corona, but also about the protective measures in easy-to-understand language, in barrier-free form available to people with visual and hearing impairments. The participation of people with disabilities in the corona crisis bars was de facto not at all at all, especially at the beginning. Exciting effects were the rigorous starting and visiting restrictions and the closures of day sites on the one hand, of course for the clients, but also for the care staff and, on the other, for caregivers in particular. They have been working partly on attack for over a year and are particularly challenging, also from dealing with the clients in this particular situation by the corona pandemic. With the disappearance of the well-known daily routine, the restriction of social contacts and the elimination of treatment options, an increased risk has arisen for people with disabilities to suffer additional physical and mental disorders. In the facilities there was a long lack of the necessary protective equipment for personnel, in many cases not enough protective material could be organized. The employees in the public prosecutor's visits also complained of insufficient information on the handling of protective measures, on general hygiene and protection measures. There was often no hygiene training at all in institutions for the employees. The report of the Public Prosecutor's Office is very comprehensive and also makes it clear that we need action, and that we still need action at the moment, but that we also need to prepare for future challenges, which are as dramatic as this Corona pandemic, and that this report provides us with a very good basis – I really want to say thank you for that. It is important to me – in conclusion – that we pay particular attention to people with disabilities, that we ensure in any case the right to self-determination of these people, and that we limit fundamental and freedom rights as little as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e29356	Mrs Ecker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e29382	Mr President. Appreciate Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the People's Prosecution Report, especially with regard to preventive human rights control, gives us insights into areas that would otherwise be closed and invisible to us. One of my heart's concerns is always the facilities of child and youth assistance. 102 facilities for child and youth assistance were visited in 2020, and unfortunately, for the time being, quality differences between the various institutions occurred. Of course, the quality of the facilities is closely related to the care key. Short staff resources also led to greater difficulties in dealing with the crisis in these institutions, and the weaknesses became even more evident. In fact, the National Prevention Mechanism would be able to address structural deficits and to address these shortcomings, but unfortunately this does not work to the extent that it is necessary, and that is very worrying. This is also true of the elderly: Construction measures in facilities are often done quickly, we have heard that changing structural personnel construction sites to positive ones is more difficult, but would be all the more important. This is a measure of child and youth assistance, which serves to protect minors, and then it is read in the report that in these protective institutions the proper treatment is not done properly, reading about daily violent incidents and regular police operations – unfortunately, especially in Upper Austria. There is a lack of crisis plans for young people with outbreaks of aggression and loss of control. I know that the care of these young people can bring unimagined challenges, but this must not happen because these children and young people have already experienced a lot and are again exposed to negative experiences. Neither the staff of child and youth assistance nor the children and young people themselves can significantly influence where they find a new home. Mostly it is necessary to wait until a place becomes free. This is usually taken in the absence of alternatives, even if the device may not fit a hundred percent. I am very pleased that, according to Volksanwalt Achitz, a focus will be placed on the training of caregivers in institutions, including the psychiatric institutions, because there are children and young people who cannot help themselves. That is where you have to look very closely, and I am glad that the People's Procuratorate is always doing this very well. One incident – in which it is: nothing happens anyway! – I would also like to say: A woman who is oppressed and confronted with violence can defend himself and calls the police. The official then finds: Nothing happened anyway, we'll be there tomorrow! – This is incredible and inconceivable, because we know that, especially when we speak of violence to women, the security of evidence is very important and many procedures are closed because it has not been done, and then the competent official says: We're coming tomorrow! – I really hope that this was just a sloppy official, perhaps with little empathy, because if not, then there will need to be even more awareness campaigns in this area, at least more effective, because whoever has not yet heard that violence on women is not anything, is really a mistake, no matter where he is sitting.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e29430	Mrs Ribo is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e29452	Mr President. Dear People's Lawyers! Dear colleagues! Dear sisters! I also start with a thank you to the People's Procuratorate – thank you for this very comprehensive and comprehensive report, but also thank you for your valuable work! The report deals, among other things, with the area of care, and I would like to address it briefly. Please think back to 2020! In February 2020, none of us knew what was happening to us. No one has known how difficult time will follow. No one knew that it would probably be the most difficult time of the Second Republic. The report also shows that he shows us what we all suspected: Errors have occurred, including in the care and care area. Many mistakes have occurred, serious mistakes have occurred, from nursing homes to homes – I do not take politicians to the political level, to federal politics. It was sometimes not fast enough, sometimes too fast, sometimes not fast enough, sometimes not exactly enough decided. This hurts all of us, and it will accompany us for a long time – but above all the people concerned will accompany it for a long time. But we must not use this occasion to point out to the guilty, for all have given their best, and it was for all a time that we would not like to have again. In retrospect, of course, you know more and more how you could have done it. It is important to admit that mistakes have been fixed and will continue to be corrected, and even more important it is that we learn from these mistakes and do not make them any more in the future, because the pandemic – even though it currently looks very good – is unfortunately not quite over, and we also do not know if one will come again. However, despite existing abuses, it was the caregivers who accompanied the elderly, the so-called vulnerable human group of this society, through this bad time. Only thanks to the caregivers and the care sector have we managed to protect many families from much pain. The nurses and nurses in this country have done their job well, have done their best. Now it is also time for politics – we – to do its job. This means that the errors are broken up and broken down so that they never happen that way again. But this also means that we hear the screams in the field of care and continue in the care reform, and we will, because only in this way can the pandemic become an opportunity.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e29492	Mrs Scheucher-Pichler has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e29513	Mr President. Dear People's Lawyers! Ladies and gentlemen! The report or the reports – in this case three reports from the public prosecutor’s office – are characterised by the challenges of the pandemic – the year 2020 was a special year – and they are also influenced by the limitations that have existed in public and private life. It has already been said that there have been more complaints, However, there have also been more than 4,000 cases where there has ultimately been no sufficient evidence of abuse; 49 percent of the public prosecutors started a formal examination procedure. I'm a fan of the People's Procuratorate, I've already been out of committee. I think the public prosecutor's work is very, very important. It is also important to me that politics takes the suggestions and criticism seriously. All in all, however, I believe that it is important for the people, for society, and that it is very often a sensitivity to a subject through the mission in the ORF, and that in the end there is a different perspective. There is also a lot of positive results, which is why a great deal of thanks to the lawyers Werner Amon, Bernhard Achitz and Walter Rosenkranz. – Thank you for your valuable work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It has already been mentioned – I agree briefly – that there have been a lot of challenges – in the WGs, in the old-age homes, in the nursing homes – especially with regard to the visit regulations, with regard to the starting restrictions. Yes, there were also many painful and really difficult situations, and I think it is important that we learn from them for future epidemics or pandemics. Mrs Ribo has already said it: It is necessary that we work out prevention concepts and discuss them with the staff, with the relatives, with those concerned before. This is a very important point and a criticism in your report. The shielding has caused a lot of criticism. Yes, we all know more today, the first regulations were then revised, also because of your criticism, but also the senior representatives have been very committed. Yes, we know today – and this is a concrete demand – that freedom rights should not be unconditionally subordinated to infection protection. This is an important realization that prevention concepts are also discussed with all concerned before the emergency, before the pandemic, because, in the end, a transparent and detailed discussion of planned and necessary measures leads to more acceptance. We have noticed this very painfully too. The delayed care reform was also criticized. – Yes, I can give you much of the right. There are major problems in long-term care, in mobile services, especially through pay differences between public and private sectors, but also due to the gap between stationary and mobile services. We need to look there – and this is also your demand – that there is a coordinated overall control and that the interface of health and care should be taken into account. Yes, I can largely support the demands contained in the report and also understand the criticism. We must do everything we can to get into swing with regard to the care reform. We must do everything we can to achieve sustainable solutions, especially for the care organisations and for those who work in this area. We really need to do everything we can to get the care reform moving now. That's, I think, our goal, too. Once again a great thank you to the People's Procuratorate.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e29571	Mrs Bayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e29597	Mr President. Mr. Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen! You know, I am particularly pleased with the international unions of the People's Procuratorate. Among other things, in your report, you mention that Austria is currently subject to the UPR, the Universal Periodic Review, for the third time. This is a kind of peer review in the United Nations Human Rights Council, which checks countries for their human rights standards every four years. Austria is now the third time, and there are six recommendations on development cooperation that I do not want to address now, ten recommendations on the business and human rights complex, which I think are very relevant, eight of them on the issue of National Action Plan on Economics and Human Rights and two recommendations on a law on economic and human rights – by the way, the second time, so it is not the first time we are recommended by law, now it is Costa Rica, among other things. Thankfully, the People's Procuratorate also has experience with events on exactly this area. At times when there were still events in the public prosecutor's office, the question was: How can the economy succeed in taking over human rights responsibility along the entire supply chain, responsibility for social rights, responsibility for environmental rights, and not in a way that is then the consumers who need to see whether in the product they buy is perhaps child labour or slave labour or groundwater pollution inside, but that there is really a legal order for companies to stick to it, just along the entire supply chain? It is fine that there is expertise in you, on the one hand, and on the other hand it is exactly ten years since the United Nations Human Rights Council adopted the guidelines on environmental and human rights. In 2011, the European Commission also recommended to its Member States that these guidelines be transposed into national action plans. There was a process in Austria in May 2013. There was also a first draft for such an action plan, but this was done in the sand, because the ÖVP did not want it at all. Similarly, there was a National Action Plan on Human Rights in general and also a process in which this issue of economics and human rights would have been put in place, but it also disappeared in 2016, because there were a few brakers in the government that didn't want it at all. The process has come to an end. Today, the European Commission has once again invited its Member States to create or renew national action plans on these issues, and there are, as you know, initiatives in many countries also at EU level on supply chain laws which are intended to legally require companies to respect human and environmental rights along the supply chain. Only in the event that there is nothing going on at random in the government, would I ask you to make your expertise available to you, so that perhaps after ten years we will finally get on with it. There, I think, would be a first step in the right direction. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e29637	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e29664	Mr President. Estimated Volksanwälte! The execution of the penalty has been relatively good due to the corona pandemic and crisis, there have been relatively few complaints. It was done very well by the inmates that, of course, restrictions had to be imposed in the execution of the sentence. There were no exits, for example, only under special conditions and requirements, and also the visit – that is, the traffic with the outside world, as it is said – was very limited. In the short term, there were no visits, but otherwise you went through with limited visit; the number of complaints was small. There have been very, very few incidents. The solution with the quarantine department has also worked well by first getting access to a department. We have to say: a praise to the Directorate-General, who has mastered this very, very well. What else is there to say? – Criminal and action enforcement, reform of the implementation of measures, has already occurred with my previous speakers: In principle – once strangled – FPÖ does not block itself against the reform of the implementation of the measures, only one thing has to be clarified: Is it fresh money to finance the Ministry of Justice for the implementation of the action, or does the judicial body have to cut it out of its own meat? – Then, as a liberal, we are certainly not present, because this was the result of the so-called normal execution, and that cannot be it. You know very well, the implementation of measures is a very expensive exercise, it is at least the spiritual norms, not the eligible ones. This attracts the conversion of an entire judicial body, Göllersdorf, and is certainly not cheap. I see in the budget that nothing is budgeted. Let's look at it, let's talk about it! [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] A short time ago, on 1st and 2nd. June, the People's Procuratorate Sprechtag has been to the justice centre in Stein, and whenever the Public Prosecutor's Office is in Stein, it's a certain therapy, but it also brings complaints to the judicial staff. A few years ago, the People's Procuratorate – a predecessor or the Volksanwälter other than the Brinek Service – once complained in the course of spokespersons that the loud folding gates would make such a big noise. This time it was not the loud folding gates – these are huge gates, where the vehicles, buses, with chain automatics, of course, are not quite silent –; this time, see, they are the prison doors, of course, also made of metal, in respect of which the People's Procuratorate of the Anstaltsleitung has passed, it is possible to shut down silently at 20 o'clock, i.e. not too late, but the metal arrest doors that have a metal lock-room door. The problem is not closing. The locking works with a bar machine, and the bar makes the noise. I do not know how to do this, but perhaps there will soon be rubber doors in the judicial institutions in the course of the reform of the implementation of measures. Nevertheless, I thank the lawyers and their employees very much for the great report. This is not so easy in a pandemic, because, of course, in the course of the pandemic, the activity of the public prosecutor in the form of visits and speeches was also restricted. Thank you very much! It is good that we have a functioning, good public prosecutorship, thank you to the three gentlemen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e29712	The next item is Mrs Gudrun Kugler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e29733	Madam President. Mr. Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen! We have three reports here for discussion. I take three good news from three reports and I conclude with a recommendation, especially to our Members here in this House. The first good news: the Covid report. The People's Procuratorate is giving the Federal Government a good witness, and I qualify what I have just said, because we have always said: There is no manual for the pandemic, and all the beginning is hard, and yes, there were difficulties at the beginning. However, as can be read in this report, in many cases the government has responded flexibly and quickly to the public prosecutor's recommendations and has reversed these mistakes. I am particularly pleased that the international activities of the People's Procuratorate are now also leading to joint consideration in all countries: What do you need to pay attention to in such cases?, and perhaps it will be possible to apply this kind of manual, which, in some cases, may then occur, can be applied by such crises – which hopefully will not come. I found the second good news in the report on preventive human rights control. There it is said that institutions that are restricted to freedom have very often complied with the public prosecutor's recommendations that compliance was high that proposals for improvement were put in place. But there it is also said that the institutions around Covid have often taken very good initiatives. I'm just bringing an example that you'll find there: A nursing home, an old home in Salzburg organized with volunteer helpers Rikshafahrten, so that one could not get infected but still experience something. A third good news for all of us – the People's Procuratorate is an organ of Parliament – is: According to the Imas survey last year, the public prosecutor's reputation and also the share of the people who say that the public prosecutor's role is a very important one that says: objective, high quality and useful! are enormously high. This benefits us as an Austrian Parliament. In this sense, I would like to say: We can take the work of the People's Procuratorate even more seriously! And this is the recommendation to all of us: that the reports, which are of high quality, have naturally been incorporated into tax money so that all employees can take the time to research so detailed that we do not simply discuss this work in the People's Procuratorate's Committee and then put it ad acta, but it is our task – every individual representative, every individual representative – to include these issues and concerns in all the specialist committees. Then the reports will be used as they are meant to be: to improve the situation in Austria in the long-term, medium-term and also in the short term at all levels. I would also like to thank the People's Procuratorate very much for this!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e29774	Next speaker: Mr Reinhold Einwallner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e29795	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear People's Lawyers! Yes, I also thank you to the Public prosecutorship forward, a very special thanks, namely that you responded so quickly and quickly and provided us with this special report on the Covid-19 situation. Dear colleague Kugler, it's true: There is a wide range of topics in these public prosecutors' reports. Of course, we can now also deal with and look at this in other specialist committees. The essential thing, however, is, that we see when we look at the reports of recent years, that there are always the same and similar criticisms. There is a need for a government to take up the criticism of the public prosecutors who correct the misdemeanors and take appropriate measures! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kugler.]] That is, I think, a very, very important goal. It is a challenge for the Federal Government to go into implementation, because we have been discussing a number of issues for quite a long time in the People's Procuratorate Committees. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen, in my contribution to the debate, I will deal with the subject spectrum of internal, internal security – I have already done so in the Committee. In the field of implementation of the Ministry of the Interior, more than 1,000 cases of business have occurred, 40 percent still in the field of asylum and foreign rights, although the number of cases is falling, not to such an extent as we had in the years 2017 and 2018, but this is still a significant number of business cases, and about a quarter of these cases in the Ministry of the Interior concern measures around the police. For many years, the People's Procuratorate has also dealt with a subject which I consider very important and on which there should now be a reform. These are allegations of abuse being raised against police officers. At the moment, the Federal Ministry of the Interior has a notification office, but the government programme says that there should still be an independent authority. Here again I appeal to the government parties: If we create such an independent authority, it is quite important, I believe, that on the one hand, the public prosecutor's expertise in this reform is involved, and on the other hand, if we are to deal with such an important issue and set up a new, good authority, it will also be important to involve Parliament accordingly and in the negotiation process in order to involve this new authority. This is a wish and a call for the Federal Government! The expertise of the People's Procuratorate should in no way be dropped under the table. There seems to be a little bit more to it with the interface to the Ministry of the Interior. Ladies and gentlemen, I can conclude by saying: Thank you to the People's Procuratorate for the proximity you prove, and for the high-quality work you do. Thank you, Mr Volksanwälte, but also a very special thanks to the staff of the People's Procuratorate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e29852	Mr Volksanwalt Bernhard Achitz has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e29874	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the great praise that our employees have received, we will gladly pass it on. Thank you also for the lively discussion. It makes me hope that we will achieve the goal we are pursuing with these reports, namely to eliminate abuses and to improve the situation for citizens, but on a number of points. Some things are done relatively quickly by the public prosecutor's intervention, but many others need an intervention by the legislator or at least an increased pressure on politics to change patterns and to increase the public administration. In the auditing control of the administration, we started detailed examination procedures with 8 777 of these 18 000 complaints which have already been addressed more often. This already shows that there is still potential for improvement and that there are things that massively burden citizens. I will then give some examples. 25 per cent of the examinations concern social, health, care, about 21 per cent concern the area of justice, 19 per cent concern internal security – these are the biggest chunks, and this does not change over the years. We have also again presented the report on preventive human rights control. This is based on 448 checks carried out by our Commissions. Which is also worrying and wherever I hope that this will soon improve: In 73 per cent of all cases, 73 per cent of all visits, the Commissions have identified problems, problems in respect of human rights. This involves real violations of human rights – unlawful restrictions on freedom, fixations and the like – up to problems in the organisation of an institution, so that human rights violations can be feared in the future. I will also give you some examples and show you something. We have made the Covid report because Covid has faced a particular challenge to policy and administration; it is something new. It is a very narrow walk between the rights of freedom of individuals and the health protection of the general public. This has in some cases been very successful, in many cases less successful. It has been continuously improved, but it shows us potential where to really make plans, where to develop strategies in the drawer, so that you can react faster and more accurately when something like this appears again. I don't want to hide the fact that we're still working on some 300 home-sacrifice pensions each year. This too is a bit depressing that in the fourth year in which we implement this law, the number of applications does not fall as expected, but remains more or less constant. That is to say, between 1945 and 1999, thousands of people were severely abused in the homes in Austria, and some still hesitate to file a claim for compensation. We don't notice any decline here. I have promised to address a number of issues that are notable and which are always repeated, or which are particularly exciting or annoyed by the citizens. The one area I would like to address from the auditing administration is health insurance. As a result, people were given equal benefits for equal contributions, and they were also promised that reform measures in the administration would not suffer the benefits. These promises were made, so many, often unfulfilled. We have complaints that benefits that were granted a few years ago are now no longer granted in some areas. The latest cases concern incontinence supply. We have complaints that the same performance in different federal states has different financial consequences, and that the same performance is not always provided in the same quality and the same way. I would ask you to pay particular attention to this part of the report. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the family sector, it is obvious that we have excellent family benefits, in the exercise, but in the payment of this family benefit often there are major problems and in many cases the childcare allowance is paid very late or not at all, although the people are entitled to them. This is particularly striking in connection with mother-child-pass examinations, where child-care benefits are retained if it is claimed that the studies have not been carried out. The problem is just: Even if they have been carried out but this has not been proved in good time, the childcare allowance will be retained. I think that this is essential in times like these, where such investigations should have long since been electronically recorded. The implementation of the childcare allowance is difficult even if a partner stops abroad. It often takes a very long time for people to come to their demands, and they have to overcome many bureaucratic obstacles that could be avoided from our point of view. I would like to draw some lessons from the pandemic in preventive human rights control. We have noticed how vulnerable our care system is, both in the 24-hour care and in the stationary care. In the first lockdown, 24 hour caregivers could not enter in time due to quarantine regulations, due to border closures, to ensure the care of all those in 24-hour care. There is absolutely a need for strategies that make us less dependent on foreign caregivers. However, this dependence also exists in stationary care, as Eastern Austria has shown us, because these border closures have also led, among other things, to the fact that many facilities in Eastern Austria had too few staff. This could not be replaced in the short term. We have not been able to compensate for failures caused by diseases in time, and this has, of course, had a particularly difficult time in addition to the quality of care. That takes concepts and strategies to counter. Finally, a few comments on the Covid report: Yes, there have been rapid reactions to some problems, but in some cases it has taken us too long. It took weeks for us to have received guidelines for the visit of the Human Rights Commissions to the institutions in the public prosecutor's office. We asked what security rules we should comply with. It took a very, very long time for us to get a feedback. It took even longer to develop strategies that have led to the fact that residents of nursing homes were no longer imprisoned and visits could be re-established, and in some areas it takes some time to develop federal strategies. The latest example is the vaccination strategy, which in recent months has very many citizens, very excited, because they have not understood why some groups in a federal state are coming in, in the other federal country not yet arrived. There has been no uniform strategy, which has been very excited. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So far only a few headlines from the report. As I said, because of the discussion, I am confident that many things we highlight can be improved and suggestions are taken up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e29986	Thank you. Mr Volksanwalt Werner Amon has now been reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e30010	Madam President. Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! This report is probably the most comprehensive report the public prosecutor has ever presented. For the first time – Mr Achitz referred to this, and it was often discussed in the debate – he covers three volumes. We have long discussed how to deal with the pandemic – in view of the fact that the House is very quick to receive a report on the measures that have been put forward – and we have just agreed on a third volume, which, of course, partly reflects the auditing control in connection with the pandemic, but can also include the preventive parts, but is, so to speak, a collected work with regard to the actions during the pandemic, which, of course, has also presented special challenges to the public prosecutors. I would like to point out that, I think, it is a good sign that we have received about 18 000 complaints this year in 2020. Now it's not the butcher's victim for one person or another, that he thinks that it's been particularly badly worked, but I mean it in terms of: Although we had difficulties maintaining the speech, although there was sometimes no possibility that citizens could come to the public prosecutor's office, we were able to maintain lowliness of mind, and there were actually more citizens than ever before with their concerns to the public prosecutor's office. I think that has also been an important and a proper signal about dealing with this not quite simple situation. I would like to thank you for having been able for two days to discuss in full the reports in the People's Procuratorate Committee that the House has been very intensive in dealing with these reports. In my business, 8 777 test procedures 2 616 were carried out in the public prosecutor's office as a whole, i.e. about 30 percent. Of these, 1,221 were in the field of justice, which is a plus of about 10 percent. I would like to expressly stress - I believe Mr Lausch has mentioned this - that the increase in complaints in the judicial system was not due to the pandemic. [[Abg. It's all right.]] It is indeed, as you have said, that from our point of view, the Directorate-General for Criminal Enforcement has done a very, very good job by reacting quickly, but that we have a dramatic situation overall in the execution of the sentence, in particular in the execution of measures. The complaints, of course, come not only from inmates, they also come from employees in prison, because the conditions in Weitem are no longer the same as they should be. In part, the conditions are also unworthy of human beings, I would like to say very clearly. We have overcrowding, we have some structurally dramatic situations in judicial institutions, and we have, in particular, a situation that is no longer sustainable, a situation that is not sustainable. We Over the last five years, there has been an increase of 60 per cent, of about 1 300 people in the implementation of measures, and this is a condition that is already to be questioned, especially if you have only one institution, namely asten, which is suitable for the implementation of measures. We expressly welcome the reform proposals made by the Federal Government, but we are not here at the end of the flag rod, I would also like to say that. Nor have all the proposals that we have actually had in our reports for many years been taken up. I would like to say a few words about statistics. In my business or overall, 20.6 percent of the audits in the field of justice, 4.4 percent in the field of financial management, 0.8 percent in the field of the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs, 0.6 percent in the field of national defence, and 2 840 audit procedures we had in the state and municipal administration, and there actually every fifth complaint has to do with the building law and the spatial order. There, too, the state legislators are called upon to consider whether the rules we have here are, in part, far too complex, far too complicated, as that often small municipalities – mayor of the first instance as a building authority – have grown. There are over-requirements, we note. We also work very closely with the municipal government to enable training courses, lectures to avoid mistakes in the future. In the area of financial management, I would like to say that we are increasingly receiving complaints with regard to the accessibility of the relevant experts. This accessibility was no longer given, it was very difficult to see the hotlines being overburdened. I think there is a need to do something to continue making financial management civil. Last, not least, I would like to address a point that is very important to us because, in the course of the Covid measures, we have also experienced that caregivers who come from abroad to us who have a job here, who pay social security contributions here, who pay taxes here, have not been able to enter for a while and, so to speak, the financial compensation could not be granted because they did not have an Austrian bank account. These cases could be resolved quickly. I am glad that there is a positive culture of error in many parts of the Austrian administration – in terms of the fact that, if they exist, errors are also corrected that things are being corrected again. It's good that this happens. Of course, there are also a few cases that accompany us longer because it is more difficult to deal with the mistakes, but we are stubborn and do not leave behind. All in all, I would also like to thank you for the positive speech you can pass on one too one to the employees – only a small part is with us here in the house today – in the People's Procuratorate. There are great employees who work very objectively with great commitment and incredible expertise. I think Parliament can happily appreciate that it has an institution like the People's Procuratorate with such great employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e30078	Now Mr. Volksanwalt Walter Rosenkranz is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e30104	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I can speak to you this way, since I have been sitting here in the hall for a while on the other side and I know a lot of you from earlier. [[Abg. Obernoster: Of course!]] Estimated colleagues in the People's Procuratorate! The praise you have donated is right, including the expertise. You can say one thing: It is not boring in the public prosecutor's office because each individual case is always a little different. It simply doesn't come in a routine; maybe at something I'll come to talk to a little later. Every case is different. Just think about the employees who have to control the home-sacrifice pension. Mr Achitz mentioned it: 300 complaints a year, i.e. daily, from the working day onwards, a complaint. You already have to be able to endure a lot, even as a specialist, if you get to read these individual fates of abuses in children's and youth institutions from 1945 to 1999 as they worked there. You're not being bred by this, that's very close to you. These cases are also well handled and solved. A question was raised between two Members earlier, who meant that this report should not be dealt with politically. - I think so. If one sees politics as the Platon wrote in his polity, namely that it is about the success of the community with a right to justice, then this report should in itself very well stimulate political discussion. However, how much this is seen by you, ladies and gentlemen, by your electorate or by the political groups and here, censorships are distributed on the scale of one to five, which is certainly not the case of the People's Procuratorate. We shall present our report. I already mentioned it: Justice plays a role. There are a lot of people coming to us who say that this and that is unfair. – This can be so in individual cases due to the legal situation. The administration is based on the laws, and yet this can lead to injustice from the point of view of one or another. These injustices can often go so far as to encourage the public prosecutor to settle this at the legal level from the point of view of the legislator, because if the administration did not comply with the law, it would commit abuse of power. That is, the basics are still the laws, even if they may appear unfair in a single case, in a case of hardship. What we see, and this also improves, is the question of how to deal with it when an abuse is detected – that is always referred to as a culture of error. There is still one thing or another in which one can make peace with simple things. I am thinking of a case where a caregiver has turned to us from a home to which bad masks have been delivered from a batch, because they have not been tested as well as medical articles, but have come from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and via the Eich- und Vereistungsamt, where the samples have not been made so complete, and there has been a whole retirement home getting bad masks. That was not the problem that this caregiver had there, his problem was that, when it came up – the whole home, both the caregivers and the parents who are inside, they got these bad masks – no one said to you from the administration: I'm sorry this happened to us. – That was actually his complaint he had. So it is often really small human problems that can be solved more easily than what is rightly addressed by us, but also by you here. - Yes, then you have to do something! This needs to be improved, the implementation of measures – whether they are the iron doors or the rubber doors or something else – because we read this relatively often. This brings me now to repeat what is going through our work again and again, namely that the administration says when it comes to the accessibility of police inspections in my business, for example, the budget is missing. – The budget, ladies and gentlemen, is what you decide. So I hope that these reports will also produce something, because, if you have these demands and these wishes, you, of course, as a budget legislator, are also responsible here for making the necessary budget resources available, or to look to the government as auditors to see that this money, which is made available, is then used in a meaningful and in your interest. In my business, specific questions from the Ministry of the Interior were addressed. The long procedural periods have been referred to with regard to the enforcement of foreign law, asylum law, but also citizenship law, and I would like to say one thing: There are also successes. A critical point was always the long procedural periods, especially in Vienna in the Magistrates Department 35. That's where I can tell you: Only a few days ago, a delegation from the Magistrates' Division 35 was with us in the People's Procuratorate and told us what improvements are being made in concrete terms – for example, regarding the question of telephone availability that there will be an extra service station. There will be additional staff to remedy this situation. That sounds very good, and we believe that the People's Procuratorate has achieved improvements with its long-standing criticism. It also raised the question of the body to deal with abuses in the police, which is in the government programme, where a corresponding working group meets, not with the involvement of the public prosecutor – but of course we are interested and also willing to involve our expertise there – although in other areas, for example in the re-establishment of police stop centres, especially in Linz, our experts from the People's Procuratorate were very likely involved in planning. So that's actually happening! There is also another basis of trust on us, just as the work of the Commissions in the context of the National Prevention Mechanism is concerned: It is no longer understood as an enemy when a Commission is at the door. This may also be due to the fact that the People's Procuratorate has been involved for years in the training of young police officers – but also in those in the judicial field – and explains this. One point was the demonstrations addressed by Mr Stegmüller and the lack of deescalation. I have to say one thing: that the Commissions involved in the demonstrations are very likely to speak in large part of the fact that a large number of rallys and demonstrations have been carried out extremely decisively and de-escalingly, but there have been and are outsiders. Of course, there is the fundamental right – especially when you address Corona demonstrations – to health and the fundamental right to freedom of expression, to freedom of assembly, to weigh the right of demonstration. Mr Stegmüller described this in such a way that he said: [[Call the Greens:Stögmüller!]] Well, there are the Coronaleugners and then there are the walkers on 1st. May. - We can't make a difference! The Coronaleugner, the 1st-May-Spazier, whatever: Everyone is with us human beings with the same rights, and he also has the right to be treated accordingly at a demonstration. That's not what the individual is doing. In the case of demonstrations, there are always those who break the right – quite clearly!, there are also meeting solutions – but on the other hand, of course, there is the question of whether the application tactics on the ground were actually in individual cases what you called de-escaling. It's really the question – and I'm also checking it exactly at the moment – whether in Corona times encirclings with penetratings, where between all those inside, the distances are reduced, are displayed. And if, after the resolution, people cannot flow down, but can only pass through a 3 meter wide drawn grating, and to the left and right a police officer stands, it is tactically to ask: If every good citizen has to have 2 meters of security distance, where should he now go through at a 3 meter wide opening, while at the left and right the distance to the policeman, let alone when exactly at this small split all have to pass 300, 400 at once. So these questions of application tactics arise. And it is also the case that was addressed – I don't know who exactly it was – in which the two police officers went through the market with the motorcycles. I can still say to Mr Einwallner – he asked the committee about the BAT investigation as to how the state of the investigation is going – that: In the Committee I have reported that we are awaiting an opinion from the Ministry of the Interior. In the meantime, it has come to an end – it is also very extensive – and it is likely that the review will end very quickly now, and a corresponding report can also be presented in this regard. In conclusion: Thank you for the good discussion, also in the committee! We are probably looking forward to what Corona 2021 will bring us. I can tell you one thing: The figures will be no less.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e30153	I, too, would like to thank the People's Lawyers and give the floor to Mr Josef Hechenberger as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e30174	Thank you very much, Madam President. Estimated Volksanwälte! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Very special, however: valued spectators! We have heard a lot about the Volksanwälte report today. You have to look at this: These are these three volumes, which I have read very carefully personally and I really can thank the lawyers for their work at this point. [[Keeping up-to-date volumes]] If the People's Procuratorate were not yet, then one would have to invent it because I think it is the possibility for the people to really express or articulate their problems at a very low level. But I'm allowed to hold one at this point: The government is very interested in not only taking note of the recommendations of the Volksanwälte, but also in implementing them. I think there has been a great deal of success lately, and I would now like to give a few examples. First of all, the inspection of the police inspections; the 50 were the ones last year. There can be read from structural defects to human under-employment. In this context, I would like to reflect on my home district of Kufstein. The discussion is currently under way to bring together the Kramsach police inspection with the Kundl police inspection. As my appeal to the decision-makers that one does not close police inspections at the expense of the population, at the expense of the employees, but at the expense of the safety of the people. I think Kundl Police Station is an important institution. A second point: I was recently with the managing director Klaus Mair, who heads the protected workshop in Schwaz, and I was able to imagine how fast and efficient people with disabilities there would be thanks to God to find a job and thus get a valuable job. We have already set out in the government programme: not a pocket money, but a wage for people with disabilities, if they ultimately provide a valuable service for all of us, but in particular for themselves. Finally, my urgent appeal to the population: Take advantage of the opportunity and take advantage of the help of the Volksanwälte! Go on, if there's any trouble! It is also quite clear to us as a decision-makers: We will continue to take note of the public prosecutor's recommendations and expertise with all its employees not only, but also, according to the best knowledge and for the good of the population, and thus ultimately develop the administration. – In this sense: thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e30219	Mr Mario Lindner has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e30244	Highly esteemed Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! In advance, thank you to Mr. Volksanwälte, a thank you to all employees of the Volksanwaltschaft and a great thank you for the Covid-19 report, especially for the chapter Work and Economy. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, numerous complaints have been received from the Public Procuratorate: Complaints about short-term work, complaints about the hardness fund, complaints about the fixed cost grant, complaints about bureaucratic obstacles, complaints about late disbursements, complaints about lack of opposition as well as gaps and weaknesses in the aid packages. – So that with the help is not as great as the government always claims. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I asked the members of the Committee the following question: Would a solution have been possible with regard to the Cofag, i.e. the funding agency of the federal government that manages these services, in which the People's Procuratorate could have examined Cofag as a legal point of contact to ensure the equality of all stakeholders? Unfortunately, the People's Procuratorate cannot formally examine the Cofag, but it would like to examine it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, as legislators, we should give the People's Procuratorate the proficiency for the Cofag, and this is best today! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Because I am just helping, I will come back once again to the beginning of today's sitting. The trade union GPA, the trade union Vida and the trade union Younion today are quite right to have the Coronabonus for all workers in the health field. Workers required. Estimated colleague Wöginger, I don't know if you forgot, but you were once head of the Red Cross's Central Works Council in Upper Austria. Dear Gust Wöginger, the rescue anities, mainly or volunteerly, plus the civilians deserved this bonus. So, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen: Come with the Coronabonus for everyone!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e30292	No one is reporting on this. That concludes this debate. I ask the rapporteur whether he would like a final word. - That's not the case. I ask the clubs whether we can take part in the voting process. - Well, I'll do the same. We shall vote on the request of the Public Prosecutor's Committee to take note of this report III-224 of the Supplements. Whoever speaks for the notice, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This has been unanimously noted. The agenda is exhausted. [[23:46:10]] Short debate on a request to extend Ibiza-UsA
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e30338	We come to a brief debate on the request of the minority of members according to § 53 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Examining Committees on the extension by three months of the Committee of Inquiry on ‘probable buyability of the Turkish-blue Federal Government’. The Rules of Procedure are known to you all, and I give the floor to Mrs Stephanie Krisper as the first speaker and founder. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e30363	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! We have a plenary day behind us, where many fairy tales of the ÖVP went down like honey, because the topics are complex and you can't see where the ÖVP is a bit preoccupied. Where you, ladies and gentlemen, may already know more often when the ÖVP behaves dubios, is when it comes to the Ibiza Investigation Committee. A Finance Minister remembers at the beginning of the U Committee when he cannot yet know what is happening to evidence, almost nothing at all to be sure. [[Abg. Hanger: You remember what you said, don't you?]] Despite increasing partiality, a chairman Wolfgang Sobotka does not give his place because he is very helpful with his destructive leadership of the ÖVP. In the cabinet of a chancellor In short, everything relevant was deleted, even the calendar. A Finance Minister will not deliver the files to him until the opposition at the VfGH comes to its right and the Federal President is almost at the door of the execution, but then in an illegal paper form with which we cannot work – plump-embracing, which almost everyone understands. Despite this fruitification of the ÖVP, we have done a lot of information work. The Private Hospital Fund has been massively increased in favour of FPÖ and ÖVP donors – at the expense of taxpayers. We have worked out the proximity of Novomatic to the ÖVP and also to the FPÖ, starting with the high flow of money from Novomatic to a small Lower Austrian Alois-Mock Memorial Association. ÖVP donors, sponsors or their family members are conspicuously often in supervisory councils, and that brings me to a main point. Sebastian Kurz promised. Performance must be rewarded again! He broke this promise, personally! I'm just saying, Thomas Schmid. He has written himself a tender for the Öbag sole board, himself with the Federal Chancellor and the rest of the turquoise family selected the Supervisory Board, which then selected him for the best. This is post-chakers of the worst sort and has nothing to do with a new style that has promised short. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] It is also significant that Schmid had to go only when it came out that he calls the people he manages the assets of which he calls “poors” and animals. Sebastian Kurz's promise to stop posting was an important one. Why? “Why, for example, should this interest a farmer in the wine district?” Kreutner, former head of the BIA Anticorruption Office, says in the “Falter” interview: “Because the farmer in the Weinviertel probably also has children who go to school and eventually want to have a job. And these children should also have the right to get their schooling, their qualifications and their wishes according to a job, without a party book, a party donation, or without knowing someone who is telling you something. The final effect is a fair match". – That’s just a fundamental concern of us NEOS – that he/she should become something that can do something, and not who knows someone. Kreutner, who has done this, is one of the supporters of the anticorruption popular desire you, Mr Hanger, want to sign. Another point from our successful work in the U Committee [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Can you read anything except what?]] By questioning Christina Jilek, for example, she became aware of how she felt in the Ibiza proceedings as a prosecutor and why she went. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Yes, exactly! Procedural judges and read out!]] She was confronted with fires, with harassous service complaints, instructions and reporting obligations. This is the Pilnacek system! It went on even further: Brisant acts have been illegally sent, and Pilnacek – under quotation marks: “Who is preparing Gernot for the hearing?” – as one of the highest officials of the judiciary, actively addressed the question of the defence of an acting accused Federal Minister of the ÖVP. Now he's suspended. We could also do something against the cover-up of the ÖVP [[Abg. You're a liar!]] The scrapping process was resumed because we were able to prove that some of the disks of laptops had been scraped away from the intended procedure, by someone under the wrong name, without paying the bill, three times. All of this is more than unpleasant for the ÖVP. That is why the ÖVP is wilful because it does not believe in the investigations against itself and, above all, does not want to allow them to do so, and does not frighten them back in their defence against justice and justice. [[In the case of NEOS, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Haven't you seen him?]] And this is indeed the danger: When it comes to protecting the turquoise family, i.e. Sebastian Kurz and his entourage, the ÖVP is also not afraid to attack the other pillars of democracy – the first being the Parliament in the form of the Committee of Inquiry. The ÖVP has been doing nothing but yelling for weeks: Privates are not safe from the evil opposition in the investigation committee! [[Call the ÖVP: But also vote!]] , stasi comparisons are not too crazy for you either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] So let's talk about the chats! As a member of the Committee of Inquiry, I would be pleased to read serious protocols from a Minister of Finance, Löger, who would actually be responsible for discussing the competence of potential candidates for the Supervisory Board – protocols that have been delivered as a document to the U-committee. We do not have this condition under the government of Kurz I; instead, we get chats of the turquoise family, from Kurz, Schmid, Blümel and others – all incompetently – about who will be the Supervisory Board to make Thomas Schmid the sole board. – This is professional, not private! What else are we reading? – The fact that a senior official of the Ministry of Justice and a constitutional judge express himself in deplorable, disdainful, disrespectful terms about the Constitutional Court, its members, the WKStA and the rule of law. This is also a professional and a serious threat to the rule of law, and the public is therefore entitled to experience it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger]] The relevance of this publication has not even challenged you, Mr Hanger, who is otherwise very imaginative in reasoning. [[Abg. Hanger: You broke the right...!]] And, Mr. Hanger: The U Committee receives these correspondences under the legal regulations and the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, and each chat is judged individually and then released and delivered by the judiciary itself. If it condemns the ÖVP so that we get chats, why did you, Mr. Hanger, want to have all the chats of the WKSTA in the last U committee? Apparently there are good chats and common chats. [[Abg. Hanger: Would you have supported this?]] That was Parliament. How does the ÖVP attack the justice without skrupel? [[Abg. Hanger: Not at all! You know that very well! ...!]] If the ÖVP were a state-bearing party with a pure conscience, it would simply let justice work. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hanger.]] But no, for more than a year, the WKStA frontal has been attacked by Sebastian. [[Call to the ÖVP:... the speaking time is over!]] We do not even hear criticism of the Pilnacek system from the ÖVP – of course not – but rather files are leaked by the ÖVP to push it into the shoes medial of the WKSTA. [[Vivid calls at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] This shame really robs you of breath. Now, through its surveys, the ÖVP has clearly seen that we citizens are very much on the rule of law and appreciate it and that it doesn't matter if you criticize it. So the ÖVP is now specifically attacking WKStA's experts. Exciting that none of the accused of using a legal remedy on the part of the ÖVP, such as the ordinary citizen, the ordinary citizen, but the ÖVP uses the paths of press conferences et cetera closed to a normal citizen for false accusations and also indicates those Ibizasmen who have not yet given up. I thought there were only politically motivated ads, but apparently there are evil ads and good ads. [[Abg. Hanger: You just do the good, don't you?]] Irritatingly, it must have been especially for Christina Jilek – that important force in the Ibiza investigation team, which was crushed – that colleague hanger wants to sign this anticorruption popular desire that she supports now. The ÖVP seems to try everything, including the to-death embrace. [[Abg. Zarits: Shouldn't he sign it now, or what?]] In any case, the ÖVP manages very well to trick and deceive, and it works with misinformation and attacks on your deception, dear spectators and spectators! Then, at some point, the focus of the debate is no longer right, and as Harry Bergmann wrote very correctly: “Where you see the weight is not right. The state of the Ibiza video weighs harder than its content. The cleanliness of the footnails of a alleged oligarch net weighs more than the planned sale of the Republic. The larmoyance of the respondents in the investigation committee weighs harder than their silence or their lies. A house search with a politician weighs harder than the find. Suspension weighs more than mystery. And then, the sweet power. The power weighs more than what one might change with this power for people to improve. Gaining power weighs more than the will of those who have chosen one. Maintaining power weighs more than the corrupt behavior that many feel is necessary for it." [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Reading...!]] In this sense: Successful deception of the ÖVP back and forth, we continue to work on information, and it may be that there is a disappointment among the citizens who thought they could trust the turquoise family and their supposed new style. To be freed from deception is not a pleasant process, but after the disappointment you have a clear look again. We want to bring this information to an end in the U Committee. For this we need an extension for the files of Minister Blümel, Chancellor Korz and the chats of Thomas Schmid because of the anti-inhibiting, de facto-free forces from the ÖVP. [[Call to the ÖVP: The speaking time is over!]] The delaying tactics of the ÖVP should not be successful! Dear Greens, be there at the extension!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e30611	I now give the floor to Mr Klaus Fürlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e30638	I am going to speak at the ghost's hour, and at the spirit's hour we have always been told the most cruel and creepy fairy tales. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Although this was quickly read by Mr Krisper, it is and remains a fairy tale, which has also been performed very uninspired. Ladies and gentlemen, in December 2019 we set up a committee of inquiry, which started its work in March 2020, was extended in April 2021, and now will be sitting there for 15 months. The information people were all there twice, most now come a third time, and the information they gave was not so illuminating at Weitem. It may be that it corresponds to the imagination of individual Members of this House to gather from it those fairy tales that have been offered here for days and weeks. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] The following shall apply: As the bad guy thinks, he's like that. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] The only thing, ladies and gentlemen, that interests individual members of this House is this merciless voyeurism, is to feel almost erotic when you read any private mobile messages that have nothing to do with the investigative committee in truth, but consider the possibility of a bit medial marketing [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP]] [[lively calls to the SPÖ]] The Commission will [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] For this we even commit a breach of justice, for which we leak out things that have been and are still proud of them. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] Ladies and gentlemen in the Hooligan sector of the SPÖ may calm down, I am still -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e30747	Mr President, I would ask you to be moderate in your expression. We are in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e30786	Madam President, of course I would like to say yes. However, I would ask you to lead colleagues from SPÖ to lower the tone a little. Then, I think, we're all one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] In proportion to my tone, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say one thing: I look forward to the days after the 1. July. I look forward to the days when we get away from destruction to construction, from destruction to cooperation, from slandering individuals to a personal appreciation and from making bad for individuals to making better for all. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] That is where we have to go, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is the task of politics. The task of politics is not to make politics against individuals, but for the people in this country. [[Mr Tomaselli and Mr Matznetter.]] This recognition by individual members of this House – and this does not apply to all – has done a great deal of damage to politics as a whole, much more than you believe, ladies and gentlemen, and you will all do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am looking forward, ladies and gentlemen, to a summer of cooling off the political climate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] It is said to lead back to where we belong, to a common political work this autumn, to return to the mandate of politics. Given the volume from this sector and in view of the fairy tale hour before, I close with a quote by Wilhelm Busch: [[towards SPÖ]] For the present I am a pessimist, for the future I remain optimist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e30879	I now give the floor to Mr Kai Jan Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e30904	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! In fact, this House has several tasks, essentially three: One is the legislation – which will probably only go together – the second is budgetary sovereignty – that is only common; without our help there would have been no functioning budget in 2020 – and the third is control, which in fact only goes together. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Ah Rufe at ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] Why you are withdrawing from this control and thus sabotaging this control, you have to explain that, I don't have to explain that. The control of the government is one of the core tasks of this Parliament, and you want to prevent this control from taking place in the past, in the present and apparently in the future. I say: There are simple precedents. This is not the first time a minority says: We want to extend a committee of inquiry and make a request here in plenary. – This happened at the Hypo-Research Committee in 2016. At that time, the minority of the institutions – by the way, the Greens and the Liberals at the time – introduced the application here, and they said: We're not done with our investigation committee yet! Quite honest: I was then a member of the government, the leader of the SPÖ Group in this committee. I wouldn't have come up with the idea in 100 years to say: Well, you can use it once more and you can scrap the one and a half million pages of files and have them delivered again half a year later! – I wouldn't have come to this idea in my dream. [[Call the ÖVP:No!]] What did we do instead? We have, of course, agreed to the extension, because if the Committee of Inquiry is not done with its work, it is simply pragmatically the only right thing to say: Then he'll have three months left to do this! [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] At the time, there was no problem that a government party tried to boycott this investigation committee from day to day, for example, by not providing the files. I have often mentioned today how often the files were requested, how often Minister Blümel, how often German Chancellors briefly negated these file requirements and did not explicitly deliver them. ==References====External links== March recognises that Minister Blümel is obliged to deliver these files and documents, and he has not delivered them anyway. ==References====External links== In May, he was asked to conduct the execution, and still did not complete. Mr Gerstl came out of this today and made an actual correction, meaning that Minister of Finance Blümel had delivered everything in the meantime. I have a letter here that came today concerning a letter from me of 9. June, in which we drew the Minister's attention to the fact that all the documents are still not available. [[Keeping a document in height]] - And what does he write to us? – Due to a mistake – and then a list of files and documents – has not been wrongly transmitted to the Investigation Committee. Drawn: ==References== June. For the Federal Minister for Finance. - Quote. So he himself has admitted today that he has not yet delivered all the files and documents to which the Constitutional Court has committed him. I have never experienced such a destructive process in a committee of inquiry as Minister Blümel has. The question is: How do we deal with it as a house? – We say: We're not finished yet. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] We have not even received all the files and documents, although the Constitutional Court decided more than three months ago: These files and documents must be delivered! The Minister admits today that he has not done so until today. The question is: How do we deal with this control task, which we all have in common? Let's say: Yes, the investigative committee is supposed to be done by October and then report it, or are you coming with your shield-citizen's strip, we are supposed to scrape one and a half million files and then start anew and fight for every act and every e-mail and every paper? I'm making an appeal to everyone here in the house: The task of control not only has the opposition, but we all have it. Their task is not to hinder them, but to promote them just as we did when we were the government party. [[In the case of SPÖ and NEOS, members of the FPÖ and the Agg. Bitch.]] This is particularly true of the Greens. Because the football European Championship is currently running: Fair Play belongs to the fact that there is a follow-up time when a team violates time – and like the ÖVP has never done anyone any time; that's fair play. The question is: Are the Greens also for Fair Play?
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e30979	The next item is the speech by Mr Christian Hafenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e31001	When colleague Fürlinger spoke about the “spiritual hour ” and the“ fairy tale hour ” earlier, he should have heard his own speech. Mr Fürlinger, I think you are basically a very, very intelligent colleague, but if you want to make us aware that it is the ÖVP that is not politically against individuals, then I would like to ask you to just look through your press releases of the past few weeks. Think about who all of you have called for resignation and how you have addressed individuals in a very specific way! [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] If one listens to whom all Mr Hanger's colleagues are showing and which prosecutors of Mr Hanger are constantly drawn in front of the curtain, then one must already consider whether the ÖVP actually does not go politically on individual persons. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] [[Call the ÖVP:... not said!]] – Nervousness is an insanity, but good. A story, Mr Fürlinger, you have also remained guilty to us on the question – that was, by the way, relative to the beginning of the investigation committee – where the ÖVP leak is now actually. I am constantly hearing that NEOS is being accused of publishing data. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] [[Abg. Hanger: They admitted it themselves, Mr. Hafenecker!]] But we know from the WKStA that there have just been files from the ÖVP that have been played on media. Mr Sobotka has promised us an investigation and clarification of the circumstances. That hasn't happened to this day. This is the “obstruction” that is made daily in the Committee of Inquiry, of which Mrs Colleague of the NEOS has spoken. You make some empty announcements – you do this, you do that – you mean time – there has been absolutely right for colleague Krainer – and we do not even have all the files that we need to continue our work. That is exactly why we also believe that this Committee of Inquiry should of course be extended. One must also do this as a pedagogical measure, because the ÖVP does not need to keep all the registers in order to somehow extend out of responsibility, but in principle we must meet the ÖVP exactly where it is, and let it stop once with the dizziness. If we look at Mr Blümel and look at what he has listed with the Committee of Inquiry, how we are constantly being led behind when he comes here and builds health records from employees into a file delivery only so that one can classify them at level 3 if one considers that Mr. Federal Minister Blümel has his own telephone book classified at level 4 – that is the level of state secrets of the highest order –: I mean, Mr Blümel may already be important, but so important that his phonebook classification level 4 is not included. It's just a sabotage act. They just play with the other parties here in the house Katz and Mouse. We cannot let this happen to you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! One thing, because I was just talking about the fact that Mr Blümel gave us this delivery in grade 3: These are one and a half football field files that we must manually search, because with your classification level 3 you have prevented us from evaluating them electronically. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Mr Wöginger, these are the sabotage acts that you send us every day in the Committee of Inquiry. That's the point we're saying. [[Abg. Wöginger: What do I want now?]] We don't want to take that! But what are the greens doing? – The Greens are climbers and ODP agents. In principle, this is actually a very, very embarrassing appearance. I have still had the honour of making a committee of inquiry with colleague Moser. She would turn around in the grave if she could see what you've done from her inheritance. [[Green call for tender]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens are always trying to get ready again and again. I'm excited what the stand will tell me right after me at the speaker's desk. The propensity would not be allowed to let the ÖVP pass through this mesh. The propensity would be to ensure that you are truly sustainable intelligible. I hope that the Greens will find this fate, which they are constantly trying to find somewhere. Maybe one of them to the conclusion: We have already heard today – Mr Hanger of the ÖVP has already said it – that this anti-corruption popular desire is also quite widely supported by the ÖVP. I only advise you, Mr Hanger: Read again what's in it, because it's against corruption. Look So let's see if you really want to support this.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e31097	Mrs. Sigrid Maurer is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e31128	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! [[Abg. Hafenecker: I would rather the colleague Tomaselli, who knows herself!]] They observe a debate that we have already held in this form. All right, let's take her one more time. [[Abg. Listen:... to the speaker's desk!]] It is, as we all know, a request for the extension of the Committee of Inquiry. [[Abg. Hafenecker: The colleague Tomaselli would know each other!]] The investigative committee has already been extended twice, once corona due to a change of law, once with a minority extension on the part of the opposition. [[Abg. Lausch:... the last time already said!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] Now there should be another extension if it goes after the opposition. Do we find greens, the U-committee should continue to work and be extended? - Yes. Does the ÖVP think it shouldn't be like that? - Yes. What options does the opposition have? – It can simply re-establish the U-committee. Why can she do that? – Because we Greens have fought the minority right for the U Committee. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intercom calls at SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy and NEOS! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] You know that even a period of three months would not be enough so that what you have on the table, or what you would like to process, can actually be completely handled. Of course, that's clear to you yourself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] It is your responsibility, you have it in your hand, which investigation committee is being used. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Everything is possible from an extended subject-matter of investigation on a restricted subject-matter or a new subject-matter based on the findings of the current Ibiza U Committee. You can simply set up a committee of inquiry yourself. I have to say again at this point: It's amazing that the Freedom Party is standing here and pretending to be the Clean Party. [[Abg. Lausch: You already said that!]] Why is the Ibiza U committee called? – Because a liberal party leader was in Ibiza and said something about it: You can buy the Republic! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] I am convinced that the opposition will make a wise decision regarding the new U-committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] It is likely that the application will be made on 22 March. In September, the U Committee will start working in December and get all the files that are still pending. Finally, I would like to extend Mr Krainer, who is just breaking into his mask: Mr Krainer, you have been a Member of Parliament since 2002. At that time, the Committee of Inquiry was not a minority right. Since then, the U-committees have taken place Eurofighter one, banks, Bawag, BMI spitzel, corrupt U-committee for Telekom and Bouwog. In any case, Eurofighters one, banks and Telekom/Buwog were turned off with majority decision on a deadline application. Mr. Krainer, either were You just went to the toilet or you were involved in the actual turning off of these U-committees! [[Lively condolences with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Krainer: At the Klok was only the colleague Wöginger in the vote!]] In contrast to today's: As an opposition, you have the opportunity to set up any x-any U-committee because we Greens, corruption fighters like Gabi Moser who have fought. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deimek and Kassinger]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I forbid, Mr. Hafenecker, that you take the name Gabi Mosers into your mouth. Gabi Moser was an extremely sincere, clean politician who met a very, very high quality standard in her parliamentary work. [[Abg. Deimek: There you were sitting at the back seat!]] It is not on your face to instrumentalize them for your purposes. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] It's how it is. We will not agree to this extension because it is not possible with the ÖVP and we do not believe that it is wise to end a coalition due to a three-month extension of the U-committee. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Call:Woman Tomaselli]] I say it again: It is your responsibility, and I am already very excited, dear NEOS, dear Social Democracy, for which subject you will decide. We'll see it in the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e31362	I now give the floor to Mr Helmut Brandstätter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e31403	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers and Dear Seers! That was interesting, Mrs Maurer, and you have just accused the SPÖ that she has already turned something off, and that's why you're turning a little bit off. [[Objection to ÖVP and Greens.]] People wouldn't understand. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] If, at the same time, you say that the ÖVP would end the coalition if you agreed to an extension, then we are talking about this policy concept – Mr Fürlinger has spoken of the political concept –: [[Abg. Hear:... spoken!]] What kind of political concept is this if a party in such a difficult situation in which we are in Austria would end a government cooperation because the information about past acts should be terminated? – This is actually a peculiar political concept. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] By the way, that's what I wanted to say: It was not the Greens alone who have acted for minority rights, it was also the NEOS, it was the FPÖ, so that even there is the historical truth. [[Call:Thank you]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer:... She didn't even exist yet! She didn't even exist yet!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] Then I'd like to say something. [[Unrest in the hall.]] If rest comes back, Madam President, I would like to continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e31508	I would now ask you to pay attention to the few minutes. You don't have to point out in any direction. I ask everyone not to speak to the speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e31523	Can we get the nervousness down a little? It is stressful for all of us to read much of what we need to read, but I feel that a U-committee is something like Parliament's lymphatic system, which is a cleansing process. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] And again: It's not funny to read that, nor is it good that people have to read it. But you should know what was possible in this country, and hopefully it is no longer possible for someone to write out his own post, that you can put together and think about how to put the churches under pressure, so that they can no longer argue against one. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: OMV!]] [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] The Committee of Inquiry is taking place so that we do not re-establish agreements, as the ÖVP and the FPÖ have done: two to one, my Haberer, your Haberer. [[Call the ÖVP:Do you pay church tax?]] It takes place so that we hopefully don't read anymore that only taxable women have a chance to get a job in the country. These are all things that happened. I think we're convinced that we don't want all of this. Unfortunately, we are in the middle of the Enlightenment, because so many terrible things have happened, and that must be further clarified. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: A few sentences to your...!]] Now I know, my dear colleagues from the ÖVP, you thought there was a FPÖ chief in Ibiza and said terrible things – which is true. That's what you said: Yeah, we need to figure that out now. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Only in the course of the Enlightenment did we then insist that a lot of what was announced in Ibiza was perhaps implemented by ÖVPler. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We need to clarify this in detail, and that is unpleasant to you. What to do So you're next? - Next, radicalize. There was once the word of Watergate. [[Call to the ÖVP:What do you have... OMV...?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] - Listen! At Watergate I was a little affected, but I thought: Well, that's a little bit of a trained team who don't know what happened in Watergate. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] Well, listen! - Well, now they've calmed down. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[The speaker leaves the speaker's desk and retrieves a DVD from his place.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: Oh, the book! Oh, oh!]] At the end of Watergate, the President resigned, you have understood. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But then something worse has come, namely the word that we have been accused of: Stasi methods. All right, now there are some young people here who may not know what the Stasi is, and Mr Hanger doesn't know either. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The Stasi was a - - – Can you listen?- Oh, my God! [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] I don't know how nervous they are! Be quiet once! I'll explain something to you. I'd like to explain something to you. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: We don't have to explain that!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The Stasi was a murder brigade. They killed people specifically. You killed people specifically, and I hope you don't blame anyone. Because it's a little late and you don't have it that way with reading, I brought a video. [[Keeping the DVD “The Life of the Others” in height]] If you look at this video of an Austrian director, Henckel von Donnersmarck, “The Life of the Others”, you can also see how much commonplace in this - -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e31693	I would now really ask that noise levels be reduced and that Mr Brandstätter, whom I have given the floor, give the opportunity to finish his remarks. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] You can then make clear what you are for by the voting behaviour, but now Mr Brandstatter is on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e31744	So please take the word Stasi back. She was not just a murder brigade; whatever they did is to take out individual people, to accuse them of them, to the arrest of the sick. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I don't know if you're familiar with this, right up to the sheriff! You don't do that, stop it! – Always this screaming! [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] One more thing I would like to say, because it is also important: What has also made me very concerned is that young people, the cabinet staff, have acted, who have shown us such a devaluation of Parliament, who have not listened well to what has been said that they have thought: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger]] What are some parliamentarians? Leave us alone! One of them, unfortunately, made the mistake of saying wrong. Well, now he's in front of the prosecutor's office, he has to explain why he said it wrong. This is also true of the Federal Chancellor. [[Call to the ÖVP:Commissioning Journalist!]] - Those you weren't there can't imagine. Mr. Hanger was there. It was a quiet mood, quiet questions, quiet answers, and then he said the untruth. [[Abg. Hanger: That's not true!]] The question is whether the purpose is present. In doing so, we trust the judicial system. They don't trust justice, that's also an essential difference. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You don't trust justice, we trust justice. Let's see what the economic and corruption prosecutor's office is doing, let's see what the courts are doing, and then you can continue to be quite calm.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e31810	Mr President, you now have to write the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e31831	It is essential that so much remains to be explained. That's why I don't want to make you hope. You can turn the committee off now.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e31850	Mr deputies, your speaking time has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e31865	Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e31895	I'm not going to have a word message anymore. The debate is closed. I ask the political groups if we can come to the vote. I would ask the honourable Members to take their seats. We shall come to the vote on the request for a minority of members in accordance with § 53 para. 6 VO-UA for a further three months extension of the Investigation Committee on suspected buyability of the turquoise-blue Federal Government. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for this extension to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. [[00:24:33]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e31932	I announce that self-employed requests 1706/A to 1744/A(E) have been tabled at today's meeting. Request within the meaning of § 99 para. 2 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2021-06-16-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00111_d7e31950	I also announce that, in the context of the Self-employed Application 1706/A, the Court of Auditors' special file on the conduct of the Court of Auditors' review of the ‘Creations in 2020 and 2021 relating to the Covid Pandemic’ in the Federal Ministry of Education, Science and Research, a request of 20 Members within the meaning of § 99 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. As the legal requirements are met, this test of conduct must also be carried out without the decision of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 0.25 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
