ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e2822	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I like the 125. Open the meeting of the National Council and welcome you very warmly. [[Members of all political groups are wearing pink ribbon plugs.]] Our special greeting goes to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany today, for his presence, as is traditionally the case on the occasion of the budget speech, I thank you very much. Welcome, President! [[General condolences.]] I should also like to warmly welcome the President of the Court of Auditors and Mr Volksanwalt Rosenkranz to us. [[General condolences.]] A special greeting applies to Mrs. Feder Lee, she is the granddaughter of Hans Kelsen, the architect of our federal constitution. She's been here in Vienna for several days. A few days ago we celebrated the 140. Hans Kelsen's birthday, his granddaughter is present with her son today. – Welcome here in the Austrian Parliament! I want to give you a very warm welcome at today's fun session! [[General condolences.]] I welcome the ladies and gentlemen of the press and, above all, the ladies and gentlemen who follow us in front of the screens. Members Nico Marchetti, Elisabeth Feichtinger, BEd BEd, Mag are reported to be prevented today. Karin Greiner, Josef Muchitsch, Sabine Schatz, Alois Kainz, Peter Wurmund Michel Reimon, MBA. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e2911	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in other Member States of the European Union has made the following communication: Federal Minister for the EU and Constitution Mag. Karoline Edtstadler is represented by the Federal Minister for Digitalization and Business Location Dr. Margarete Schramböck. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e2944	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I may, in accordance with § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure refer to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Application in accordance with § 69 para. 3 GOG-NR
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e3164	It is my request according to § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to take the Government document on the Federal Finance Act 2022 and its investments in 1034 of the Supplements at first reading. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a sign. – This is unanimously the case. I may announce that the meeting will be broadcast from ORF 2 to 1 p.m., from ORF III to 7.15 p.m. and then, as usual, commented in the TV library. I should like to point out that during today's National Council meeting, two camera teams are on their way on behalf of the Parliamentary Directorate. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e3197	The debate on points 3 to 5, 6 to 11, 13 to 16, 17 to 23 and 24 to 27 of the agenda is proposed. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e3218	A consensus was reached between the members of the Presidential Conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, and speaking times are as follows: ÖVP 185, SPÖ 128, FPÖ 105, Green 95 and NEOS 76 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, 38 minutes, each part of the debate shall be limited to 5 minutes. I'm allowed to vote. If you agree to the speaking time agreement, I would ask for a corresponding sign. – In this case, the morning’s sports hour is once again unanimous. Thank you very much. Let's go into the agenda. [[10:05:19]] 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance on the Government Template on the Federal Finance Act for the year 2022 and investments
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e3267	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. I can give the floor to the Federal Minister. – Mr Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e3291	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Above all: Estimated taxpayers! A year ago, in my budget speech, I said that this budget is the budgetary response to the crisis. Today we know: It was the right answer. It was an answer that led Austria through this crisis. The budget we are presenting to you today is an announcement towards the future, with this budget we want to enable recovery, stability and sustainability for Austria. We have all gone through the pandemic together and now we hope to go into a successful time for our country with new strength and optimism. The faster we leave the pandemic behind us, the faster we return to social, economic and budgetary stability. It is up to each and every one of us to see how quickly the economy can recover and thus also save jobs. With vaccination, mankind has not received an effective antidote even a year after the outbreak of the pandemic, and this is a success of a globalised and networked world, and it is above all a success of science for which we can all be really very grateful. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] But this achievement does not help, of course, if not all people who could do so also take advantage of this offer. We know that the vaccination is effective, we see this also in the utilization of intensive care stations in which hardly people who have been vaccinated need to be treated. Just before winter, I therefore appeal to all those who can be vaccinated to see this option, because this trick can save not only your own life or the other, but also jobs and companies in Austria. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, last year, in this pandemic, we all became witnesses of time. The most serious health and economic crisis has been behind us since the Second World War, and this is, of course, reflected in the budget creation process in addition to many other factors. The government usually submits a budget each year. Through the pandemic, however, we were forced to make adjustments and adaptations up again and again. Special measures were needed in these exceptional times. German health minister Jens Spahn said in April 2020 in the German Bundestag – quote – that in a few months we will probably have to forgive each other a lot. I think this is a very important statement, which is of course still valid today, because together the various policy leaders have had to make decisions over the past two years that have had a major impact on people, on jobs and businesses in that country. Many of these decisions have been taken together in Parliament by government groups and opposition parties, and I would also like to thank them once again today. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Have we made only right decisions in these difficult times? – You probably don't have to admit that openly. But what we certainly know today is that those who have always known everything better afterwards are 100 percent wrong. They often act like those who criticize the fire brigade for the water damage after the fire has been extinguished. There was no blueprint for Corona that could have been used, and yes, for us in the Federal Government and for all those responsible at this time – for all of us – this pandemic brought learning effects. If you listen to individual comments at the moment, you realize that this may not always be a matter of course for everyone, because not only some political parties, but also all those who are still impoverishing the virus and who are talking about vaccination should perhaps remember the reports from Italy, the pictures we saw at the time, the decisions about life and death that doctors had to make there. As tragic as every and every single covid death was here in Austria, the health system was never overshadowed in this way in Austria – and to prevent a collapse of our health system that was, is and remains in every pandemic the highest premise, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In order to ensure this, hard cuts and decisions were necessary, and we as the Federal Government have made these decisions, we have not pressed ourselves ahead of responsibility. I believe that is exactly what the citizens of each country can rightly expect from politics in a century crisis. In the history of the Second Republic, there has never been such a dense network of federal, regional and municipal aid as in this difficult time. In the past there has been criticism of the state, federalism, administration, the funding system. Austria, however, has, among other things, brought much better through this crisis than it has been in other countries. Without the initiatives of countries and communities, without the commitment of mayors, it would not have been possible to help as quickly and effectively as possible and to implement the construction and operation of test and vaccination roads. Without this federal structure, we would never have done so much in such a short time. I hope that the lump-sum critics of federalism will remember what this has done at this difficult time, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] At this point I would like to expressly thank all those who have helped, all the staff in the department, in the Parliament, in the various administrative units: Thank you for your commitment to Austria during this difficult time, you have helped people at this time more than many would have thought possible. – Thanks again! [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report and for his excellent report.]] The Federal Government alone has created more than 200 aid measures, and since the Marshall Plan there has been no larger aid package in Austria. To date, the federal government has paid more than 40 billion euros or legally committed it. This enabled up to 350 000 jobs to be saved in 2020. At the height of the crisis, about 1.2 million jobs were secured by short work alone. The many companies that have benefited from the other measures are also explicitly mentioned in this respect. Nearly 790 million euros have been retrieved from the municipalities for municipal investment packages. This package was undoubtedly unique in the history of the Second Republic. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] These state support is also the basis for the economic upturn we are currently experiencing. The Wifo Institute of Economic Research predicts an increase of 4.4 percent this year – remembering that in March it was still 1.5 percent – and this is another evidence that the measures have gone in the right direction. There is also very good growth prospects for the coming year with 4.8 percent. This historic aid package has also brought a new dimension to the budget. The revenue of the general state fell by 5.4 percent in 2020, and in 2021 we expect a strong catch-up effect and thus an increase of 6.9 percent. In return, expenditure has grown by 12.1 percent last year, this year they will increase by another 2.5 percent. According to the federal record deficit of 22,5 billion euros last year, depending on the pandemic history, we expect a similar deficit, and this also has, of course, an impact on the government debt ratio. The current spring budget was still expected to rise to 89.6 percent due to the Covid crisis. As a result of this record debt, comparisons with Bruno Kreisky and his policy – which also cost a lot of money – have always been drawn in some interviews, comments and newspaper reports. [[Call at the SPÖ: Who?]] There was, however, a substantial factual difference in budget and debt policy, because at the time when the famous saying has fallen, that a few billion more debts make him less sleepless nights than a few hundred thousand unemployed, economic growth in Austria was plus 5.4 percent, and between 1976 and 1980 there was an average growth of more than 3% per year. For comparison: In 2020, the Austrian economy fell by minus 6.7 percent. Therefore, in economically difficult times, I say to make debt to help, it is legitimate to make permanent debt in growth phases is convenience to taxpayers, and that is certainly not our way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Therefore, unlike perhaps governments in other countries, we will not pretend that we have no budgetary responsibility for the next generation, and therefore we will draw our lessons from the crisis. One of these lessons is that a sustainable budget policy and the path of consistent debt reduction are the best safeguard for future crises. The consistently falling debt ratio among German Chancellors Kurz was not a self-interest, it is necessary to create scope for the challenges of the future. Our sustainable budget policy in recent years has not only enabled the necessary aid packages, it is also an essential reason why Austria is still financing itself on very, very favourable terms in the financial markets. Even in the crisis year 2020, the effective interest rate of our newly imposed ten-year government bonds was on average minus 0.177 percent. At present, we are expected to pay 3.6 billion euros for the debts of the federal government, and ten years ago it was still 7.1 billion euros. What happens, however, when interest increases sometime, for example, because the central bank sees it necessary to increase interest rates in order to fight the risk of higher inflation? An interest rate increase of 0.5 percent would increase the cost of our debt by 120 million euros already next year, and if the consequences of an interest rate increase are already so significant for Austria, what about states – Italy, France or Spain – that have a much higher debt than Austria? A medium-term reduction in the debt ratio is important, not because it is a principle, not so that some so-called Frugal States in Europe prevail, but because of concern for the citizens and the prosperity in the countries and as a pretext for the next crisis, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Therefore, we will return to a sustainable budget policy in Austria after the crisis. Strong growth helps us, and we must do everything we can to make this upswing sustainable. We assume that the debt ratio will already be around 83 percent at the end of the year, and from 2022 to 2025 we have a gradual reduction in the debt ratio by just over 70 percent of GDP. From today's point of view, even a structural zero deficit is possible at the end of the 2025 financial framework, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not want to be misinterpreted here, because debt reduction is not equal to savings package. It means setting specific priorities instead of spending taxpayers' money with the casting can – and the eco-social tax reform is such a priority. We have jointly known in the Federal Government – precisely in the context of the biggest economic crisis since the Second World War – that we are launching the biggest transformation of the tax system in this Second Republic. We are thus pursuing four major objectives: to relieve first, working people; second, to set incentives for environmentally friendly behaviour; third, to strengthen Austria's location sustainably; and fourth, to phase out Austria's debt ratio step by step after crisis. That was Sebastian Kurz's promise, and we will implement it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] First of all, discharge of working people: Taking into account the first level of income tax, which had already been reduced in 2020, in the full expansion of the tax reform, we relieve citizens of more than EUR 6 billion annually. This accounts for two thirds of the annual relief for working people and those who have worked for their lives and are now in retirement. This is the largest discharge package in the history of the Second Republic, because there has never been so much more to live for the people of our country in a tax reform at the end. The measures in detail: The reduction of the second income tax level from 35 to 30 percent from July 2022 brings taxpayers up to 650 euros of discharge per year. The reduction of the third income tax level from 42 to 40 percent from July 2023 brings relief of up to 580 euros per year. A reduction in health insurance contributions for low and medium incomes is expected to start with 1.7 percentage points from July 2022. In particular, low-income people benefit from this. In addition, the increase in the family bonus is from 1 500 to 2 000 euros: This brings up to 500 euros per child and year, and the increase in the amount of children is also reflected in 450 euros. In addition, there is an employee participation model that can bring up to EUR 3 000 tax-free for employees. This makes the Austrians more alive, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The second point: Environmentally friendly behaviour will be even more rewarding in the future. Therefore, we will introduce CO2 pricing for the first time in 2022. In the first year, the tonne of CO2 will cost around 30 euros, which will rise to 55 euros by 2025, and from 2026 the Austrian system will be transferred to a certificate trade. This is a significant intervention into the lives of the Austrians. So we will only create the ecological turnaround in this country with the citizens, not over their heads, only with bans, burdens and restrictions. It needs incentives for those who can change, and not punishment for those who have no alternative. We have to take into account the actual circumstances of the lives of people, because it is clear who has the privilege of living right in front of a subway station that climate protection is of course easier to be than a donor in the country or those who depend on the car. That is why we will, of course, help those who need the car, and that is why there is a climate bonus with a regional seasoning. The worse, among other things, the more public transport links, the more money there will be in stages from 100 to 200 euros. With this, ladies and gentlemen, we create positive incentives for environmentally friendly behaviour in the future. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The third essential objective of this eco-social tax reform is to strengthen the location. We want to make the current upswing sustainable in order to secure jobs and prosperity in Austria. Therefore, we are also conscious of measures to stimulate the economy and to remove ourselves in European competition. In other countries much is discussed about the contradiction between ecology and economy. We unite both and provide incentives for investment and jobs in Austria. Our actions in detail: Companies will be taxed permanently from 25 to 23 percent by means of a reduction in corporate tax. There will be an investment-free amount including an ecologisation component of up to 350 million euros. Tax relief for own-power generation up to 60 million euros will also be available, as will the increase in the profit-free amount from 13 to 15 percent, in order to allow for a legal-form-neutral relief for companies. The low-valued economic goods can be depreciated up to 1 000 euros. We will also take measures to avoid excessive CO2 pricing for companies which are particularly competitive. That is why there will be a carbon leakage scheme and also a hardness reduction scheme with a corresponding refund. In addition, the refund for the additional burden on agriculture so that it can continue to produce permanently, because we are all proud of the products of our domestic agriculture and want to be able to enjoy them in the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] According to an initial analysis by Eco Austria, with the tax reform in final expansion, we increase gross domestic product by 1 percent and 4 billion euros per year. The total number of employees increases by more than 30 000 people. And: Despite all these measures, we will reduce the debt ratio by 70 percent at the end of the financial framework. This will also make us well equipped for coming challenges, whatever they may be, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] With this budget and with the first steps of the eco-social tax reform, we are starting the major restructuring of our tax system. The environment, location and society benefit from our measures, and above all the hard-working Austrians remain more of their hard-working money. I am convinced that this will be an example for many countries in Europe. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The eco-social tax reform is, of course, the big project, and this is reflected in this budget. At the same time, however, we give the department scope to set specific priorities. I can briefly explain this on a number of examples from the resorts. On UG 14, the German army: This will receive more money in the next federal financial framework by EUR 206 million. This will also provide for further procurement for the Covid storage and mass testing with an amount of EUR 20 million for 2022. Not only Corona, but the floods in the summer as well as the terrorist attack last year have shown us how much we depend on the aid of the federal army. That is why the terrorist package and the disaster package will continue with EUR 25 million in 2025. With an additional EUR 25 million per year, Austria will be able to make an appropriate contribution to the European Union's enhanced activities to prevent conflict, to consolidate peace and to strengthen international security under the European Peace Facility by 2025. To UG 12, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Crisis relief and control are important not only in Austria. That is why we have increased the budget of the foreign sector by almost EUR 20 million in the next financial framework. This will increase our contribution to refugee aid among other things. In addition, we set aside funds to speed up the processing of applications for citizenship by Holocaust survivors and descendants of Nazi victims. To UG 10, Federal Chancellery: In order to ensure an active Jewish community life in Austria, we will pay 16 million euros within the framework of the budget for the Federal Chancellery in the coming years. Overall, we increase the funding of the BKA for 2022 compared with the last financial framework by 18.5 percent. Of these, 55.4 million euros are for the expansion of German courses in the Austrian Integration Fund alone. In order to prevent violence against women, we will also spend 22 million euros in the next federal financial framework. To UG 11, safety and home: For the protection of women from violence – in particular for protection against violence within the family – an increase of 10 million euros will also be made in the safety resort. Overall, we increase the budget of the interior region by 236.4 million euros over the next federal financial framework. Among other things, the budget for the anti-terrorism package will be increased by EUR 120 million, of which half is planned for next year. The equipment and equipment of the police are thus modernized and adapted to new threat scenarios. To UG 13, Justice: We will increase resources in the field of justice to implement the terrorist package. With a budget increase of a total of 172.1 million euros in the next federal financial framework, the resort will provide, among other things, additional resources for the fight against terrorism from 2022 to 2025. In addition, this breakdown will also provide at least EUR 20 million for better protection of violence for women by 2025. On UG 25, family and youth: In line with the above-mentioned focus, part of the violence package will also be implemented in the UG Family and Youth. The budget for family and child protection centres will be increased by 23 percent from 2022 onwards. UG 24 and UG 21, Health, Social, Care and Consumer Protection: In the field of care, which is currently under great pressure, we will spend EUR 3.7 billion in 2022. In addition, 50 million euros are planned for nursing training in the years 2022 to 2024. The health sector budget, UG 24, will be increased by EUR 6 billion in the next financial framework. Payments of EUR 3.2 billion will be planned for next year. In addition to the reduced provision for the control and prevention of pandemics and the financing of covid-19 vaccines, the reimbursement of the reduction in health insurance contributions from 2022 has already been budgeted. To UG 30, Education: The education budget will exceed the 10 billion euro mark in 2022. This will continue, among other things, the offensive regarding the digitisation of teaching and also the development of psychological support for schools. Until the school year 2023/24, each student and every under-level student will be equipped with an electronic device. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] On UG 31, science and research: In the next federal financial framework, it will receive EUR 196.6 million more. Thus, we will continue the high-school development and provide an additional 347 beginners' places every year from the winter semester 2022/23. Research will be able to invest more money with an additional EUR 17 million in climate-related future areas, such as hydrogen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] UG 33 and UG 34, applied research: These climate and economic research and investment programmes are also supported accordingly. The budget in the UG 33 will be increased by EUR 72.5 million over the next federal financial framework, the UG 34 being EUR 291.5 million. In order to enable Austria to participate in Ipcei, hydrogen and microelectronic projects, a total of 250 million euros are available by 2026. For example, Austrian companies can participate in European projects and cooperation in important future areas. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] To UG 43, climate, environment and energy: In the course of the eco-social tax reform, the budget for climate change and environmental protection was increased by 5.9 billion euros by 2025. The most important contribution to this is the regional climate bonus, with which revenue is distributed directly to the people through the CO2 price. In addition, funding for clean heating and boiler exchange and for thermal renovation will be increased by a total of 320 million euros. By 2025, 24 million euros will be made available for the promotion of district heating and cooling. In the period 2022 to 2025, 100 million euros are planned for the creation of energy-induced farms. To UG 41, Mobility: The UG 41 budget will be increased by EUR 668.4 million over the entire financial framework period. Among them, additional €430 million will be made available for regional climate tickets by 2025. Promotion programmes for emission-free buses and infrastructure will be launched with an additional EUR 204 million. The financing of the ÖBB Framework Plan is an essential contribution to the future. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] On UG 42, agriculture, regions and tourism: In the field of agriculture and forestry, we will also provide 16 million euros for protection against natural hazards. Overall, we increase the budget of the breakdown of agriculture, regions and tourism by EUR 554.9 million in the next framework. Among them, a total of 350 million euros by 2024 will be made available to address the complex challenges in the forestry sector, such as climate adaptation or the borch beetle infestation. A further EUR 624 million will be estimated for broadband development by 2025 to achieve the development objectives. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] On UG 40, Economy: The budget of the economic unit will be increased by EUR 924.5 million by 2025. This will provide an additional 42.3 million euros for additional digitalisation measures in the years 2022 to 2025. In addition, an additional 10 million euros are available annually for IT projects 2022 and 2023. Finally, on UG 32 and UG 17, art, culture, public service and sport: Finally, I am delighted to mention that we are increasing the budget for art and culture over the next federal financial framework by 90,1 million euros. This ensures the funds for the general renovation of the Festspielhäuser Salzburg and Bregenz and also guarantees additional funds for the children's opera of the Vienna State Opera. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Sports promotion will also be increased by a total of 51 million euros between 2023 and 2025. In addition, the NPO Fund will provide an additional EUR 250 million for 2022. Ladies and gentlemen! This budget, which we present to you today, is an announcement for the future for recovery, stability and sustainability for Austria. Thank you. [[Prolonged condolences with ÖVP and greens.]] [[10:39]] [[10:39:35]] 2. Point report of the Committee on Budgets on the financial statements for 2020 (III-321/1062 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e3484	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e3511	After this PR presentation, perhaps some nude figures and information, if you, Mr President, allow me to say a sentence on the budget presented: Yes, the budget is a policy cast in figures. Bad news for all workers, for all employees, for small self-employed, for pensioners and for pensioners [[Call the ÖVP:... not exactly read!]] The tax reduction is paid by the so-called cold progression itself. [[Abg. Hanger: That's not true at all!]] However, they not only pay for this tax reduction themselves, but they also pay a gift to billionaires and corporations because they pay less taxes in the future and they also pay for this tax reduction. And also a bad news for the climate: The contribution of this budget to combating the climate crisis is maximum in homeopathic doses. Whether this can be measured at all will be seen in the course of the budget process. First of all, it is necessary to recall the contribution of the three opposition parties who saved the budget at the time. What Finance Minister Blümel presented at the time was unconstitutional. Through the work of the NEOS, the Free and Social Democrats, we were able to convince the Minister of Finance at the end of the day that the Constitution also applies to him, and he presented a budget which was also constitutional. It must not be forgotten what our contribution was – and I am not yet talking about the missing six zeros, but only about the fact that it was constitutional at all. Perhaps two more short sentences on the federal accounts: One thing is, it's just completely opaque. This not only says the opposition, but also the Court of Auditors says that. The Court of Auditors says that this budget is actually not comparable to the other years, because the changes in the budget structure in the last year, the year 2020, cannot be compared to the years before. The biggest problem is that the Cofag, that is, the entire crisis aid of more than EUR 15 billion, cannot be controlled by Parliament. The government has deliberately chosen an instrument by which Parliament and the public cannot control economic aid. We can't check exactly who got how much money, and we're talking about amounts of 15 billion euros. This is more money than we spend in the year for education, for universities, for anything else, and as Parliament we cannot see what really happened. This is an invoice of the transparency. The next thing you can find out because figures are facts is: In short, blossoms, and as they are all called, have always claimed that they lower taxes in Austria especially for those who go to work. Taxation is measured by the tax and tax rate, and what do we see, since recently, is Chancellor, and it has not been better with Finance Minister Blümel? – The tax and tax rate is higher than it was under Faymann/Mitterlehner, and higher than it was under Core/Middlelehner. That is, even if it is always claimed that taxes are reduced, the truth is another. The tax and tax rate after 2018 and 2019 was the third year in a row higher than that under Faymann/Mitterlehner and under Kern/Mitterlehner – that is the truth. That is, if the ÖVP tells you that it reduces taxes, it only means taxes for corporations and billionaires, but not for employees, not for small self-employed, not for small companies, not for pensioners. Figures do not lie [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] This group has paid more taxes under short and under bloom than before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e3564	Member of the Upper Nosterer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e3585	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV screens! We have just heard our Minister of Finance's speech on the budget and – who has been careful – all the details that are shown in this budget. Anyone who deals with budgets – I do that regularly as an economic operator – has to say: This budget points to the future, Minister of Finance, this budget gives stability to this state – our state – and this budget will have to imitate us in this stability and future orientation, as you have said, many other countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] It is not managed, but it is designed in the future. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We now have the agenda item on financial statements for 2020. Tomorrow at the first reading, we will deal with many, many speeches with the budget in depth, but nevertheless a sentence on it because I do not want to leave what Mr Krainer said: This tax reform now relieves billionaires and the large industry. So I'm just saying two numbers: 18 billion euros make up this discharge package, and 750 million Euro goes into Köst with regard to exactly this target group, as you have just said, Mr Krainer. However, we are already used to the fact that this speaker's voice is simply distorted by figures and facts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sir.]] The Austrians, the working people, have been relieved with this eco-social tax package. Each Austrian knows for himself how much he stays in the account at the end of the month. – These are the facts and not fairy tales. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Let us go back to our agenda item Auditing 2020! As someone else who always has to do with budget, I have to say: It's not nice to finish a budget in which more than 22 billion euros are inside. But we also need to know why: We know that there was the Corona crisis and that government has said that it will do everything it can to overcome this crisis for the workers and for the employer, so that we get back into normal economic life very quickly – and the facts show it. Again and again I have said to this speaker about who was capable of paying until the outbreak of the corona crisis, it is still today, and these aids have been built up so that they are still today. If we know that in Germany the experts want to push down the forecasts for the economic upturn and those of us in Austria more up, then we also know that this government has done the right thing with this Finance Minister in total, although there and there little mistakes have happened. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The packages for short work, the packages for the economy and culture: It all cost a lot, a lot of money. As I said, the Finance Minister himself has put the facts and figures on the table – I do not want to repeat that. Now to the criticism: Of course, there is always criticism of a budget, especially of the opposition – that would otherwise not be normal, and that is also good – and also of the Court of Auditors. We have been to the President with the budget speakers of the individual political groups, and what really was the criticism? – There have been two criticisms, but they are fundamental to be discouraged. This concerns, on the one hand, the authorization that the Minister of Finance had in this corona crisis. Why did it need this empowerment? – So that you can handle the help quickly. Do you know what the German Minister of Finance – SPDler – said because we did this on the Cofag? – There the Austrians failed than we did, and that also went much faster! – I say if the German partner says so, it will probably have its worth. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] On the other hand, it concerns control in the Cofag. You know exactly that control there is actually given to 100 percent. There are also all the social partners inside. I don't understand why you didn't get in from the opposition party until today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] Do you even know - - – listen to me, I listen to you too! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Do you know how many applications have been processed in the Cofag? – Over a million applications have been processed there! And then, from the opposition, explain to me how we could handle over a million applications here! There was no money for entrepreneurs and employees to date. That was true, and we would do it again in the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Tomorrow, as has been said, we will deal in detail with the eco-social tax package. Mr Finanzminister, I would like to congratulate this budget speech on its content. This budget has just been shown. It is responsible, and Austria has arrived with this eco-social tax reform in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e3708	Member of the Fuchs has been reported to speak. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e3730	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Dear colleague Obernosterer, I actually didn't want to talk about the Cofag at all, but as opposition parties, we have already x times explained why it doesn't make sense to go to this black box. You and the ÖVP did not understand it, and it makes no sense to provide further arguments because the arguments always remain the same. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Federal Government has torn a large hole into the state budget through its corona policy. This federal government has massively damaged the economy due to the non-evidence-based lockdown phases. Therefore, it is no wonder that the budget deficit in 2020 amounts to EUR 22.5 billion. Austria was in the Maastricht deficit in 2020 in the top third of the worst 27 EU Member States. The figures and facts show: Austria did not get through the crisis well, nor did Austria get through the crisis better than other EU Member States. Thank God the economy is now going better, but not because of this federal government, but despite this federal government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Let us come to the so-called large tax relief: The Wifo has already noted last week that the tax relief announced by the Federal Government large and surprisingly will not have an impact on the economy by the end of 2022 – no impact on the economy! In addition, it is not the largest tax relief in the Second Republic, but the largest mogel pack in the Second Republic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hear: Hello!]] This forward-looking tax relief is paid by the Austrians themselves – Mr Krainer has already mentioned it. It is not an eco-social tax reform, it is an eco-social tax reform. The mass of forward-looking tax relief is financed by the cold progression of the past, but also by the future and by the new CO2 tax, which is nothing but a mineral oil tax increase, under the cover of climate protection. This tax reform in the full expansion phase – in the full expansion phase!, and we only reach 2025 – brings us a gross tax relief of 7.8 billion euros. And that's only half the truth! This gross tax relief is still to be deducted from the cold progression and all the tax measures that will be applied to us in the coming years. In view of the current record inflation of 3.2 percent – by the way the highest value since December 2011 – the cold progression re-emerges the mass of the forward-looking tax relief. This is also confirmed by the Wifo on 8.10.2021 in its press release, according to which – I quote – “the current tax reduction is only a charge of past cold progression.” In other words, the people are now given back in a random way what they are taking away in the past, but also in the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the “ZIB 2” interview on 3.10.2021, the old chancellor promised that the cold progression will be abolished at the end of this legislative period. Maybe that's soon, but I miss the belief that the old chancellor will live up to this promise. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kickl]] I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As has already been said, we naturally have to deduct the future burden from gross tax relief. If you have listened carefully to Mrs. Bundesminister Geessler in the presentation of the tax reform, you know exactly what the burden will be on us: in addition to the increase in mineral oil tax, that is, the CO2 tax, the ecologisation – a beautiful word for abolition – of the shuttle fee, the ecologicalization – that is, the abolition of service car privilege, the abolition of diesel privilege, and other measures against tank tourism. However, we may increase the first part of the eco-social tax reform by EUR 510 million with a massive increase in standard consumption by EUR 510 million – by EUR 510 million! – Don’t forget until 2025, that was the first taste of future eco-punity taxes. This nova increase – we have often discussed it here – concerns in particular motor vehicles purchased by small businesses and by families. These small businesses and families were and are the first victims of this eco-social tax reform, and all drivers, especially the counterparts, but also small businesses, will be the next victims of this eco-social tax reform. However, we are also facing a massive increase in energy prices, local taxes and the ORF fee. This too has to be deducted from gross tax relief at the end of the day, because taxpayers are not interested in whom they pay the taxes, but in what is left in the wallet, and this will be quite bad in the near future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, many low-income families will no longer be able to afford heating this winter, and neither the Federal Government nor the City of Vienna will help these families – a game of mourning. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If this is such a great tax reform, I wonder why the first discharge steps will only enter into force on 1.7.2022, i.e. in nine months, and not already on 1.1.2022, because this would help people, but not with a tax relief after the winter. Furthermore, an underage entry into force for wage calculators and tax advisors, but also for financial management, which is also the case, is an administrative and bureaucratic super-GAU. Each reasonable-thinking legislative allows a tax reform, in particular a collective reform, to enter into force at the 1.1st of a year, but never underage. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Loacker: The Minister of Finance cannot know that!]] I didn't really want to talk about it, but the following surprises me a lot: The accusation of advertising corruption is in the room, the BMF should also be involved, and what do you see when you browse the newspapers or surf the homepages? – The Minister of Finance shall apply for a tax reform, which shall enter into force on 1 July 2022 and whose full expansion phase is to be achieved in 2025. [[Keeping the expression of a newspaper article in height]] We all do not know whether the announced steps are finally cast in the form of law. Who knows how long this federal government is going to last now? The Minister of Finance considers it necessary to apply, which will enter into force in nine months and most of which may never enter into force. [[Abg. It's inconceivable.]] I wonder – this question also raises “the standard” – whether this is information or marketing. Of course, marketing is not permitted. What is, do you think, but the first thing you see when you click on the link in the listing? – It is the most important of this tax reform: a photo of our Minister of Finance. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] Try Let's get this out of here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Deimek:... Prison!]] I would be interested in the costs. That would actually cost you to save. It would be money that could really be given to the low-earners, to the small pensioners, so that they can overwinter safely. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rössler.]] Maybe a word about it because it says here: "The greatest discharge in the 2nd century. Republic! ” and “The Standard” asks: “Information or marketing?” – I would rather say: That's not information or marketing, it's a disinformation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is the largest mogel pack in the Second Republic. We know that according to the presentation papers of the Minister of Finance, 2025 – in the full expansion phase of the tax reform – there should be EUR 7.8 billion a year. Mr. Finanzminister, I can remind you that the then blue-black federal government on 1st September. In May 2019, a Council of Ministers presented a proposal signed by the old chancellor and other persons, and this tax reform provided for a discharge of 8.3 billion euros per year, which was half a billion more per year. I know why the BMF's presentation films lacked that tax reform, the Finance Ministers Löger and I negotiated in 2019: because you know exactly that your is not the biggest tax reform, but the biggest mogel pack of all time. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Deimek: I'm sorry!]] [[11:03]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e3998	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled, it is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Member of the European Parliament is entitled to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e4028	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the Federal Accounting Board, which is here for the debate – TOP 2, – is primarily expressing the full weight of the Corona crisis. On the one hand, the economic downturn has reduced tax revenue, and on the other hand, economic aid, short-time work and support for art and culture as well as sport have raised expenditure. In 2020, this was down in a big minus of 22 billion euros. However, when we get out of the crisis, it is now apparent that we are getting out of the crisis more quickly than expected, and this certainly has to do with the fact that these aid measures were relatively striking and, above all, as grants. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The Court of Auditors – the President of the European Parliament was there before – has also noted that, immediately after the pandemic fight, a sustainable, long-term budget with, among other things, forward-looking reforms and consistent measures to achieve the climate objectives, which are intended at the same time to exploit growth potential, will be transferred. It is precisely these challenges and recommendations that the 2022 budget estimate is taking up, and it should lead us to a future budget from a crisis budget. This has been done by the Minister for Finance, and I think it has been very successful. The central element of this budget, the eco-social tax reform with a historically unique total volume of 18.6 billion euros, is that all people in Austria, especially those with small and medium incomes, remain more net of gross. On the other hand, it creates a tax-structural reform, i.e. by introducing a new element in CO2 pricing, that climate-damaging technologies and climate-damaging behaviour receive a price, while at the same time reducing the euro in the form of a climate bonus directly to citizens. Conversely considered: Everyone and everyone gets a climate bonus of at least 100 euros, and the more climate-friendly one behaves, the more it remains at the end of the year. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sir.]] This means that there is no turning on small screws, but a new gear is being installed into the machine, and that means that the climate and future generations are now part of the bill. Why is this gear so important? – As a generation, we have the historic mission to create the transition to this new climate-neutral age, and this requires great effort. On the one hand, this requires the creation of the basis for this climate-neutral age, the creation of foundations, which are climate-friendly technologies and infrastructures. This must be achieved through public and private investment. On the other hand, it is necessary to transfer the entire economy and households into the use of these technologies and infrastructures, and this requires positive and negative incentives. The budget, expressed by the budget estimate available for 2022, includes both: massive investments in the future foundations and at the same time the steering towards the use of these new foundations. On the one hand, there is massive investment in the development of climate-friendly industries, as there are important technological changes that are necessary. In the area of the buildings, apartments, houses that will become air conditioner, there is a massive increase of renovations, the possibilities for heating boiler exchange. This also, of course, concerns the development of public transport, i.e. free of emissions from public transport. The second part is the shift towards the use of these technologies, and from my point of view there are two key elements in this budget, which are very clear: One is, of course, the CO2 price which causes one to get away from technologies that emit CO2. The other is support, support, which can also be found in this budget and which is particularly expressed in the climate ticket. By 2025, 1 billion euros will be set for this purpose, which will make public transport more favourable and the changeover to it. To sum up, then, it is what the Court of Auditors recommends in the federal accounts, namely the transition to a budget that is very much geared towards the future. We will have the opportunity to discuss it tomorrow. I would like to say a final sentence to Mr Fuchs, who meant what the cold progression ate, will now be returned to the people: The reform has a total volume of 18.6 billion euros. I don't know if we both agree on how to define Zizerl, but maybe we should look at it together again. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e4106	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e4127	Mr President. Estimated President of the Court of Auditors! Decent members of the Federal Government! We are discussing the federal accounts as presented by the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors, and at the same time we are looking forward to the next year with the budget speech of the Minister of Finance. My group has for years been criticizing the lack of the future capacity of the budget. Last year, budget speaker Karin Doppelbauer said: The budget lacks smart investment, reasonable discharges as well as transparency and control. There are no future strategies and innovative approaches, as we can in ten years still manage to live in a wealthy country. – When we look at the Court of Auditors’ recommendations, we see that it is precisely about: It is about efficiency in the administration, about forward-looking reforms in the sense of generation justice, about finally making long-term thought a single-capable policy to make transparency in the budgets and concrete measures to achieve the climate objectives. And you say: Upswing, stability and sustainability! So upsurge out of the hole you've maneuvered us down to, because in a few countries the recession was as strong as with us – because you've done this badly. I find stability to be a bold statement from this chaos government, as we have seen in recent weeks. I do not think that foreign countries, which now supposedly look at this budget, have stability as their first thoughts when it looks at Austria. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] And sustainability? – Yes, sustainability in the continuous debt letter! While you have read in your budget speech: “To make permanent debt in growth phases is to the convenience of the [...] taxpayers”. – I am right in this sentence, but what you are doing is precisely to make permanent debt further in a period of growth. In fact, both the Maastricht deficit and the general government deficit are continued – at varying levels but still – and 2025 is a “zero deficit possible”, you say – yes, possible, but not even planned. Once again, they rely on taxpayers, with their personal commitment, to rinsing so much tax money into the cash registers with their power of action, that it somehow goes out for you, and you thank the mayors in your speech, but not the taxpayers who allow you to distribute your gifts generously across different groups at all. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] One thing you have to do: They go here and tell of 20 million euros and 60 million euros there, can be commended for this and that, but do not speak with any single word about the largest items in the budget. 23 billion euros – more than a quarter – are raised in pensions. You don't mention that with a word. If you look into the federal accounts and sum up how the pension charges look up to 2050, you can see: There is a lack of EUR 1 310 billion – EUR 1 310 billion! – At the pensions – and you make a little millionic rolls there! Well, after 1.5 years of pandemic, actually the turquoise-green government would have to show that there is a restart that one has the courage to unleash the creativity and creativity of people once. But instead, they give alms, generous, benevolent, there will be – this also fits into an noble Federal chancellor: We'll give the subjects a little bit. But what it would need would be a comprehensive discharge with deregulation and debureaucratisation. If you look at the young people who want to work out something, want to have their own apartment, then you can see that this goal is moving in an ever-increasing distance, because, while minimal tax reliefs are coming, what remains in the pocket at the end of your own creative power is getting less and less. The discharge of the middle class is missing, and the cold progression must finally be abolished. Here you will never come down with easy screwing of individual control sets! More people are being pulled out of the bag. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This is actually a situation and not a policy. Where does the discharge of entrepreneurs remain? Where is the discharge of small and medium-sized enterprises? What they needed would be a reduction in additional labour costs. The companies also need the end of the cold progression, because they want it to be good for their employees, they want their employees to earn more, that their employees have more net of gross, because the employees still cost too much and earn too little. If you look at the files, you actually know what broke the turquoise system: The cold progression could have been gone if you had made core and middle-legged work. We would have had 1.2 billion euros for afternoon care so that the children are well cared for, more people could go to work – then they would also have more prosperity. But it was more about power in your future forget, because forget of the future and lose of power go hand in hand in hand in this turquoise system. Mr Fuchs has already mentioned it: They lower two rates of wage and income tax under age. So as it should be, no one in your own ministry probably knows, because the financial office cannot know in which month someone has earned how much. An income taxpayer would have to make a balance underage, and companies would have to transfer an annual wage bill for each employee at the end of June. As Minister of Finance, I can give you an important information: The tax year is always the calendar year. You cannot, therefore, lower an income tax rate under the age of the year! Now, President-in-Office of the Council, Kraker, has also agreed on consistent measures to achieve climate change targets. We're far away from that. With a CO2 price of 30 Euro you will not reach a steering effect. I am also annoyed by the interplay of federal and country. Building a targeted anti-Vienna system is also so ridiculous and politically transparent that you really need to get your way. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] A real ecologicalisation of the tax system would give environmental pollution a fair price and not a pseudo-price. On the other hand, it would relieve people, namely, in employment, in taxes. You don't have the courage to do that. The focus for you is on the loss of power and the loss of power. But what Austria needs now would be a restart to lift Austria's wings.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e4221	The honourable Member is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e4242	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We debate the federal accounts for 2020. The Court of Auditors is responsible for drawing up the accounts of the Federal Republic of Germany. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to thank the Court of Auditors very much. There was excellent, professional work. For anyone wishing to provide an overview of the financial situation of the Republic, especially at the federal level, the Federal Accounting Board is worth a look. There is also a summary for the quick reader. – A great thank you to the Court of Auditors for this professional work! [[I should like to thank the rapporteurs of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the ……]] If we look at the billing, then of course we must first and foremost look at the economic conditions. Of course, these were marked by the corona pandemic, no question at all: an economic downturn of minus 6.6 per cent, a 2 per cent decrease in employees, unemployment has increased significantly, and relative debt has increased to almost 84 per cent. – These are, of course, the bad news, and you can’t be happy about it when you’re dealing with financial issues. Now, however, the big but: It is very gratifying – and I would like to say this in full detail – that these bad figures are, of course, due to the incredible programmes that the Federal Government, together with Parliament, has set in motion. These were the short-time work, the fixed-cost grant, the revenue replacement, the fund for non-profit organizations, an own fund for artists, the municipal investment law and much more. That's what I want to keep clear: These programmes have worked! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] Once again, I would like to thank the Ministry of Finance very much. To set up these programmes in this speed was already extremely good work. The Minister of Finance himself has said that, of course, it is always possible to make things better in detail, but it is quite clear – this can also be proved by international studies, it can be proved by studies that have been carried out in the meantime: As Mr Finanzminister and the whole of the Federal Government, together with the Austrian Parliament, led through this crisis, it was excellent, I already want to hold on to it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] A look into the future: Although we are discussing the federal financial statements for 2020, most of the speakers have already been concerned about the future, because of course we are before the decision-making process for the new federal budget. I would like to hold on to one thing – and I would like a little more optimism in our Republic: We have full employment first of all! Since I've been dealing with political issues, they always say: People's employment is the most important thing! On the contrary, we already have a labour shortage in individual regions, which is also a problem, but first of all we have full employment in our Republic. I want to hold on to that. This also helps us in budgetary terms, not at all, because this, of course, also means higher revenue. The second reason for optimism is – and I find it incredibly remarkable – that: Within a very short time, we will be able to achieve relative indebtedness back to almost 70 percent, provided that economic growth remains. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] There is already an excellent financial policy, and I am also grateful to the Minister for Finance because he is one of the few finance ministers at European level who is now calling for this Stability Pact again. It was right and good to make these debts at the time of the crisis, but everyone, I think, who has financial sense knows that we also have to take this back accordingly. A characteristic that I also find very remarkable is the interest rate – as we are currently financing our public debt – which is still negative. Yes, this is true of some other European countries, but in a global comparison, it shows that we have an incredibly strong economy, and we can be a little proud of that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as by Mr Maurer, Mr Rössler and Mr Jakob Schwarz.]] Two things I would like to make clear now: The claim that the discharge measures are financed by the cold progression is simply wrong. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, there's an effect through the cold progression, no question at all, but I'll hold on – and I'll look at the SPÖ in particular: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] Who would help abolish the cold progression? – This, of course, tends to help people with higher incomes. [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] – Well, that can be proved by every study. Everyone who's got a little bit of a house mind knows that. The former director of the Chamber of Workers, Mr. Muhm, has always resisted the abolition of cold progression because of the fact that it is more helpful to the upper levels of income. [[New calls at NEOS and Abg. Deimek.]] It is also clear that cold progression only finances part of the discharge measures. They are very strong. The reduction in the second and third levels of tariffs, the reduction in health insurance contributions, particularly for lower incomes, the increase in family bonus – these are measures that really help all Austrians, and this should be noted. With a Mar, which has circulated for two days, I would also like to clean up: The Federal Chancellor, out of service, almost prevented the extension of childcare facilities in Austria. - Please, let's look at the facts! EUR 1.6 billion has been spent. However, it is legitimate to negotiate this measure with the countries and with the municipalities, because they are the institutions involved. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] So, really, I have to clean up with this march. Of course, these investments have also been made in our Republic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I should like to mention the entry into climate policy. I also think that this is very, very correct personally, and that is, I think, very well negotiated with our coalition partner; also the regional bonus with which one creates a balance between the regions. In conclusion: We have every reason for optimism in this Republic, and I would like more of this.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e4374	Mr Stöger spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e4399	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! President of the Court of Auditors! Mr Hanger said in his speech that we have full employment. [[Abg. Hanger: Except in Vienna!]] – According to Mr. Johannes Kopf at the end of September, 338 514 people were reported unemployed in the AMS, and more than 120,000 people in Austria are long-term unemployed, those are people who have been unemployed for more than a year. [[Call to the ÖVP:... speech contribution!]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Hanger]] [[Call to the ÖVP:... speech contribution!]] [[Abg. Ovenauer: Where is the correction?]] That would have to be correct.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e4504	Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e4525	Mr President. Appreciate government representatives, government representatives! High house! At the beginning, perhaps to the again funny cabaret position – otherwise it can no longer be referred to – Mr Hanger, that it is wrong that the right to child care has been prevented: [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] First of all, you prevented this from happening yesterday, and secondly, we can read it all in the chats, Mr Hanger. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] It's a little difficult to make any dared statements, as the chats are really there. I'm going to the Federal Accounting Board: This shows us quite clear figures. Who pays the tax revenue in Austria? – 85 percent of taxes and taxes pay the working people, the pensioners, pensioners with taxes on work, on consumption, and only 15 percent are income from profits or income from assets. 15 percent versus 85 percent: This is already an incredibly large gap, and it should be further intensified – the Minister of Finance has explained – because the profits of large companies and corporations in this country are expected to be less taxed. These are billions that we are going to miss in the budget, and this cannot be the final end of wisdom in such a time of crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have already heard that the Köst reduction, i.e. the reduction in profit taxes, will relieve small businesses. That this is not true, I also want to prove with just one number: 65 percent of this huge sum flows to the top 1 percent of companies and corporations in this country. So those with the greatest profits are also most relieved again. I think it's a folk school kid who thinks it's not social. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say that this is not only social – it is not created by any single workplace – but also not ecologically. The government says that the best way to reward climate-friendly people is to make climate damage more expensive. - That's right. As a climate protection speaker, I like it if CO2 gets a price. But why does this always apply only to the working people? The companies simply get this Köst reduction – meated, there are no obligations in terms of climate protection – and they get hundreds of millions of euros a year just like that. Sure it's not fair, it's not ecological. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This leads to the fact that a group like the OMV, one of the largest CO2 issuers in this country, simply receives more than 13 million euros a year; hopes what this has to do with CO2 emissions. But I have a proposal to make how we can do this better, so that we can achieve a real steering effect, because it is about that. The CO2 prize should no longer bring revenue for the budget – if it is about it, please introduce millionaire taxes, Minister of Finance, but it is about the steering effect. People should switch to climate-friendly alternatives. I come from a rural region, and if the bus doesn't drive there, I can't change to him if there is no station in my community, then I can't change from the car to the train. That's the essential! Therefore, my proposal: Instead of giving these hundreds of millions of euros to the largest corporations and companies in this country, we should invest this money in public transport, in small municipalities. Let's see that we really make a climate-friendly life possible for everyone! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore make a request: [[Quoted print version removed]] So we would have a steering effect, so people could change. That would make sense. I invite colleagues from the Greens, whom I know they want to vote in the heart, but also the ÖVP colleagues warmly agree. Just one last sentence: The Vice-President of the Municipal Government, Johann Hingsamer, an ÖVP-College, has described this Köst-Seinkung as what it is: a gift to the industry. Many mayors are sitting here today: We do not provide the money, but we invest it in public transport! That would be social and ecological. That is what we expect from such a tax reform. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[11:29]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e4730	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Götze is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e4754	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I would like to come back to the subject: The topic is the federal accounts of the last year – thank you for the good work; as always, when the Court of Auditors checks. [[in the direction of President of the Court of Auditors Kraker]] What we're doing here is looking back at the finances of 2020, and we know that, unlike 2019, where there was a surplus, we could not record such a one last year: There have been more payouts and less revenue. But this is not surprising because we had to fight the corona crisis. There have therefore been economic aid, short-time work and much more, and fewer revenue. However, I would like to contradict Mr Fuchs – he is now in the hall – who said that the economic aid would not have been effective, because both the Wifo, the Austrian Institute for Economic Research and the SME Research Austria and the credit reform have been concerned with economic aid and found that, thanks to these economic aids, Austrian companies were liquidated, more affordable, and losses were reduced, thereby also reducing their insolvency, and 350 000 jobs were received by economic aid alone. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] In addition, the AMS estimates that 1.3 million jobs have been received through short work – that is the second rail: Short work has secured 1.3 million jobs. So we can sum up: The aid measures are effective, they have worked, and this is also seen in the economic upturn. Unemployment rates are falling. I wouldn't talk about full employment yet, but the numbers go back, And next year we are expecting unemployment figures at the pre-crisis level. They may still be too high, but it's the way in the right direction. Moreover, economic growth is also coming back, and that is why we see it for 2022 – we have already started to talk about the budget today – we will still be very busy: In the proposal, only 4 billion euros are planned for the crisis management fund – precautionally planned – so there are still small-scale business aid, non-profit organisations support funds, short-time work – of course very important also for communities – and health and education. For this purpose, money should be provided. Now is time to help in the sense of: What has got good and what has worked less well? to evaluate. The Court of Auditors will be given an important role, and the President has already announced an examination of the Cofag. Further: We have discussed several times in the Committee on Budgets that the support and acceptance of corporate liability should be examined in such a way that we want to assess them and also want to know what failures are to be expected in the Committee or as a National Council. In conclusion: It is now time – the Corona crisis we overcame more or less – to look after the next major topic, the climate crisis. So if we can see anything positive in the past crisis with all the suffering, it is that it has shown how capable we are to deal with crises quickly. We have learned that we can be very flexible, and in this sense I would like to make an appeal to all of us: From my point of view, economic growth is not so good, but it is only good if we invest in the right direction, and the right direction is digitization and ecologisation. That is exactly what we are doing with the eco-social tax reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e4814	Member of the Angerer Chamber has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e4836	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Mr Finanzminister! Estimated government members! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! A brief look back to 2019 with free government participation for the first time for 65 years shows a positive budgetary result at the federal level. We have started reforms – the aggregation of social security funds is an example – there has been a reduction in the taxation of low incomes, the reduction of social security contributions for those who do not pay taxes because they earn so little, a family bonus has been introduced. These were the measures taken by a black and blue government. When we look at the year 2020, we see that there was a minus of 22 billion euros under ÖVP green. Today, around 30 billion euros are added. The government debt ratio is now 90 percent, i.e. it has the future, which our children will have to rehabilitate. They have led us to a debt union at EU level, which is even excluded from the contract. In debt at EU level, EUR 750 billion, Prof. Taschner, were taken up for a so-called reconstruction fund. Austria is liable with around 13 billion euros. We get 3.5 billion euros from the pot, the Italians get 200 billion – so I wonder what it would be like for Austria to take such a step and allow a debt union. Austria experienced an economic downturn of 6.6 percent. We have greatly weakened the communities and the countries, and you are defending yourself to this day. To provide compensation. This was the policy of 2020, which is also responsible for these EIAs and the Greens in the government. How does the economic location look? - It doesn't look much better. We still have an overwhelming bureaucracy, we have maximum taxes on the labour factor, we have a shortage of skilled workers in Austria, while you still reject measures to do something about it, and now the government is sinking in the anti-corruption system. Which company in this world should, therefore, still consider opening a location in Austria under these conditions? This is the responsibility of this black and green government, so it has led our country into a dead end from which it will be difficult to get out of. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's look at the current situation! We have already pointed all year to the exploding prices of construction and raw materials, which there are price increases. We have a record inflation of over 3 percent. People are being severely burdened, and now the so-called eco-social tax reform is added. Mr Fuchs has already said: This tax reform is neither ecological nor social. In advance, you have already gone here and increased the NoVA massively, which, in turn, burdened every individual, from the small business operator to the families. And what is the so-called CO2 price, which you always put to the fore here, to bring to CO2 savings? Let's take a look at this: The Wifo has calculated that only in the field of new fuels, if appropriate bioethanol blends were used in conventional fuels, could up to 1.2 million tonnes be saved in the short term, and the 140 000 tonnes that one assumes in the NOVA would be reached in one year. These would have been useful measures without further burdening the Austrian population. It is basically a cold expropriation which is currently taking place, and now there is a massive, exploding price increase in the field of energy supply. The gas prices explode, the electricity price explodes, and all this is at the expense of the weaker ones in our society, at the expense of those who can only afford life today, who are already struggling to pay their rents. You will have these price increases. In view of the fact that Mr Schwarz had previously asked the Greens for a good deal, which means: So this ecological tax reform, as you call it, which you sell today with 18 billion euros, comes into force for the first time, if this government is still in existence at all – I bet yesterday that it is no longer available in the middle of next year – next year in the summer, and then – perhaps – there are the first discharges for the Austrians. Nothing will happen until then. So the 18 billion euros are coming, if at all, circaly – that is so, and these developments that I have now listed will lead to an energy poverty in this country. The next thing that's going to happen is that people can no longer raise their living costs, that people can no longer afford heating, that people can no longer afford the electricity in their homes. There should be something to do, because otherwise in some of the apartments in the truest sense of the word the cold will come in and the light will go out. That is why we are also proposing that this development be countered, because it is necessary to help these people. We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[11:40]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e5094	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Tashner has been reported to speak. The word stands with him. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e5118	Mr President. High house! The budget of 2020 was under the shadow of an actual epochal event, the Corona crisis. It is true that the international experts in economics, but also the experts here in our country, have said that it is impressive, with what determination, with what courage, but also with what sense of responsibility could be held back on a financial basis, so that Austria has also managed this crisis economically wonderfully. A lot of money was actually taken into hand, they say. 40 billion euros have been made available, paid out or promised. So now we've taken these 40 billion euros, i.e. we've made debts. Yes, there was a brilliant article a week ago in the “New Zurich Newspaper” by Michael Ferber, “Money from Nothing [...]”, the title, part of the title, was this article. “Money out of nowhere” – this depends that you can simply print money, print money as you do without cover, print money by saying: Yes, this is simply spent by the central bank, and that will be done, because we have a new theory, the Modern Monetary Theory; that is running, we can simply print money without having to think about the consequences! – Michael Ferber believes in this article that this may not be right. The full title of the article reads as follows: “Money out of nowhere – but it’s not free.” Somehow this has to be repaid, and somehow these debts have to be settled. Now I see essentially three ways to deal with this problem. It's a problem; it's not a challenge, it's really a problem. Whether we solve it, I don't know, but at least we'll be able to meet him – I think you have to talk a little more modestly. But how can we deal with this problem? The first method – and I fear it will be taken by some states – is: You don't do anything – in the hope that the Modern Monetary Theory will take hold. I fear that – even in the medium term – this may lead to serious misdemeanors, and it could be that we are experiencing monetary reforms. That would be terrifying. So this method should be treated in a repugnant manner. The second possible way would be to say: Well, then we have to make heavy savings! – It is then preached ascetics, and unfortunately it is necessary to reduce prosperity. Nor can we, and do we not want to afford to maintain social peace alone. That's not possible either, so it's just a third way. The third way, which remains – and I believe that we are going to take it here and that we will also find it with the budget that will be discussed tomorrow – is by promoting productivity. This means that more money than profit is in circulation. Profit is not an evil word, Mrs. Herr, profit is important, because profit also really enables us to reduce the debt. We are now more than 83 percent, and we will, if we actually get in with this economic growth, come down within a range of five to six years to the order of 70 percent. This is not yet what is required, but if we look at the other European countries, we are really good at it. So that's the method. How will we start this economic growth? – There is the possibility of saying that we will do so through state intervention by directing the state economy – Mr Angerer, for example, this request you have made, is already going in this direction. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Künsberg Sarre]] You have to make sure the state has to take care of it! – or we do it ordoliberally by saying that we create the state framework and make the economy really grow. We also, of course, take all these obstacles, which exist – as Mr Angerer is quite right, we are trying to reduce these barriers – so that the economy can grow. But that will really, I believe, be our goal, and I hope that with this objective we can go this third path, the third path that will then lead to the future. [[Abg. Loacker:... 30 years...!]] Mr Loacker, I think that could really lead us out of this crisis. We are always in the crisis, but we come out of this one crisis into the other, better crisis, and I look forward to it. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Loacker]] - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e5167	Members of the European Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e5188	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Mr Finanzminister! Members of the Federal Government! High house! At first, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors, as well as my previous speakers, for drawing up the federal accounts. As always, this has been done in high quality work – really appreciated by us, as always. I would just like to say why we still cannot agree to this. We are mainly concerned with three points: The first is that, in the last year, the taxpayers have finally been very transparently awarded. In the core, for example, 9 billion euros have been paid over the Cofag alone, completely without parliamentary control, and - I would also like to say that - without the entrepreneurs getting a notice, i.e. without legal certainty. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The second reason why we cannot agree is that the government refuses to evaluate the effectiveness of the taxpayers' money used. I think it would be nice if all, especially the members of the Federal Government, stood up and claimed that the funds had been so effective. We do not know, because there is no evaluation, and all the requests I have made for it are erased from the table. I find this really annoying. The third point is that the financial statements in Austria – and this is a novum – are presented by the President of the Court of Auditors. We don't like that. Internationally, the one responsible for the budget is also presenting the budget at the end of the year, and that is the Minister of Finance; we have mentioned this several times. This would also be the recommendation that has come from many experts. This has still not been implemented in Austria. As I said, coming from the economy, I find this really annoying, and I am very pleased if we may change it in the context of a budgetary correction or the new budget. Since we have heard a lot about the budget today – the Minister of Finance has given his budget speech – I would also like to comment on it and to speak: What really surprised me when I looked at the budget yesterday in the evening is that the Minister for Finance really adopted the consolidated budget path. If you look at the budget, you don't assume that it will be rebalanced until 2025. By the way, the Swiss are already doing this next year. So our first analysis after last night is anyway: Making debt at the expense of the next generations continues completely. The impulses for the boys are missing. For example, in the field of education or even in the area of child care, nothing has happened, at least it is not legible in this budget. The fact that the additional wage costs have not been attacked, that the middle class in particular suffers from these very high additional wage costs in Austria, nor will this change, nor can this be read in the budget, and that the middle class remains the milk cow of the nation, because the cold progression is not abolished, is also set out in it. But on the current occasion I would like to address two things that really make me angry. We have read in black and white in the last few days that the Pratorianers around Sebastian Kurz have really shot two projects in the 2017 election year. On the one hand, this was about the right to free childcare in the afternoon, with EUR 1.2 billion, a very important measure that we have called for since the beginning of NEOS. It didn't happen. Zum Second, Christian Kern and Reinhold Mitterlehner had already decided to abolish the cold progression so important. It didn't come either. I would like to explain again, because Mr Hanger - I do not know if he is still here - apparently did not fully understand what it is all about: The cold progression occurs if the taxation of income from work is not adapted to the loss of value due to inflation. If it is now claimed that this is only relevant to high incomes, then it is simply and simply wrong. I would like to give you an example: A person with a median income, 3 200 euros per month, approximately 45 000 euros per year, has been around 1 550 euros since 2016 the cold progression lost. That means they're gone. Now, although 1 100 euros will be paid back over the next three years, the cold progression continues funnyly because it has not been abolished. That you are here without saying that the cold progression has an incredible impact on the incomes of the people in Austria, I find almost scandalous. Now I come back to what really makes me angry: It was actually clear that this was happening. But it didn't happen. Why didn't it happen? – Because a turquoise circle has decided to want to take power, and it has not suited it. If you still don't believe this, ladies and gentlemen, who watch you here, please take yourself a picture: Read these 104 pages and pull your own conclusions! In any case, the result is that the cold progression has not been abolished even four years later and there is still no legal claim for free childcare in the afternoon. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[11:52]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e5358	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The President of the Court of Auditors is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e5382	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Today, on the one hand, Mr Bundesfinanzminister's budgetary speech, that is to say, the debate on the budgetary priorities of the future, and on the other hand, the federal accounts for the year 2020. The Court of Auditors shall be obliged, in accordance with the Federal Constitution, to submit annual accounts by the end of June of the following year. The Federal Accounting Accounting Office available to you is a comprehensive numbering work – with the actual figures, the results and the final figures, for the year 2020 – which is also the starting point for the coming years. On the one hand, it offers a review of the figures, the deficit, the re-indebtedness in 2020, on the other hand, the outcome of the 2020 financial year will naturally also have an impact on future budgets – for example, when we see that we had a new debt, a deficit of 8.9 percent in 2020. Of course, the federal accounts for 2020 must be seen in the light of the corona crisis management, which the Court of Auditors has done in this way. We have shown in this financial statement what assistance measures have been taken, for example through the crisis management fund, and we have also put in place auditing in connection with the Covid-19 crisis management fund. The Court of Auditors has always acknowledged that it is an hour to support in the crisis, but of course it is the role and task of the Court of Auditors to examine such aid packages systematically as well as in terms of content. This is a matter of transparency and control, and the Court of Auditors demands cost transparency in all areas of the state. I would like to focus briefly on the economic development and labour market situation of 2020. It was true that the foundations changed – GDP fell by 6.6 percent, unemployment increased by 9.9 percent – which is why the federal government put in place the following financial assistance measures: A total of EUR 31.8 billion was approved for Covid-19 measures, of which EUR 14.5 billion was disbursed, and EUR 6.4 billion was made less in the Federal budget. Of the EUR 10.4 billion, EUR 6.5 billion was disbursed from the Covid-19 enforcement framework, which was used up to almost two thirds. The crisis management fund, which amounted to EUR 28 billion, was the central instrument for making the financial resources available to the individual departments within the federal government. The resorts have reached 11.4 billion euros and 8.5 billion euros have been disbursed. The variable delivery of labour market services financed the corona short work of 5,5 billion euros. All measures were taken by individual social groups available to support. The net result in 2020 was a minus of 23.6 billion euros, which was a high negative value, but there was a surplus in 2019, a plus of around 0.8 billion euros. The net financial balance was minus EUR 22.5 billion, and for 93 percent of these, Covid-19 measures were responsible. This already negative net assets has increased by 25 billion euros to minus 175.4 billion euros. The state of the adjusted financial debt of the federal government amounted to 238 billion euros in 2020 and was thus 29.2 billion euros higher than 2019. Thus, the increase within a year – a plus of 14 percent – was as high as the previous eight years combined. Overall, Austria achieved a deficit of 8.9 percent of GDP in 2020, with debt rising to 83.9% of GDP through these measures. In the meantime, the government debt is still higher, and in the middle of the year, it was about 86.2 percent. The Court of Auditors has examined the Covid-19 crisis management fund. This was about its legal classification into the federal budget, about the flows of payments. 8.5 billion euros were paid out, half of them went to the Covid-19 financing agency of the federal government, to the Cofag. I have already said in the Committee on Budgets that the Court of Auditors, who can examine the Cofag, is carrying out an examination of what is already happening. The funds allocated through the Covid-19 crisis management fund could be tracked. At the same time, it is true that additional funds were also spent from the individual budgets, but not as the Court of Auditors wished. We have already noted in June that it is important for the future to act on a sustainable basis along the development of the corona pandemic, post-pandemic and also economic and economic development. We need a budgetary strategy that is sustainablely effective. This, of course, also includes, in recent years, the Court of Auditors, and we have also made individual audits on budgetary law as a whole, a transparent budgeting within the meaning of budgetary law and a further development of budgetary law itself. It has already been mentioned: This concerns, for example, the question of who makes the conclusion, but there are also other topics, such as in the field of reserves, et cetera. This must then be done, including a timely evaluation of the measures taken with a view to their effectiveness. It is about the sustainability of public finances in the future, about reforms in the sense of gender equality, in particular here I mention the care sector, also pensions have been addressed, and the education sector. Digitalisation should lead to the rethinking of administration and the implementation of it accordingly. And, of course, these are consistent measures to achieve the climate objectives. As has been said, the Court of Auditors assumes that long-term thinking is important for the Federal Government's sustainablely effective budgetary strategy, and we are also concerned with the targeted use of the funds of the European Building and Resilience Facility, which will also be important from the Court of Auditors' point of view. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e5446	Mr Baumgartner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e5473	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! President of the Court of Auditors! The President of the Court of Auditors has just said: The financial statements for 2020 were very much in line with the measures taken to combat the corona pandemic and its impact. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] In the financial year 2020, the deficit increased to EUR 22.48 billion and the government debt ratio to 83.9 percent. As a general rule, Austria achieved a deficit of 8.9 percent. In 2019 we had achieved a surplus, for the first time since 1954. Corona has unfortunately changed the signs. The pandemic and its direct impact on people and our economy had to be halted. This could be done quite well and well in a non-stop health and economic crisis. The government under the leadership of the ÖVP has proved that answers and solutions have been sought for people in the country. The necessary measures financed by the Covid crisis management fund amounted to EUR 8.5 billion. Tax reliefs led to less revenue of EUR 6.4 billion. EUR 5.5 billion in corona-short work aid has been paid. The Cofag – I would like to respond – is constantly criticized by the opposition. I really don't understand. The homepage is available for everyone, it is transparent, and there all support is published. Aid from EUR 100 000 will be added to the European transparency database and recorded there. The Cofag also fulfils the reporting obligations to the Federal Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry, in turn, transmits these reports to Parliament for control. Because Mr. Fuchs – he's not here now – said that the Cofag is practically a "black box": The Cofag is not a black box. There are social partners inside, that is not a black box, but there are also ÖGB and AK, also experts inside. I don't know what this is all about, why the Cofag is always criticized there. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We see that the Corona measures have taken: The economy recovers, the forecasts are positive, and the comeback for Austria will succeed. We must not endanger the upturn. The economic figures are encouraging, the unemployment rate is falling, and there is a record high in open spaces at the same time. With the budget presented by Minister of Finance Blümel, we are creating the basis for the urgent projects that are groundbreaking for the future of Austria. With the tax reform, we create a discharge that comes from people, the economy and the environment. It will show sustainable effects, strengthen the economic upturn and link our prosperity with sustainable climate protection – 18 billion euros in total; reduction in tariff levels in order to pay for work; discharge of families by increasing the family bonus to 2 000 euros per child and increasing the amount of children to 450 euros; strengthening the site by reducing the koest; Investment-free amount including ecologisation components; Climate bonus. Eco-social market economy and eco-social tax reform, continuity, stability, continued and forward-looking – only with the Austrian People's Party! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e5533	The next item is the speech by Mr Alois Stöger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e5554	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! High house! Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! On Sunday, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany apologised for the picture that politics is giving in Austria. [[Abg. Obernoster:... We are budget! Annual accounts!]] – We expect 2020, and that is why it is important. The image for which he has apologised has not given the entire policy, but the image for which he has apologised have to answer briefly and his turquoise-black circle of friends, not the politicians in the communities, in the country days, nor here in the National Council, because a majority, a very large majority of politicians here are not corrupt. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] They are committed to making people in this country better. That is exactly what I use for myself. I was a member of the government for nine years. I did not consciously participate in such power games, I did not deliberately commit taboos against the rule of law, and I did not sabotage my own government work in particular. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With me and most politicians in Austria, there is a focus on work, dialogue and consensus – and there is no need to apologise for that. I would like to say this, ladies and gentlemen, because it has also kept my colleagues of government with whom I have been in the government in a different way. What has happened here is a new quality of politics that replicates on Fakenev's, makes untruth the truth and thus prevents the democratic discourse in that country. Why do I say this when we talk about the 2020 budget? – Because these contents are inside this budget! This is about Mr Kurz getting money out of the budget he can use for press work. We say yes or no to this policy today, and we do that – including – with this budget. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It shows here black on white who has the cost of the pandemic to bear. If you look at the figures – thank you to the Court of Auditors – you have made this very clear: There, where workers have gotten something, this was essentially the short work and a little the increase in the child bonus. All other measures have been addressed to the companies, to which this has been paid. That is, the workers – I said, Professor – have had little of it. [[Abg. Tashner:... short work!]] I ask quite deliberately towards the sector of the ÖVP, and I also ask the Austrians: Have you ever paid corporate tax? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If you never pay corporate tax, you cannot benefit from a reduction in corporate tax. Even if I ask in the direction of ÖVP: I think most of you have never paid corporate tax, but you would now reduce it. – That can’t be it, and this shows that there has been a clear redistribution from bottom to top. [[Abg. Ottenschlager:... jobs!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I was quite surprised when I heard the budget speech today. The Federal Minister for Finance has not said a sentence on the chapter on work. He is talking about work and unemployment, but when it comes to how he has illustrated this in the relevant chapter, he is not saying anything because the funds are getting less there because he does nothing about it, because it has simply not been illustrated in this proposal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to the Greens: Don't be angry with me when I say you're going to glue the neoliberals like that, but right on the glue! It is not only the workers and employees who can pay for the climate crisis. Even if you tax CO2, that does not mean that CO2 does not come about. You need to take action. I support them all, we have to do something that CO2 no longer emerges. There is a need for a change in production processes, a need to strengthen public transport, because where the railway has already been electrified, less CO2 is produced. So that's where we have to make changes. If we are mobilising traffic for the working people – in the last week the spray prices have increased by 20 percent or 15 percent – although we have not done anything tax at all, I say: People can't afford that! It is also recognised that all the benefits we are now talking about in the course of the tax reform have been paid by the people of Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear Green, please don't put the Neoliberal on the glue! We need regulatory measures, a strengthening of public transport, more money for development – then we can protect the climate well. We will not agree to this federal accounts because the 1.2 billion euros – which Mr Kurz has prevented – are not included in them. Dear Austrians, you all noticed this in 2020, especially in the Corona crisis, namely, if you have had no place for your children, if you have to ask if the grandmother takes the child, if you can give it to the grandmother so that you can go to work. It is precisely these problems which you have experienced here that all these problems are shown in the budget, because short and co have prevented you from having appropriate training facilities in the municipalities. We shall vote on this today, and the SPÖ will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e5649	Next speaker: Mr Christoph Stark. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e5673	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, you are following this meeting today! Yes, Mr Stöger has shown well here that he has no idea of economics or of child care. Mr Stöger, what you said today about Köst was a sounding fig for thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, who are doing work and who are also paying Köst. You should think about that. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bernhard.]] Secondly, Child care has been and has been organized by the congregations for ages, including during the crisis. It would be nice if you just thank the communities that they did this perfectly in the most difficult conditions in the crisis, so it was possible. So this has nothing to do with the 1.2 billion euros in itself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, We are still talking about the federal accounts – what you, Mr Stöger, have beautifully mixed here – and this federal billing is a look back at the facsimile. The Court of Auditors notes that one and one are two. If you listen to the opposition, you think that one and one is zero or even less – and that is not so. Ladies and gentlemen! The billing drafts a clear picture of the time of our greatest crisis and directs the headlight to this time. Fact is also – and I know that you can only endure more difficult and not hear well –: We have come through this crisis well, ladies and gentlemen. We have come through this crisis well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is not just what we are saying, for example, by the international agency Bloomberg. Ladies and gentlemen, all those who say something else see the experts of Bloomberg of the Nackerpatzei. Is that your serious opinion? – We are in third place in Europe and fifth in the world, demonstrated by the figures given by the federal accounts. It speaks a very clear language. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have come through the crisis well – through a number of factors that have already been mentioned several times today: by short work, by various aids and others. A small story in this context: I was allowed to take a short trip to Italy a few days ago, and I spoke there with an entrepreneur who has a tourism company with about 50 employees in the Friuli area. Do you know what this company got from the state of Italy at this time? – This was once 7 000 euros and short-time work in 70 percent with a payout four months later. Please compare this with the services we have in Austria! I say quite clearly: There are a lot of people who have done a good job, and above all our Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let's go back to Austria – and I'm now talking about my home region: In the city and region of Gleisdorf, about 20,000 people live, and the labour market situation is now such: We have 600 unemployed people, which is about 3 per cent, and these are facing 1 022 open jobs. There's someone to say again, the economy is no longer working, everybody's going so badly! – The economy is coming up grand! I am grateful for the measures that have succeeded. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, a small view of the budget: Many facts have already been mentioned, but I would also like to add a fact. In the Corona crisis we, the population in Austria, had a good partner, and that was and is the Austrian federal army. Let us forget this once again when the ladies and gentlemen in Green are not present so often. I would like to congratulate Claudia Tanner at this point, because you too have managed to increase the budget for the third time in a row. In 2022, the budget of the Federal Army is EUR 2.7 billion, which is the third increase in a row. This, ladies and gentlemen, ensures one, namely stability in Austria – also through the Austrian Federal Army. I am looking forward to a tax reform that will bring us forward, and I congratulate once again all those who act.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e5766	Next speaker: Mrs Martina Künsberg Sarre. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e5788	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators! Yesterday, the EIA and the Greens submitted an application calling on the Minister of Education to implement the points of the government programme. I don't think you can remember how ridiculous you are. Last week, in the Committee on Education, you still delayed all the opposition requests, in particular those relating to basic education, on the grounds that everything is actually on the way and in implementation, that our applications are actually no longer needed at all. If I look at the federal accounts and look into the next year, I think that these applications of the opposition are very much needed. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We constantly hear from the Greens that through them in the government the issue of education gets a greater priority. We listen particularly to the greens, but today also to the new elementary education expert Hanger, how important an expansion in the field of elementary education is and that unfortunately, without the countries, unfortunately, nothing will go on. We hear from the Greens that a lot of money is being taken into their hands to expand the kindergarten area. And what is it? - Uh! When we look at the year 2022, we see: For the elementary education area, EUR 142.6 million is estimated, which is exactly the amount provided for in the 15a agreement, no more cents. Mr Hamann, you said in committee last week that we should be surprised and wait for the budget. We have done so, and we are also very surprised, but unfortunately not positive, because of course there is no mention of an increase at all. Finally, we must insist that it is obviously a success for the Greens if the amount remains the same – this is a success against the ÖVP or with the ÖVP. And let's hold on: The Greens simply do not do anything in education policy. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] Mr Pakolm said yesterday – she defended her former chancellor yesterday – that we should not always be against something, but for something. I would like to read something to you now, you can’t do it often enough: “1.2 billion for afternoon service with legal claim”, “mega explosive!”, “Not good!”!", “How can you stop that?” – That, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, has written her new clubman, among others. [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's a kilnauer.]] These sentences are evidence of arrogance, ignorance and a lack of sense of what people really need in this country. [[I would like to appeal to Mr Neos and Mr SPÖ, as well as to the members of the FPÖ.]] Of course it should have been: 1.2 billion for afternoon care and legal claims! Mega important! Great! How can we implement this together as soon as possible? - That's what it's supposed to be like! [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] The excerpts from the files are the white cock to all children, parents and all those who work in kindergartens or childcare facilities in the early childhood area, but also to all entrepreneurs who are looking for skilled workers. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Because it always says that without the countries in elementary education nothing goes at all: As we see, something happened when two modern, forward looking party observers agreed on it and did not make any future-forgotten policy, but politics for the next generations – and you both obviously do not. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] What would we have done with this additional EUR 1.2 billion for Austria? – We had already started years ago to ensure a comprehensive afternoon care in Austria, we would have had a care area for every child and family who would need it and take advantage of it, we would have managed that parents should no longer seek a kindergarten like bitters, we would have managed to have enough places and less closing days and that half of the facilities no longer close before 4 p.m. And maybe we could have managed that all mayors would rather open a third group of kindergartens than buy a third firearm car. [[Abg. Strong:... no idea!]] Dear ÖVP, since these unscrupulous news has been exchanged, almost 2,000 days have passed in which parents have worked hard to bring family and profession into a hat, 2,000 days in which families, single parents, but also the staff in the elementary education field could have been burdened, 2,000 days in which children would have been given early childhood education, 2,000 days, which have been used instead to make media mouth-dead, to push off political rivals and to build a turquoise system of power for a family that obviously did not understand the daily challenges of the population. [[Call the FPÖ: So it is!]] [[Abg. Smoking: The lady brings it to the point...!]] The bar for you is now quite low, but if you do not manage more than last year's continuation and the bamboo always hangs around the countries, nothing will change. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[12:24]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e5973	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Nikolaus Principal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e6000	Madam President. Federal Minister for Finance! President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Künsberg Sarre, opposition policy may have the advantage of demanding a lot, but the disadvantage is that one is so to speak, when it comes to implementation. And the difference between opposition and government is simply that we have to stand for something that is sometimes more difficult, but that's doing a lot more in the long run because you can move something than if you always have to faint in frustration, because you don't bring anything on. [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] But: You now have an opportunity in Vienna – let’s look at this in a few years, but then probably Mr. Landeshuptmann and Mayor Ludwig will be guilty that Mr. Wiederke has done nothing, but that’s another pair of shoes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] We are discussing the financial statements for 2020 under this item on the agenda. The 2020 financial statements show a deficit of 22.48 billion euros at 73.63 billion euros and 96.11 billion expenditure. The reasons for this are well known, which are simply the consequences of the corona pandemic, no longer and no less, the impact on the economy and thus on tax revenue. Much has been countered, the measures have already been listed several times – from short-time work to all the aid – but it must also be said that on the other hand, substantial additional costs have also been incurred in the health field, for example. Talking to people who have to do work at an intensive care station is about the extra burden they have had and what it means to work there. Maybe some people would have to think about it like this. Well, is there Corona at all? How do we do with it?, and above all says: I'm so healthy, I can't do that anyway! – These people should talk to people who work there who have experience and practice in this area. What has it been about in the last one and a half years? – That we find through this pandemic, we manage to keep the balance between the economy on the one hand and health on the other. If you make a comparison with other countries, you can say, I think, that Austria has come through the crisis in relation to the crisis, has so far come through the crisis very well and that the economy is really growing again – it actually is booming. Because today the issue of employment has already been addressed a few times: I do not think that we can counter unemployment with more money, because if we look at how many open jobs there are and how many unemployed people, then we know that we actually have full employment again, we are on the pre-Corona level. More directly: 3 per cent unemployment is expected to be practically constant. There is a certain amount of permanent unemployment through the change of job, which workers simply make. We need to focus more on how many open jobs there are and how we can get people to work in the best way possible, so that the economy also has the relevant professionals in the future, because politics is shaping the framework conditions. The mood, I think, can't be so bad, otherwise we didn't do so well in terms of economic development. In addition to the mood, trust is important, and the companies in Austria know that they can actually trust this federal government in terms of the framework conditions, and that is valuable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have heard the budget speech of Mr Finanzminister today, there is virtually any additional money, emphasis on education and additional measures. I am thinking only of broadband development, which is really very important for rural areas. But there is also additional funding for justice. I don't hide that I've been talked to and asked several times in the last few days: How can it be that there is so much going on to the public in the area of justice before the people concerned even get to know it? – I already believe that one can expect – no pre-conception – that one concludes the close bodies there, that objectively and quickly it is being clarified and that every institution in the triangle prosecutorship, defense on the other hand and the judges above correctly arranges that one sees it. At such opposition speech, I think you can already ask: Which country do you live in? If things were so bad, we would have to be quite different, because objectively we are good in Austria and Austria is successful. The Federal Accounting Financial Statement 2020 simply states that one has countered well, has put in place the right measures, and the draft budget 2022, which we will discuss tomorrow at first reading, is the right promise towards the future, because Austria really needs recovery, stability and a sustainable policy – and that is what we do together. [[Abg. Fireplaces: Less corruption!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e6077	Next speaker: Mrs Petra Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e6098	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! Mr Finanzminister! [[Abg. Fireplaces: No corruption!]] The Court of Auditors criticises the federal accounts in so far as it does not comply with the principles of budgetary clarity and budgetary truth, because the structure of the budget has been changed several times within a short time and so there was no comprehensible between the different budgets, it simply lacks transparency. I think, in view of what the economic and corruption prosecutorship is trying to find out, that transparency should be the first financial ministerial obligation and also the absolute duty of the government parties. It is all the more surprising that, to date, there is no willingness to set up a subcommittee of the Committee on Budgets, which looks at exactly where and how the corona aid has flown; a subcommittee which has the opportunity to take account of files, invite experts, invite people in and really see what has happened to this money. I wonder, Who has something to hide? Obviously there is something to hide, for otherwise there would not be such a vehement rejection of this idea, and it would not try so vehemently simply not to bring any transparency into this question. Another question that also moves people very much is who will pay at the end of the day the debt from this corona crisis, which will accompany us for many years, and how it can succeed that there is really a fair distribution and that those who have great wealth really do not make their contribution to the workers, the pensioners, the students, by paying once again – we already had this – self-retainment in health care or by reducing or removing social transfers. If you look at the first figures on the draft budget, it is obvious that the opposite is the case. The big donors of Sebastian Kurz will be those who are served, those who get tax reliefs, and those who get billions of gifts. Large group owners and foundations alone are charged with 1 billion euros per year, rewarded. In the light of the current investigations against ex-Bundeskanzler Kurz and the machinations of his turquoise system, this is not only incredibly naughty, but – not being evil – it mocks the taxpayers. It just can't be true. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because you're The theme of your budget is “Upswing, Stability and Sustainability”: Yes, people have a right to rise, but not to rise corruption, bribery and bribery; they have a right to stability, but not to stability to conceal who is the winners of the crisis; and yes, people also have a right to sustainability, but not to sustainability, to have a say in buying media coverage in favor of the ÖVP. This is certainly not what citizens want. With permission: I myself will not vote in favour of the budget, but despite all of this, it is really a shame.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e6141	The next speaker is Mrs Sibylle Hamann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e6162	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to replicate Mr Künsberg's speech briefly, and I would also like to thank him for the further request concerning the EUR 1.2 billion for childcare. For all viewers who may have missed this yesterday: We discussed the subject yesterday, and it is and remains of course important, regardless of the chats and sabotage requests that will not prevent us from doing the right thing in this matter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Waller.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] That is why, Mr Künsberg Sarre, I would like to say this again, yesterday we tabled a joint motion for a resolution by the government parties, with exactly the two points you mentioned, namely, the massive expansion of afternoon care and school forms all day and, on the other hand, the renegotiation of the 15a agreement on elementary education, with the explicit objectives: [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Development of places, massive quality improvements and a significant increase in the target grant. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] If these negotiations with the countries look at EUR 1.2 billion, I should be right. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, however, this request was rejected yesterday by the opposition. I think this is very bad, and I very much hope that we will find it back on the constructive path, because all the constructive forces in this country will need it, both in the federal and in the countries, so that we can do something together in this matter. [[New call for tender Heinisch-Hosek]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e6246	Mrs Henrike Brandstötter has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e6270	Mr. Federal Minister! President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear spectators at home! Yes, 1.2 billion euros for childcare are not included in the budget either. This, of course, makes it a little difficult. [[I should like to congratulate the NEOS and the honourable Member Mr and Mr Matznetter.]] Come to the next Tibetan prayer mill! What are Tibetan prayer mills? – These are the rollers that also teach people the possibility to maintain a positive karma. My prayer mill is: down with these crazy high issues for ads, up with the press promotion! I can promise you not only a positive karma, but also an open, liberal democracy, informed citizens, a fourth pillar that does not crumble, and journalists who can do their job. So let us go through the most important mediterranean construction sites quickly, the most important prayer mills! The first point is the “Wiener Zeitung”. Where do further reflections on the future of the “Wiener Zeitung” remain? At the end of 2022, the publication of the obligation for companies falls, and that is a good thing. Any euro that companies do not have to put into the compulsory publication of balance sheets and annual accounts is a euro that can flow into innovation and jobs, but the disappearance of this main source of revenue from the “Vienna newspaper” must not result in its being closed. This newspaper has deserved a serious debate, it has earned a thought about what its future can look like. The fact that one has not yet spoken about it may also be related to the fact that the turquoise system has not yet found a lever, as found in the “Wiener Zeitung” an added value for personal benefit, for one’s own career. Two other key demands, which were already cut out as to-dos at the media poll in 2018 – at that time, when you, Mr. Finanzminister, had a real concern as media ministers – are the ORF Board reform and press promotion. To ORF: The reform of the bodies is still a marginal note. There is still no multi-member board. Instead, the ORF wants an 8-percent increase in its fees, but does not want or can put forward a concept where it actually saves money, which is the strategy in which it wants to invest this money and how it benefits its actual mission to produce public value, i.e. create social added value. That's just one of the many ORF construction sites. The list ranges from the operation of the newsroom to the long-standing digitalization and positioning concepts and the generation change of employees to the arrival in the streaming age. The next point is press promotion, better known as advertising corruption. Col Sebastian Kurz has described the many ads during the pandemic as aid for the media in need, and thus has once again outlined his understanding of media promotion, namely ads, ads, ads, and thus dependencies, to degradate media makers into bitters and to achieve influence and sensitivity journalism. In 2018 in the media survey, a new set of press promotions was formulated, which can only lead to one action: down with the ad millions, up with the press promotion! One last point in the very long list: Transparency – let’s put transparency into media transparency law! An example of many: The Chamber of Commerce is Austria's third largest advertiser. You might be surprised. This 70-fold resisted organization with Chambers of State, Divisions, Sections and Trade Unions is a moloch, which spent almost 17 million euros on advertising in 2020. Finding out is laborious manual work. That's where I sat last night and led a regularist. It is impossible to imagine that citizens need to find out what our tax money is spent on in this way, in night work. Yesterday, Federal Chancellor Schallenberg said: Exceptional times require extraordinary steps! – I can only agree with that. So in this extraordinary time, we can go along with it and benefit from the situation so that we can do everything we can. I therefore urge all my colleagues in the political groups, all the media speakers, together with the stakeholders, with media makers, with stand representatives, with associations such as the Concordia Press Club, to finally create a new system, to find a new system of funding and finally bring it through the ramp. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e6334	Next speaker: Mr Andreas Kollross. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e6358	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! Unfortunately, Mr Hanger is not here now, but perhaps he is executed: As he said that with this EUR 1.2 billion, as far as kindergarten development is concerned, everything is not right, and we are discussing the billing today, I would simply ask: He should show us the line where the 1.2 billion euros stand – then we would really be punished for lies. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] Otherwise, I think, that's very well – that's just a forenote. Now to the budget: That is or that is why the Greens are afraid of their own courage and why they are not willing to break with the system in short, with the system ÖVP, and why they are satisfied with the fact that Mr. Kurz, if he ever appears in here at all – so far he is not there – changes from there to there. [[only point to the government bank, then point to the seats of the ÖVP delegates]] That is enough for you, and for this you are willing to burden commuters, tax tenants, avoid the abolition of cold progression, continue to play the boycott on the expansion of childcare, afternoon care, and continue to ensure that there is no kindergarten billions. [[towards Greens]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Instead, through the Köst reduction, there is a discharge for the donors of Mr. Kurz, for the donors of the ÖVP – donations are supposed to pay off – instead, there is no savings in the overarching funds for ads, no savings in the bloated media human apparatus that is available in the Federal Chancellor's Office. The system in brief, the ÖVP system is simply rewritten in this budget. There is therefore no system break, but in reality the system is short, the system ÖVP continues to be depicted in this budget, it is more of the same. Mr Finanzminister, you have thanked, in principle, the mayors, the local authorities, the mayors. This is also good because it was the mayors who eventually had to get the coals out of the fire as a result of the coronamis management. As with the corona heroes, however: Thanks alone is too little. At last, it needed financial assistance for the communities, and I will not tire of formulating this here, because everything made by this government, unfortunately also by you, by the ÖVP, by the Greens so far in the area of communities and cities, is not aid packages, but helpless packages. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] 4.5 billion euros are missing from municipalities and cities. With this budget, in which it is not even shown that there is any help, you are not even willing to help, but this budget you have presented today, burdened the communities and cities once more with 800 million euros each year. So you are not only willing to pay off the 4.5 billion euros in any way, but also burden the municipalities and cities. What does that mean? – It is not about a mayor, about the town hall, but about the quality of life of every person in that country, because all people live in a community or in a city. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] If the communities can no longer afford to do this any more, they will think about whether they need to increase fees, whether they have to increase the contributions in the childcare sector, which benefits they can no longer make, which investments they can no longer make. They will simply and simply produce an investment stand in Austria with this budget and with this burden on the communities and cities, thus permanently boycotting the regional small and medium-sized economy, all because it is important for you to serve the donors, than to give more funding to the communities and cities, and thus to citizens. If you do not believe it to us, who have been telling you about it here for a year and a half now, and you are not willing to do something in this area, then at least listen to your own people! What did the President of the Upper Austrian Community, Hingsamer, say about the budget? – “This is crazy.” There are only disadvantages for the communities that are served donors, the care is not even taken into account in any form. To colleagues from the ÖVP – the mayor's election and mayor's election – it has already shown: The citizens don't believe this very slowly anymore. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Bullshit!]] I would just like to remind you: Eferding, Vöcklabruck, Freistadt, Schärding – everywhere the ÖVP mayors have to take the hat, because they actually get the invoice presented here by the ÖVP. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Traun! Turn it on!]] [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] This budget is not social, this budget is not ecological. Back to the start, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e6451	Next speaker: Mr Johannes Margreiter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e6472	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Values spectators in front of the screens! The debate on the federal accounts for 2020 gives me the opportunity to point to a fiscal smallness, which, however, is extremely annoying in the management process, in the administration and especially in the interests of those concerned and which causes a lot of effort. It's about the legal transaction fee. The legal transaction fee is abolished in Austria as a former paper tax from pre-digital times. It has always been quite questionable, because in the case of fees, there should always be a counter-performance of the State behind it, which is actually not recognizable in the case of the legal transaction fee. In practice, we have heard today in the course of your speech, Mr. Federal Minister, how important it is to promote foundations to promote young entrepreneurs: What is the first thing a young businessman or a young businessman needs when they want to start a business? – The first is a business location. Most of the time they'll hire this. Business space rental is subject to the legal business fee, and there are then a lot of problems: Of course, the entrepreneur wants to have a contract as long as possible, so that it is as safe as possible and does not have to look for a new place after three years. That means he's interested in a long-term contract. However, the legal transaction fee is based on the duration of the contract and this can then become a very significant amount to be paid at the start of the company to the Fiscus in legal transaction fee. Even if it succeeds – and these are legally extremely difficult issues – to construct the rental relationship in such a way that it is considered to be an indefinite time, one has only the 36-fold annual performance as the basis for the legal transaction fee, but this also goes into the money, which is once again 1 000, 2,000 euros. That hurts at the beginning of a foundation. It would therefore be high time to consider whether this legal transaction fee is needed. I would like to remind you of the famous sentence: Small cattle, too, is messing! You, of course, as Minister of Finance, would like to say that. What does the legal transaction fee mean? – I have made a parliamentary request which is not quite up-to-date: The last number, that of 2018, shows 142 million euros. The annual revenue in no year was over 200 million euros. The fiscal income is therefore extremely manageable, the administrative burden for those concerned is extremely high. So you should consider whether you cannot delete this legal transaction fee. I would also have a cover proposal: With the ads a little bit save, then we would have the money inside very quickly. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[12:51]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e6641	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Christoph Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e6665	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Mr Finanzminister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! We have very often criticized the Green Government Group, today I would like to start with a compliment. Today it was not the green Members who applied for this nonsense of control at the Cofag by sending council members. With this strange argument, the ÖVP delegates have become like always. We want to make it clear what that means: It was an inconceivable process in 2020! From the crisis situation, it is decided almost freely to grant EUR 20 billion. And this is not done by state institutions which are subject to the normal control, the inconsistency of the Minister of Finance and thus parliamentary control – no! A black box will be built – inconceivable! And the argument that is then brought – well, you could have sent councillors – is absurd in itself, because these are committed to silence. Don't look like that! On the poster of the Greens was the last National Council election: The suit would choose green. . He has now had to make a request for political asylum in Scandinavia because it would have called for a green government party that has written its own transparency on the flags, which said that we would have established freedom of information, long ago with us, the parliamentary subcommittee, in order to control where the money has flown. That's what you've prevented! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] – In these calls, I immediately withdraw my compliment. I come back to the question of what this means for a clearance of accounts, in which it was not possible for Parliament to control an essential part. The very best thing is when Colleague Baumgartner of the ÖVP says: Well, it was wonderfully transparent, because there was the EU transparency database. – Luckily there are these, but you would have preferred to prevent them, because what we have seen in the promotions of over 100 000 euros was who the real profiters were. Here we find her again: Mr Pierer received just as much public support from the KTM as he paid out dividends. There was the McDonald's system. – You remember, ladies and gentlemen: The innhouses, the innhouses all have to have, the car colonies stood at the drive-in of McDonald’s. They have collected the highest amounts of funding. Starbucks has used so many subsidies that it would have to pay income taxes for the current average tax performance of the last 15 years – that is, a quarter of a thousand – in order to pay as much as it has received in one year. This happened in the Blackbox Cofag. I have on my own on the homepage www.blackbox-cofag.at with today's stand 984 complaints, including many hundreds of people who have requested in November, in January and still do not have the money. [[Abg. Obernoster: Well, well!]] Then there is the ÖVP College and says: Well, in Italy it took four months. – You should prefer to turn to this Lord here and stand up with us in the request for distrust, for he has promised in January, he will take care of any case. [[towards Federal Minister Blümel pointing]] Unfortunately, he didn't care about any case because you don't care about the little self-employed at the end of the day. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] This can be seen from what the tax reform is all about. It's going to lower Köst en gross, but the minimum corporate tax – is it forgotten, Mr. Wöginger? There small companies, if they have zero profit or loss, pay infinitely much corporate tax. You didn't do that, you didn't think about it, no, but at KTM, it can be a little more for Mr Pierer. He'll be able to open the wallet again if a campaign is in progress. Why are you doing that? - I don't understand. Try, as a compensation, to give the smaller ones more and where it is necessary to cash! Even Mr. Biden manages to adjust the corporate tax again, the Germans have a much higher level. Why do you give the money in this area a few, instead of giving it to the small entrepreneurs and the small self-employed, if you do not even compensate for the cold progression for the workers? I wish myself a little more commitment for little ones and a little less creamling for the big ones. This would also be very good for the ÖVP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e6725	Next speaker: Mr Andreas Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e6749	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! Mr Matznetter has now – I do not know – criticized the Cofag for how many times. Of course, that's not what he's supposed to be. I would like to say very clearly, especially for the spectators: First: There is a parliamentary control instrument – you know – that is the Court of Auditors – the President is sitting here, and this Court of Auditors is examining the Cofag. This should also be noted. You may not do that, but for the spectators this has been clarified here once. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Secondly, You yourself have said that there is also the transparency database at European level, where you can see from a certain scale what companies have received what support or support. I don't think it's right for you to always take out individual companies. There have been thousands of companies receiving this promotion. Mr Obernosterer has already said it today: More than one million applications have been processed at the Cofag. Mr Matznetter from the SPÖ, you can calculate for yourself how many small and medium-sized enterprises are involved and how they have received their money. Then look at it in the international comparison, while we are absolute top class! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Haubner: Exactly!]] Thirdly, They always make fun of the advisory board in which the social partners are inside and in which you have also been invited. If you do not want to see this as a control function, you would have been able to make a contribution there – and that is what we are doing there over and over again – to improving these support measures. You've always decided on this offer, because you probably didn't have any ideas for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e6796	Mr Gerhard Kaniak came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e6817	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear listeners! We have now heard a very long debate on the 2020 financial statements. Many speakers in front of me rightly identified the Corona crisis as the relevant event, which, of course, has messed up the budget budget massively. But let us actually look at the figures from a health perspective! I am pleased that there are now so many colleagues to listen to these remarks. [[Abg. Obernoster:... vote!]] [[Further call to the ÖVP.]] In 2020, the Federal Government has put it together to spend about 30 percent more money in the federal budget than was taken. At the federal level, a total deficit of 22.5 billion euros was generated. How much, do you think, has actually flowed into the health sector? – 610 million euros, not 3%, have actually flown into the health sector to cope with the crisis. For what have these 610 million euros been spent? – These have been spent largely for the overpriced and delayed acquisition of protective equipment – in most cases without any proper tender – and for PCR testing, which were often not targeted and also bought over-priced. Has additional treatment capacities been created? Were the caregivers paid better in the intensive medical field? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Nothing of this kind has been done. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if the budget is the policy put into figures, we must also look at the success of this budget on the basis of these figures. In some media houses there is already a raw report from the Court of Auditors, which analysed the crisis management of the Federal Government in 2020 and also the health sector. I'll tell you what's in it for the Austrians' health care in 2020: It says that there were 6.55 million fewer medical-patient contacts in 2020. It says that by 2020 there were 135,000 fewer precautionary investigations. It says that in the Austrian hospitals there have been 3.8 million less outpatient treatments in the ambulances. It says that in the Austrian hospitals there have been 1.8 million less days of evidence on the normal stations. The overload of intensive care stations has already been addressed. The report also states that there have been 32 000 days of siege in the Austrian intensive care stations. Yes, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, how does that fit together? - Not at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It was obviously saved on the completely wrong side and spent the money on things that had no effect on crisis management at all. The money was spent in order to cover and correct the excess disproportionate measures of the Federal Government. It has been spent on the economy and the replacement payments instead of dealing with and dealing with this health crisis properly. That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen, and it is a shocking truth. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Whoever now believes that the whole of 2021 has become better with the current budgets, I must let it down. In the crucial area of health care funding, the budget has been reduced by more than 130 million euros, not increased – we pointed this out already in the autumn of 2020. Even for the forthcoming 2022 budget, a natural increase to the level before the corona crisis is planned, but not an active increase in capacity, no additional means for the acquisition of alternative medications for covid therapy. No, 550 million euros are planned for the further acquisition of vaccines, without saying that it is planned to give 100 million euros alone in the next twelve months. The Minister for Health, who is now no longer here, confirmed this at the last meeting of the Committee on Health. That's what I'm asking myself: We lack the staff in the hospitals; there is no money for a decent remuneration of intensive medical care, doctors in the care sector and those in the settled area anyway – but at the same time are simply given 100 million euros that would have been necessary for us ourselves to deal with the crisis for our own health system?- Oh, my God! That's a huge cleaner, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] It is also apparent from every Member of the Government who sits there today and carries this loop. On the topic of breast cancer prevention, it is known that the number of screenings has decreased considerably and that in 2020 alone, due to the lack of precautions, 11 percent fewer cancer diagnosis than the previous one. These are just more than 550 undetected cancers in 2020. The balance sheet in 2021 will not be much better, ladies and gentlemen. That is why I say that the Federal Government would be well advised to rework its budget, to massively increase the funds for the actual therapeutic field and for health care in general and to stop distributing money with both hands that the Austrian State no longer has at all – instead, it should invest in the management of this crisis through the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e6890	Member of the European Parliament, you know that we do not use expressions such as “hypocritical” and “saury” in itself in debates. I would ask that we refrain from these expressions in the course of the course – with all the emotions that trigger some debate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Baumgartner.]] There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[13:05:44]] Address by the Second President on the day of metastatic breast cancer
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e6923	Before I ask whether we can reach the votes, I would like to thank you. They all know that today is the day of metastatic breast cancer and that the Austrian Parliament has been wearing the big pink loop over its entrance for ten years now in the breast cancer month of October. I would like to thank all of you today, with all the political groups in this House, that we too bear this loop as a sign of solidarity with the women concerned and their families. I thank the Austrian cancer aid for their daily commitment to women and their families. I am very happy to welcome 20 women affected in the House today.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e6949	I now ask whether we can proceed to the voting process immediately. - That's the case. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1062 of the supplements. If you vote in favour of the draft law, I ask for an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall immediately reach the third reading. Who agrees to the draft law in third reading? – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hubert Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, on the abolition of Cold Progression. If you vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for an acceptable sign. This motion for a resolution did not find the majority and was rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Julia, ladies and gentlemen, on "Climate investment instead of corporate tax gifts for corporations". Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Erwin Angerer, colleagues on energy poverty. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – The request did not find the majority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gerald Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Kalte Progression JETZT'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Martina Künsberg Sarre, ladies and gentlemen, on 'EUR 1.2 billion. and legal entitlement to afternoon care’. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for an acceptable sign. – This is the minority, rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Gerald Loacker, colleagues, on the abolition of legal charges. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. [[13:09:39]] 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Digitalisation on the Government Template (1043, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act adopting a Telecommunications Act (Telecom Law 2021 – TKG 2021), the KommAustria Act (KommAustria Act – KOG), the Criminal Procedure Act 1975 (StPO), the Police Cooperation Act (PolKG), the Police State Protection Act (PStSG), the Safety Police Act (SPG), the Securities Supervisory Act 2018 (WAG 2018), the Stock Exchange Act 2018 (BörseG 2018), the Postmark Act (PMG), the Motor Fahrzeuge Act 1967 (KG 1967), the Radio Plant Market Monitoring Act (FMAG 2016), the Funker-Zeugnisgesetz 1998 (FZG), the Broadcast FeZG), the Telecom FeZG and the Audiovisual Media Services Act (AMD-G) (1080 d.B.) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Research, Innovation and Digitalisation on motion for a resolution 1276/A(E) by Mr Mag. At last, implement Verena Nussbaum, colleagues on barrier-free communication on emergency numbers! (1081 d.a.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Research, Innovation and Digitalisation on Amendment No 1730/A(E) by Mr Mag. Dr Petra Oberrauner, colleagues on the free choice of devices for internet access (1082 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e7111	We now come to points 3 to 5 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First speaker is Mrs Petra Oberrauner. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e7138	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Appreciate spectators at home! The revision of the Telecommunications Act took a very long time, over three years, and we now have three weeks as parliamentarians to review it. In this context, I would like to thank the experts and employees for working so fast and competently. There are many points in this draft that have changed to the positive. For example, the definition of micro and small enterprises was adapted to the Austrian conditions. That's good. The small enterprises are now being improved and private individuals are being treated. That is, if they sign a contract, they will no longer have to search through complicated contracts – for which they have neither money nor time nor personnel. The liability rules have been improved, the liability is now balanced between operators and property owners. The one year mandatory e-mail forwarding is a good point. As far as the emergency SMS is concerned, the improvement for the deaf or the hearing impaired was also our wish. However, there is also significant deterioration for consumers. There is no longer the consumer's previous right to withdraw free of charge from contracts that are unilaterally modified by the provider. It has been tipped and there is now the formulation of the deposit payments or the return of smartphones. In practice, the method of doing so will encourage people to enter into a contract by means of low-cost tariffs, but when the time of supply is over, the provider may then increase these tariffs as desired and unilaterally. We don't think that's all right. That is why we will not vote in favour of this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another difficult point is how to deal with the removal of the information obligation in the TKG. We do not think that the present wording is clear enough: Is it a clarification that no information is provided in the event of an emergency, or do all information obligations fall? Are the Austrians no longer informed in retrospect whether their parent data or their locations were consulted? This is an extremely sensitive matter. This is a matter of involving the fundamental freedoms of citizens. Therefore, it must be ensured, even in the legislative text, that there are no legal gaps by which these fundamental rights for citizens are restricted by the state. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Our suggestions for improvement were to ensure that customers can get out of the contracts that the provider has provided free of charge. changes to their disadvantages in ensuring that citizens are informed when their location data and their common data are collected, all these proposals for improvement have been rejected by the government parties. Without these decisive improvements, we cannot accept this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e7201	Next speaker: Mrs Eva-Maria Himmelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e7223	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Visitors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! I am very pleased that this Telecommunication Act is here today for decision-making. There is a comprehensive innovation of the TKG. On the one hand, the law is re-codified, instead of a text from 2003 which has been revised several times since – 2003 when you imagine it: At that time, only 37 percent of households had Internet access. At that time the phones with camera function just came up, 0.1 megapixel was already an achievement. So this was a time that has already passed, and now we have the recodification; that is, the law has been rewritten, re-structured and is therefore intended to be easier to read for the user. We are not only making a recodification, but we are also implementing the ECC. This is a directive that deals with and regulates electronic communications, communications networks and services. This may not sound so exciting at the first moment, but the TKG is the basis for the telecommunications market in Austria. It partly regulates the expansion of the broadband network – and not only since the pandemic with Home Office and Distancelearning, we know how important it is to have fast and powerful internet. The TKG also regulates consumer protection, regulates data protection aspects, regulates cybersecurity aspects in the telecommunications market and also frequency allocation. So there are some innovations here and today that we have implemented with the implementation of the directive. Thus, an emergency and disaster warning system will be used to inform citizens via SMS or the like when there is a danger situation, either throughout the country or only in a particular region. There is now the possibility for people with special needs to use the emergency number 112 text based. That is, if there are restrictions in this respect, there is the possibility to stop an emergency call via SMS. It is also important for people who may be in a dangerous situation in which they cannot make telephone calls, that they have this possibility of a text-based emergency call. We simplify a lot in the area of cooperation between telecommunications companies. We all want a mobile phone on site, we all want to surf mobile, but what we don't want is a channel mast forest that grows everywhere. Thus, for example, transmission masts are also to be used jointly by different companies in order to stop them. At the time of conclusion of the contract, we provide consumers with all important, central information on the components of the contract so that they can see, see and be informed at a glance at the time of conclusion of the contract. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Which is also relevant: We are also pushing a bar to the painful practice of bis-to-packages in the Internet area by allowing the regulatory authority to create a regulation that requires clear and transparent regulation, which a provider can list in its packages. Nothing is more annoyed than if I involve a package with a tariff, with a download and upload speed, which I can in fact never, or only at 3 o'clock in the early morning, so at a time when I don't sit on the PC, I don't have to surf or work on the computer. We are also taking an important step. There would be much more to say about this. My colleague Reiter and my colleague, Mr Smolle, will certainly also refer to the regional impact of the Telecommunications Act. In conclusion, however, I should like to add a few important points: one amendment and two motions for resolutions, which are partly related to amateur radio. Amateur broadcasting is a very important function in our country, especially in emergency and disaster services. I would like to put this forward at this point today and, of course, to express personal thanks for the willingness and use of amateur radios. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In the course of the revision of the Telecommunications Act, a number of proposals and requests were made to us. Not all of us could be fair, not all could be implemented. Today, however, we want to ensure that there is liberalisation for amateur radios and that their license extensions are less bureaucratic. In this sense, I should like to make an amendment tabled by Mrs Eva-Maria Himmelbauer, Mrs BSc, Mr Süleyman Zorba, in the course of the debate on 1080 of the supplements. The proposal is already before you, so that I can only briefly explain it in terms of content. On the one hand, the license extension of amateur radio licenses is about the fact that they are unbureaucratic and can be done very easily. We are implementing editorial changes that may be necessary in such a comprehensive law. We shall introduce time limits for individual technical steps, which shall be taken at the time of entry into force of the law with 1. December, just as it would be planned not to be achieved by the provider, which makes such a transitional period necessary. I hope that I have therefore sufficiently explained the proposal. I should also like to make two more motions for resolutions relating specifically to amateur broadcasting: [[Quoted print version removed]] Secondly, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In this way we also achieve that the radio operators, who already make a significant contribution to training, can continue to carry out their tests in the future. Finally, thanks to all those involved in the Telecommunications Act. Thank you to the Ministry, to the officials who were very responsible, but of course also to my coalition partners, in particular Mr Zorba. Thank you to all those who have agreed to meet us with inputs. I hope you will agree. Thank you. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[13:22]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e7684	The amendment has now been presented by Mrs Himmelbauer in the broad outlines; it has also been distributed to all Members and is therefore under negotiation. Both motions for resolutions have also been properly tabled. The next speaker is Mr Gerhard Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e7708	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to take a closer look at today's telecommunications law from two points of view. One is once from the perspective of the investors and from the point of view of the providers. There have been some improvements in the framework of recodification, as it is so beautiful, which are quite worthy of mention. This is at least once the setting of a minimum time for radio frequencies by the regulatory authority, of course also the cooperation agreements and co-investments that are now possible, and of course the adaptation for universal service to technological development. Why is this particularly interesting for us citizens? – Because by 2030, 6 billion euros of investment are needed in this area. Of this, only the smaller part of the state will invest, the rest comes from the providers or systemic investors. We are already with the providers in the international market, for example with the owner of our A1. For the Mexican investor, it does not matter whether he is investing in Austria, Romania, Germany or elsewhere. Where the best conditions are, he will invest. This is true not only for this investor, but for all investors. That is, if we manage to make legal conditions, then we will soon have a comprehensive broadband internet in Austria, and not only the Internet, but also the voice radio and so on, so to speak, all the things to be taken into account. If we do not, then perhaps Romania or perhaps Greece or some country will be in front of us. What that means for our economy, I don't think I need to explain. On the other hand, however, it is also necessary to do a lot for consumers. The public warning system and the upgrading of the emergency call number 112 have already been .................................................................................................. What is of financial interest to consumers is the information for consumers through transparent contract information and tariff information and, of course, a good exchange of providers. This must be possible and that will be possible. In this context, we would have liked to see an improvement on two points. The one is the billing of location law: We thus create revenue opportunities for the ÖBB, for the Asfinag, both of which are owned by the state. The taxpayer as such, the consumer does not have something of it directly. The second point – this is Mr Nussbaum’s request – is that we need better access for disabled people in the field of public information services. We'd still like that. On the whole, however, it is a good law. We are now at the point that both 5G, i.e. the radio solution, as well as fiberglas, the cable-bound solutions, are ready; the catastra communities are allocated to the respective service providers. Now it is about creating incentives for the communities. The communities are those that really create the last link between the provider on the one hand and the consumer on the other. The citizen, the user, must also build up appropriate pressure to ensure that this is created in his area, whether this is remote area or in the middle of the urban area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e7760	Next speaker: Mr Süleyman Zorba. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e7784	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! The Telecommunication Act, which is valid until the last time, is from 2003. At that time, folding hands were in fashion, with terms like smartphones and 5G nobody could start anything, and I myself was just ten years old. The technologies relevant to the field, including communications networks and terminal equipment, as well as their role in our everyday lives, the economy and climate protection have changed dramatically since then. In order to respond to technological progress, the relevant framework conditions at EU level have been substantially changed and summarised in a Directive, the European Code of Electronic Communications, ECC in short. The new structure and the variety of changes were immediately taken as a basis for re-coding the entire TKG and making it clear. With this new law we create the necessary framework conditions for telecommunications and thus for a wide variety of actors in this area. Not only mobile operators, but also users as well as regulatory authorities are affected. We were particularly concerned with promoting infrastructure development, strengthening consumer protection, network security and data protection. We create incentives for the necessary infrastructure development by, for example, extending the minimum allocation period for frequencies or implementing new competition rules to pool costs and risks. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In particular, this will force the provision of broadband for rural areas. Another innovation is the establishment of a Advisory Council in the relevant regulatory authority. This Advisory Board is intended to closely review the solutions provided by the suppliers and thus ensure that the new mobile phone standard is used safely. Do it. The Advisory Board will include not only economic representatives, but also experts from science and research. In addition to the major innovations in the field of inclusion, which my colleague Grebia will report, we were particularly concerned about the numerous improvements in the field of consumer protection. For example, in the event of adverse unilateral change of contract by mobile operators, the right of contract was extended to three months. That means in concrete terms: If my provider changes my contract to my disfavor, I now have more time to look into better options. We have also introduced a new right of termination in the event of a change of residence: If the telecom provider cannot offer the same contractual services at the new residence, as was the case at the old residence, consumers can now terminate their contract extraordinarily even before the minimum contract period expires. So you save yourself annoying double payments. At the conclusion of new contracts, there will be more transparency for consumers in the future. We know this: Hardly anyone has time, lust or expertise to check a complete contract for unfavorable clauses. This can lead to bad surprises later. With the new TKG, we now require the Telekom providers to sum up all their contracts in a short and easy way. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] This facilitates the comparability between different offers and allows consumers to avoid pitfalls in the future. I should like to thank all those who have contributed to this law at this point. In particular, I would like to thank Mrs Minister and the Ministry, a very special thanks to my colleague, Himmelbauer, for the good cooperation and to the many stakeholders who, with their constructive opinions, made a significant contribution to this draft law, which I believe has been successful. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] It wasn't an easy undertaking, it took a long time, there were a number of negotiation rounds and talks we've been conducting for over a year; now it's done: With the Telecommunication Act 2021, we create the basis for further expansion of the digital infrastructure and allow people in Austria to make safe use of the opportunities arising from it. I ask for broad consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e7860	The next item is Mrs Melanie Erasim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e7882	Estimated President! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[In the direction of representatives of the Pink Ribbon Action:]] Appreciated fighters at the gallery, welcome from my side as well! Dear spectators in front of the screens! I would like to take a closer look at an aspect which, for me, is a reason why, as a Socialist parliamentary group, we cannot give our consent to this motion for a law. This aspect is perhaps seen at first glance in comparison to the scope of the law as a small matter, but it is a very clear aspect that highlights the importance of the needs of people with disabilities in this broken government, because what was only treated very thoroughly in the new Telecommunication Act is the implementation of the EU directive on barrier-free communication. Only the minimum measure, only the planoll was fulfilled, no millimeters went further. For most people, access to communication and information systems is natural, but many people with visual or hearing impairments are excluded. In Austria, some 9 000 deaf people live, and another 450,000 people are affected by hearing impairment. So that's not a small group. Now you submit a recast of the Telecommunications Act, which fails to make sufficient use of all the possibilities of modern communication in order to simply offer more security. The issue of security is otherwise very important to you, but usually only when it comes to someone, and not when it comes to helping a group that has to deal with disadvantages anyway. Mrs. Minister! Why was this not fully implemented, namely with all the means the digital world has to offer, for example, the relay service, the interpretation service with video telephony? I am already very, very excited about your statement; I would like to shift the responsibility back to the federal states; that would be too little for me as a statement. Especially now in the Corona crisis has shown how important access to accessible information is for all. Access-free alternatives are also hardly taken into account in government communications with the most expensive tax money. First of all, the interventions of some disabled organisations, not least our parliamentary group, first of all my colleague Verena Nussbaum – also a warm thanks to you that you are always strong for these rights on the front line – have made sure that, for example, the corona emergency call can also be reached through barrier-free apps. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] If you look at the barrier-free DEC112 app – I also say it for the spectators, because it is still very unknown –: Only around 1 300 people are registered with this project, which has set itself the goal of developing a modern, standardized and accessibility infrastructure for emergency services. – In this area, awareness-raising and information-opportunity should be promoted. So you see, that's really a lot to do. I am sure that if you did not have to constantly deal with chat protocols, ads and house searches in this frail government, you would have enough energy and has to devote yourself to these important details. These very important details are crucial for whether a law can be regarded as successful or as inadequate. This telecommunications law, as much as it is in this Federal Government, is simply not intended to end. More commitment to essential details, less staging at the expense of taxpayers and more interest in finding forward-looking solutions for people in Austria that have also earned these names. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e7936	Next speaker: Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e7957	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Values Watchers in front of the TV sets! Cross-border fast internet is one of the main topics, we need it to be prepared for the future. Whether it's business or not, it's whether it's education, no matter what the area of life it's actually about: The fast Internet – high-speed internet – is necessary for this. I believe that this TKG is a good basis for this. I am usually someone who also criticizes the members of the government. One must honestly say that in the opinions some things have been inside that in the first draft – I think you, Mrs. Federal Minister, know that best – some things were not yet perfect, but there was really a lot of energy invested to improve these things. I believe that the draft now before us is quite acceptable and, in large part, very good. I can also congratulate you on this – even once from the opposition. Especially for the 5G expansion is one of the bearing columns that are necessary, of course, the subject of location law for antenna masts. There were improvements to the first draft: The mandatory use of co-use has fallen. That is, especially when we look at rapid, broad expansion, an important point, which has also been strongly criticized, and there you went everywhere. If you look at the figures, you can see how necessary this law is and how necessary the measures are in order to speed up and make it easier. Austria was final light in the European Union in 2019 with only 1.9 percent of the fibre penetration. Even if we look at the speed: In Austria, it is an average of 8 to 14 Mbits, and the top riders in Europe are 40 to 50 Mbits per second, where we are far removed. This shows how urgently necessary measures are now, but I also demand from the government, and I expect it to come as quickly as possible now that this basis is being created. But there are, of course, a few things in the draft that are not quite that optimal; I just want to focus on them briefly. On the one hand, this is the issue of consumer protection. It has already been mentioned: Consumer protection is quite expandable in some areas, there is not everything 100 percent the way we would have imagined it. One of the issues I have also mentioned in the Committee is the Advisory Board on Safety in Electronic Communications Networks. This Advisory Board will now decide – unlike in the first draft, in which this was not quite clear and the Advisory Board was still much more politically planned – who is a high-risk supplier. To explain to the spectators at home: It's about which manufacturer we can buy or not buy infrastructure from. The most recent example of such a high-risk supplier is Huawei, but in the near future this scheme may also affect other suppliers. In accordance with the current draft law, this Advisory Board will consist of 13 persons appointed by the Federal Government and coming from various fields. The Ministries are also required to deliver. However, the draft requires only two members of the Technical Advisory Board to be competent – for the others, this is not foreseen in the draft. This is something that we are quite complaining about, because in such a sensitive area in particular, it is important to ensure that there are really professional and non-politically-opportunistic people. It is about the fact that this Advisory Board should make a technical decision, not a political one. That is something we ask you, Mrs Köstinger, in particular, to pay particular attention to the fact that in this body there are really skilled people and not politically opportunes. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e8005	Now Mrs Bundesminister Elisabeth Köstinger has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e8029	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I am very pleased that we have the opportunity today to deal with the Telecommunication Act in the National Council in 2021. The Federal Government has set itself the very ambitious goal of providing solid and mobile gigabit connections throughout Austria by 2030, thus providing the whole country with fast internet. This is a very ambitious goal – but the figures speak for themselves: In the last three years alone, we have been able to increase Gigabit supply in Austria from 14 percent to 48 percent. So that means: The speed is right, the financial resources we use are right, and in particular the commitment of private telecom operators is true. I am now really convinced that we will achieve this goal. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Secondly, and this plays an important role in the development of telecommunications, new technologies are very helpful to us. We pioneered the 5G licences in 2018 in Europe and are now in third place in Europe as far as 5G development is concerned. Above all, we benefit very much from the latest design of the call for proposals, with which we have for the first time also defined expansion obligations. The telecom operators who increase 5G licenses can thus set up a third of their 5G masts in the urban area and have to set up two thirds of the transmission stations in sub-supplyed regions, which, of course, is of great help to us in the development of rural supply. Thirdly, this is also crucial, a budget speech has just gone ahead: We will be available EUR 1.4 billion by the year 2026, which will help us develop fast Internet access, especially in our communities, in our regions, in our rural areas, in order to achieve equal opportunities between city and country. I believe that the basic conditions and the starting point for broadband development in Austria have never been as good as now. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We also take intensive care of the technical details of the legal framework: It was a very far-reaching decision for us to undertake a complete re-codification of the Telecommunications Act from 2003. In the last 20 years there have been many milestones in telecommunications, it has already been addressed. I can remember myself when I installed the Messenger Service ICQ on the Stand PC. The word app did not exist in language use in 2003, and smartphones were only developed five years later. So if you look at what the legal framework has been up to now, you can imagine about how many obstacles there were in the development of the TKG 2021. Of course, the liberalisation of the telecoms market with January 1998, which has brought us to the fore in Austria in terms of mobile communications infrastructure, was also crucial. But above all, and this must never be forgotten, liberalisation has also provided us with a favourable tariff landscape compared to other countries, since competition was an essential factor. Today we are at another very important threshold as regards the era of the fast mobile Internet. It is the basis for the Internet of Things, which will revolutionize many areas of life: Assistant Living can be mentioned here, for example, in order to improve the quality of life of older or disadvantaged persons. Applications in the field of Industry 4.0 will greatly advance Austria's economic location, but also technologies such as automated driving, which will bring a completely new perspective in the field of mobility. With the TKG 2021 we also implement the new European telecommunications law in Austria. At EU level, four of the five main directives were merged, revised and transferred to the European Code of Electronic Communications. We have taken the opportunity, after 20 years, to undergo the entire telecommunications law with 217 sections of a textual recodification, to structure it more clearly and to make it more readable. This was a very ambitious project, and with the Council of Ministers decision of 22 December. We have created the basis for September and parliamentary treatment. The main changes concern the creation of incentives for investments in telecommunications infrastructure, the optimization of frequency procurement procedures – this is important for the rapid expansion of mobile communications – and improvements in the field of civil protection. This was a very special concern for us: When you look at the natural disasters of recent years, it is clear that it is essential to be networked across Europe. There are also changes in consumer protection and network security. Maybe very briefly for some details: We are creating regulatory approaches that will speed up the development of broadband, and we are implementing a competitive simplification of cooperation, something that has long been necessary – for example, the sharing of transmission masts has been addressed in this context. The minimum time available for mobile frequencies will also play an important role, and there is a new right of establishment for the easier establishment of mobile communications infrastructure. In the case of innovations in the emergency service and disaster warning systems, we are taking credit to the Europe-wide uniform public warning systems for crises. I should like to thank the Ministry of the Interior and the federal states for their good cooperation. We will have fully implemented our projects in this area until mid-next year. We create easier access to emergency number 112 for people with special needs: In the future, there will be the possibility of text-based emergency calls, even that was long ago. Mrs Erasim referred to the relay service for deaf and deaf people: We have already explained it in the Committee, the experts of my house have already explained that relay services are covered by this innovation. I understand that the SPÖ as the only party has sought one more reason to reject the new TKG, but I would like to point out that this is the wrong reason. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] We have reviewed and improved a lot for people with special needs, which was also the express wish of the Federal Government and the ministries concerned, and the primary responsibility lies with the Ministry of Health. In short, on the innovations in consumer protection: The compact summary of contracts that needs to be made available to consumers will significantly improve the readability and understanding of the contracts. Improvements in anti-number abuse measures are also a central issue, as is the new possibility of continuing to receive e-mail to the address provided twelve months after termination of an Internet contract. All of these are major improvements. The last point I can still address is network security, a subject which, of course, is very intensively discussed at European level. We create a monitoring system for any high-risk suppliers in the area of the development of the 5G networks. We are also putting into national law the 5G Toolbox provided by the European Commission for the Member States. A Advisory Board will be set up with the regulatory authority, which will draw up an Perception Report every two years. All of this will help to ensure that we are particularly equipped in the area of network security, not only in the current starting point, but above all in future developments. That was so far an overview of the Telecommunication Act 2021. At this point, I would like to thank the majority of Parliament's parties, who are very grateful to Telecomers for their good cooperation. A very great thank you also goes to the employees of my house, who in recent months have been massively required to implement this telecommunications law, and who have worked very intensively on it. I would like to ask for approval of the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e8132	I now give the floor to Mrs Katharina Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e8157	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! We've heard a lot now. Today, after very long negotiations, a new telecommunications law is on the agenda we are debating. On the one hand, it is about long-term adaptations and adaptations, which a digital world urgently needs, and, on the other hand, of course, on amendments based on the European directive. It's about frequencies – we've heard it – it's about their allocation, it's about cooperations, about consumer protection issues, and it's about – and I'm supposed to say consciously – also about increased network expansion. But quite frankly, what is happening there and what has been sold to us today by the Federal Minister, but also by colleagues in the government groups, is simply too little. It's not the broadband offensive that's being spoken of, because it's still just, and not only somewhere in the most remote valleys, but also – how am I supposed to say? – in the neighbouring state of Lower Austria, there are spots that are not accessible from the Internet. This leaves the right to the Internet, and this is extremely problematic in 2021. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Yes, Mrs Bundesminister, there are some points that are good, Mr Oberrauner has responded. There are, however, quite clearly – and we have already announced this in committee – three points that are essential to us, why we will not agree to this draft law today – even today, not only in committee. One is the issue of web-blocking, a really important issue, which unfortunately was not addressed within the framework of this TKG-Novelle. On the one hand, this is about net neutrality, which must be guaranteed, and on the other hand, about preventing censorship. It is about both poles, namely providers and users. It is a pity that the opportunity has not been perceived to regulate network barriers. A motion for a resolution was proposed in the Committee's framework to invite a round of stakeholders. Unfortunately, we do not see a motion for a resolution on the matter of controlling netlocks. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Zorba and Mr Himmelbauer.]] That is one point why we simply don't go along today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A second, very, very important point: Consumer protection issues, such as the unilateral resolution of contracts from providers, because the Terms and Conditions change. We believe that there would have been options that you would not pay any deposit payments for a mobile phone if the provider, the provider, suddenly changed the contract. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Himmelbauer]] These variants would exist and the directive, ladies and gentlemen, would be so. We have made concrete proposals which have unfortunately not been adopted. The third aspect, which is still to be mentioned today and which is still causing me pain, is the obligation to provide information, the obligation to provide information on the questioning of my location. If I choose an emergency call number, the new TKG, as it were, lacks the information requirement, so the provider does not need to automatically inform me about it. It's supposed to be – yes! – be re-regulated, but quite honestly: This is a very large history of data protection and, in our opinion, it is a problem that unfortunately this has not been solved. We would have proposed a clarification, unfortunately neither the EIA nor the Greens have responded to it. On the basis of these points, we will not vote in favour of the draft law today, because it is a matter of greater consumer protection, of the right to data information, and that is not guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e8226	Next speaker: Mr Josef Smolle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e8247	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank you for making the effort not to revise an existing law based on EU directives, but to actually codify it and bring it into a transparent and easy-to-read form. Thank you, Mrs Minister, to your entire team, to all the experts who have been involved, to the speakers of all the parliamentary parties who have been involved in the discussion, and finally to the legal team, which has ultimately brought it into such a clean, easy-to-read form. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In terms of content, I would like to address two issues. One issue can be described as an eco-social market economy, the second as client and customer orientation. What do I mean by the eco-social market economy? – This draft law has the goal of quickly getting a good, broad expansion of telecommunications infrastructure. This will benefit from the strengths of the market, and will benefit from the competition which has already proved successful in many respects. At the same time, however, we are also aware that there can be competition failures, for example in remote regions. There is the possibility to intervene in the control. Finally, this is an infrastructure that is as vital as the water, the electricity, the rail or the road. That is why it is also very important that the public hand is able to acknowledge and, if necessary, regulate its responsibility. It is also ecological, because very many foundations are created in production, in accident prevention, but also in the development of peripheral rural areas to make our lives more ecological and sustainable. I come to the second point: Customer and customer orientation, which is clearly felt in this design. Some have already been mentioned, I am thinking of the obligation of the providers to present a transparent, well-intelligible summary of the contracts. Customer-friendly, however, is also, with regard to the question of whether you can also use other terminal devices, terminal equipment, to oblige providers to clarify the technical specifications, so that someone who is interested can change something in this regard, which can also do quite well. One very important point, of course, is the emergency calls, especially for people with special needs. The fact that this is now possible text-based is a great step forward. The technical regulatory framework will also be created to make video relaycalls possible. Finally, there is also the possibility of responding to an emergency call or emergency call via app, even if the person does not have the opportunity to post a message. This can happen in very precarious situations – think of an attack or a serious medical emergency! – be very, very helpful. The theme of the network locks remains open. This is really a highly sensitive, very important and complex subject. I am pleased, if this is done, and I would really like to invite all political forces to take an intensive part in the Stakeholder Process, so that a viable draft can come out on this issue as well. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e8299	Next speaker: Mrs Nurten Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e8323	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking here about the new telecommunications law, which has been discussed for a very long time. All the more so, one would expect from a law that has been discussed for so long that it is as perfect as possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zorba.]] - No, not at all! Don't! We would like that very much. My colleagues have already pointed out what is happening to us: from web locks to information on data queries to the data subjects under § 53 Security Police Act. If you know how the BMI is set up, then I have to say that I am all the more concerned that consumers are not informed that data surveys have taken place. There is not even an alternative, but it is removed without replacement. Perhaps you could also listen to today’s Ö1 “Morgenjournal”, there has also been some evidence. It has also been praised by my colleagues. If you want to, I can also praise it, because there are really measures that we very much welcome, so we were also prepared to support this draft law very well, with the requirement that there be an amendment which takes account of these wishes. What is it? - No, tastes! We will therefore not be able to support it. [[Abg. Himmelbauer: We reported back and also mentioned our reasons for this!]] - Please? – The reasons, yes – – Yes, yes. [[Abg. Himmelbauer: We reported back, we also mentioned our reasons why it is not possible to make these changes!]] [[Abg. Heaven Farmer: Yes! For example, the code provides that there is a discount payment here too!]] [[Abg. Heaven Farmer: Yes!]] [[Further call to the ÖVP.]] We have also mentioned our reasons why we cannot go along. Unfortunately, we will not support the draft law, which leads us very much, because after so many years of discussion and preparation, we would have been very happy to go along with it. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I hope that there will be a survey on these netlocks, that we can also bring ourselves in there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zorba.]] – But this is just a promise between two Members, that is nowhere inside, and I know these non-binding promises made by the government parties, so I say: Let's see! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e8422	Heike Grebien is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e8446	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Colleagues! Valuable guests here at the gallery and also at home! As we have already heard from my colleague, Mr Zorba, the TKG 2021 includes numerous changes, for example in the field of comprehensive broadband provision or improvements in the field of consumer protection. In my speech, I address the extension of emergency call number 112 by text-based messages. What does that mean? What does it mean that I can send a text-based message to the emergency call number 112? For which people could that be important? For more than ten years now, the Austrian Headless Federation has called for the implementation of the technically already feasible in the area of barrier-free emergency calls. According to Österreichisches Behörlosebund, such a barrier-free emergency call includes, in particular, an SMS emergency call with dialogue function. Note: The deaf emergency call 0800 133 133 was at the time only geared towards one-sided communication, that is, as a deaf person, one did not know if the emergency call had arrived. In 2016, there was a letter from the Austrian earless association to the radio and Telekom Regierungs-GmbH, RTR. For example, those who in Austria are trying to send a text message to the European emergency phone number 112 to alert the police, the fire brigade or rescue will not be able to expect any help at this time. The Austrian Hearless Federation called for the implementation of non-discrimination and accessibility-free access to the single euro call 112 around the clock. A smaller international excursion: In America, for example, there has been this possibility since 2014. Yes, and now it is 2021 and we finally take the first step in Austria to make the emergency barrier smaller. The operator of the emergency call number 112 is now obliged to accept text-based emergency calls and also to reply by text. Other emergency services should follow. § 122 para. 4: “In particular, it is necessary to ensure that two-sided communication can take place. ” Text-based emergency calls can be used to understand SMS, but you can also understand messenger services or other applications such as apps. It is important that this two-sided communication is made possible to the emergency service. It is expected that other emergency services will also accept emergency calls without any legal obligation. If this is not the case, the regulatory authority and the Federal Minister may, according to Abs. 4 to be ordered by regulation as well. Furthermore, the regulatory authority may require further emergency services by means of a regulation to accept text-based emergency calls. In summary, therefore, the following can be observed: In the event that the obligation regarding text-based emergency calls should not lead to the desired success, namely the equivalent provision of disabled end-users with emergency services, Further measures, such as the extension of the relay service, may be adopted by regulation. So, I think, it is actually clear that we have taken an important and necessary step here. From my point of view, further regulations will be needed in order to really achieve this desired success, namely to ensure the equivalent supply of disabled end-users to all end-users. We Greens – I can tell you that – will pay particular attention to whether this desired success is set for deaf people, for those with hearing and speaking disabilities as well as for deaf people. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e8500	Next speaker is Carina Reiter. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e8525	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! We are dealing today with the TKG, the Telecommunications Act. I am particularly concerned about the development of broadband and mobile networks, which should be significantly accelerated. I myself live in Pöham, which is a village at parish and that is just 7 kilometres from the town center, on a farm on the mountain top, so central is not necessarily one of the words I would use to describe my housing. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] But when you look at the broadband atlas, you see: At home there is a download rate of 80 megabits per second – that's not bad, so you can work once. In principle, in Austria we have a good basic supply with fixed network broadband of 99 percent, which is about 3.9 million households. Especially federal countries such as Salzburg, Tyrol, Vorarlberg and Vienna already have gigabits that can measure themselves with the best countries in Europe. So we've done a lot in this area already, you have to say that clearly. Our objective, however, is a comprehensive broadband supply, simply to create equal opportunities for all our regions. That is to say, the government wants to ensure comprehensive solid and mobile gigabits by 2030. We know the settlement structure in Austria: There are valleys that are very remote, there are large land-based countries in which it is not necessarily easy to get on with the connections. For us as a People's Party, however, it is very, very important to provide the remote regions with fast Internet. For example, if one takes from the village of Unken the Hintergföll: There you have to be a little patient while downloading, as you travel at 1 megabits per second in a slightly slower area. But there is light at the end of the data tunnel. In 2022, Hintergföll is connected to a glass fiber, so an adequate internet supply is really possible there as well. This means that 140 objects are connected in this area in Unken and 355,000 euros are invested. This will allow us to make a significant contribution to bridge the famous, well-known last mile. In order to do this, federal, state and local authorities must work hand in hand. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Especially with this telecommunications law, we create a good basis for this, because our life realities are simply such that digital work is standard, which applies to the home office as well as to the court office, because our agriculture is already very digitized. Progress is worth something to us. We often do not know what our infrastructure, whether it is channel or road, but also the digital infrastructure costs. By 2026, however, the Federal Government will provide EUR 1.4 billion, bringing about a boost in broadband development in particular for less favoured areas. With the new funding directives, we can guarantee rapid and efficient expansion. Two important points in these funding directives are clear to me: Those who develop communities across the globe receive a significantly higher federal funding, and all areas are de facto up to 100 megabits, which is very essential for the expansion. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We have ambitious but feasible goals. It is quite clear to us that the Internet is part of the basic provision, and our credo as a federal government is: expand and upgrade further. With the Telecommunications Act, we are clearly at the heart of time, and especially in the field of research, innovation and digitization we know: Go with time, or you'll go with time!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e8598	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. Before we enter the voting process: Do the clubs want a break? - That's not the case either. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft federal law which amends a Telecommunication Act, the KommAustria Act, the Criminal Code, the Police Cooperation Act and other laws, into 1043 of the Supplements. Mr Hiezu has tabled an amendment or amendment by Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. Therefore, I will first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal mentioned and the request for separate vote, following the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Himmelbauer, Mr Zorba, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment on the subject. 1 Sections 4, 39 and 45. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the separate vote on a point of order. 1 § 56 para. 5 as amended by the Government template. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign of approval. – This is also accepted by the majority. Mr Himmelbauer, Mr Zorba, Mr De Keersmaeker and Mr De Keersmaeker, have tabled an additional or amendment concerning Rule. 1 §§ 59, 89, 107, 114, 133, 144, 181, 188, 200 and 212. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This too is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Eva-Maria Himmelbauer, Mr Süleyman Zorba, colleagues on 'Relay stations'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by the majority. [[201/E]] We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Eva-Maria Himmelbauer, Mr Süleyman Zorba, colleagues on 'Amateur radio tests'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This too is largely accepted. [[202/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Proposal from the Committee on Research, Innovation and Digitalisation to take note of its report 1081 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Committee on Research, Innovation and Digitalisation to take note of its report 1082 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by the majority. [[14:14:27]] 6. Point Report by the Health Committee on the motion for a resolution 1824/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the 1950 Epidemic Act and the Act on COVID-19 (1067, B.) 7. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1925/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the COVID-19 Emissions Grant Act (1068b) 8. Point Report and request of the Health Committee on the draft federal law, which provides for the Federal Law on a COVID-19 funding for: operational testing (BTG) is amended (1069 d.a.) 9. Point Report by the Health Committee on the motion for a resolution 1822/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, colleagues on a federal law amending the COVID-19 Lagergesetz (1070 d.b.) 10. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1467/A by Dr Josef Smolle, Ralph Schallmeiner, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Health Telecommunications Act 2012 (1071 d. B.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Health Committee on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, colleagues, on a Federal Act amending the Health and Health Organization Act and the Medical Products Act (1072 a.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e8839	We now come to points 6 to 11 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Philip Kucher is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e8870	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that after today's morning it is time for us to strengthen Federal Minister Mückstein's backs across all party borders, that we really stand up in the middle of the Corona crisis and help him because today something has happened in the early days, which is really inconceivable in the health crisis. [[Abg. Belakovich: Why?]] We have experienced a finance minister who, in his budget speech, clearly forgot about the health and care sector. I don't know, it might be important for us to discuss personally how this could happen. [[Abg. Belakovich: Because he did bad business!]] We are all here now, talking about the health issues, and it would be urgent for us now to sit together in a cross-party way and try to repair each other, that does not happen what we have experienced last year, namely that after he has forgotten once six zeros, Blümel forgets the health and care sector this time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can remind you: If all of us on a note had had a strict list of how often we have been told of appreciation and respect for all the people who were in the Corona crisis day and night at the bed for us who did great things, then the note would be quite full. But the budget that has been presented today is now empty, and I really ask that we fix the most important points with each other again. One area is the health sector. There is nothing to be done to deal with the shortage of doctors in Austria. The ÖVP is always talking about rural areas – nothing has happened. It is also about the right of opportunity in rural areas – because I see, in particular, Mr Obernosterer, who is very kind to me and who agrees with me through it. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] It is, I believe, very important that we do something here about the lack of doctors and rural areas. I'm just asking: Where is the doubling of the number of places in medical studies? It is inconceivable that only a tenth of the young people get the chance to study medicine. It's about young people's hopes! I can also report quite a lot of conversations in which I have talked to young people who have been volunteering in the Red Cross for years. It then depends on some tests on which it is about perhaps learning some things externally and being able to reproduce in a stress situation. You can't be serious that you don't do anything in the field of medical courses! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Where is the extension - - – – Please, the science speaker, that is very important, since we now have at least one alliance partner from the ÖVP. [[Abg. Tashner: This is populism!]] It would be important that, at least in this respect, we also provide for the repair measures in the science budget. [[Abg. Tashner: Mr Kucher, you know it's much more complicated!]] Doubling the number of medical places – a first correct measure, perhaps we can still do this with each other. Our request has already been submitted. In addition to the health sector in which we should do so much more in the field of the prevention of mental diseases, it is of course also about care. We all know that in the care not only 100 000 people are missing by 2030, but there are also people who say to us every day: I can't do it anymore under these working conditions! – Where are the quality criteria? Where's the extra money? Where is the care billion for patients? – There's so much to do, and nothing is budgeted at all. The Minister's given a little play money, he says no one's gonna get on it. – It’s about caring for old people who really need our support. There must be more! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So I'm really asking: Let us sit together and find a solution together! Let us do what we have promised, and let us now strengthen our health system as a measure after the corona crisis! One thing I would like to address here – Mr President Hofer, perhaps you can also judge Mr Sobotka, I think if he had been there, he could not have believed it himself –: One has to imagine that in the Health Committee there are black and green of 21 applications that have been submitted – of 21 applications! –, 20 applications postponed! Psychiatric health, psychotherapy as cash benefits, Prikraf – one may remember the 50 000 euros that have migrated from private clinics to the account of the ÖVP, which has been promised that this will be repaired – has been said to all of this: Let's delay! I honestly say: We are all paid to work and to carry on, not to delay and move to the long bank. So I really ask – five before twelve! –: Let us strengthen Minister Mückstein, who is new in function, the back! Perhaps he didn't know exactly how to create the budget properly, and he forgot to put the demands in the direction of flowering. Let us all help one another Minister Mückstein and make sure that the health and care system in Austria is secured! Now, five to twelve years ago, we have the opportunity to do so with each other.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e8974	Ralph Schallmeiner is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e8998	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens and here at the gallery! If such an offer comes from Philip Kucher, you always have to be a little careful, such approaches and back reinforcements could also be a Danaer gift. I believe that the Minister knows very well what he has done and how to register a budget. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] But let us come to the real issue, because there is something completely different about these agenda items. In fact, these are measures in the fight against pandemics. It is about extending various measures. It's about the pandemic, unfortunately, it's not over yet. We currently have more than 12,000 people in Austria who are suffering from Covid who are at home. In the last seven days, on average, there have been 1,800 new cases per day. [[Abg. Belakovich: That's wrong what you say!]] Nearly 10 percent of intensive care capacity in hospitals is spent with covid patients, most of which are unvaccinated. The younger they are, the longer these people are at the intensive care station, up to 35 days, according to statistics. We also see that where there is a high rate of vaccination, the numbers are more positive and the burden on our health system is significantly lower. That is why we need to keep an eye on this, and that is why we need to continue to take appropriate measures, such as the extension of the contact tracking that we should decide today, as well as an additional weakness, because it is possible for doctors in Austria to print out certificates for the green passport. One adapts the classification of the 3G-rule to the reality, in good German said: in the future, the three evidences of the measures can be treated differently according to the state of science. On the question of 3G at the workplace, we make concrete decisions so that we are prepared there too, there should be a social partnership agreement in this regard. We are extending the target subsidies for municipalities and countries so that appropriate measures are still possible, such as test roads or vaccination roads. In the sense of international solidarity, which has already been criticized by the FPÖ today, we are creating the opportunity to pass on aid from the federal government to other countries before they expire. This makes sense, but I know that the FPÖ may not always be able to start something with international solidarity. We extend the regulation on remote reception via e-medication or e-mail to ensure that sick people have to go to doctors more rarely due to a prescription. We also extend various crisis provisions in the KAKuG or eliminate ambiguities in the MPG. In the course of this – because it always means that we do not listen to the opposition – I would like to make two amendments on the basis of legitimate objections, which have, above all, come from the SPÖ, but also from the FPÖ: [[Quoted print version removed]] For the reasons: On the one hand, we are making a clarification in the Medical Products Act, especially as regards the Ethics Commission and its composition. On the other hand, due to a re-evaluation, it is no longer expected that an extension of the provision of § 81 para. ==References== ==References====External links== On the other hand, I would like to make one more amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] We are very specific about the criticism that we are giving mayors too many opportunities in the fight against epidemic on their own. We can get something out of this. A regionalization of some of the measures makes sense in our view, but if we do so in consultation with the district authorities, it makes sense. Finally, I would like to point out that the best way to fight the pandemic at the moment is to get vaccinated. That's what we see every day on the numbers. I already know that Mr Belakovich is about to come out and probably claim the opposite. [[Abg. Belakovich: What you know!]] If we have a high rate of vaccination, we can end the many, unfortunately necessary measures earlier, we can see this in countries such as Denmark and Norway. Accordingly, it would be simply important to be vaccinated to go to vaccination. I would like to end my appeal for vaccination by reminding the young people in Austria: Please go immune! You too can meet Covid, you too can meet Long Covid. Another note: Dear young people in Austria, from 14 onwards, you can decide for yourself and no longer depend on your parents to decide for you whether you are going to immunize or not. Take advantage of this possibility, be failed than others! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[14:26]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e9259	Mrs Dagmar Belakovich has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e9284	Mr President. My previous speaker, the pharma-lobbyist Schallmeiner, came here and said: Currently 12 000 people are suffering from Covid in Austria and 1 800 are added every day. Mr Schallmeiner, that is absolutely incorrect. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] – Listen, maybe after a year and a half, you’ll learn a little something! At best, 1 800 people are tested positively every day. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] It has nothing to do with whether they are ill. In addition – for colleagues Schallmeiner, who will not remember it again because he wants to leave the hall –: Only 4 percent of the positive Tested ones actually come to the hospital. [[Abg. Soundmeiner: I didn't leave the hall, I'm still in my place!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e9332	Magnificence comes to the fore. Gerhard Kaniak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e9357	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear listeners! Last week we had a very intense meeting in the Health Committee, and one of my previous speakers, Mr Kucher, said: More than 20 applications have been postponed by the government groups, and those agenda items that have now been put into the plenary session – six in number – are summarized under one item in the agenda, so that there is hardly any possibility of actually responding to every single request for each change in law. They are very different. Some of these agenda items are also supported by our group, such as the amendments to the COVID-19 Emissions Grant Act, which is about the extension of the cost of testing in general, or the extension of the operational testing which constitutes its own item on the agenda. This will be seen as positive by us, and we will be introducing a further amendment or amendment today. Other laws, which are to be adopted here today, meet with our clear rejection, such as the already mentioned COVID-19 storage law, which provides that protective equipment and vaccines can be generously donated by the Austrian state. Mr. Federal Minister Mückstein has already announced that vaccines should be donated worth EUR 100 million, although we would need the money for supply in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner]] The problem of this flicking is the different period of time, the complete disproportionateness of the individual measures. There is no red thread in the pandemic control strategy at all – that's what you can't call it. There is no red thread in the pandemic fight by the Federal Government. And whether we can support Mr.Federal Minister Mückstein in that we still get this, I dare almost doubt after several months of in vain attempts. The biggest change, the biggest fragments in the current legislative novels, naturally represent the changes to the Epidemic Act and to the COVID-19 Act. What is happening there, especially in systematics, is really shocking. After more than a year and a half of the crisis and after countless critical remarks also from the Constitutional Service, we have the situation that the Federal Government now wants to extend the Epidemic Law and the COVID-19 Act not only until summer 2022. No, it would also like to have an authorisation to extend this emergency arrangement by a further half a year until the end of 2022 independently and without further consultation by Parliament. This, ladies and gentlemen, we categorically reject. This will not exist with us liberals N. One of the essential reasons why we reject this is that the Epidemic Act and the COVID-19 Act do not contain anything, when the epidemic in Austria has actually ended, and when all these restrictions on freedom have to be terminated. But vice versa, it is quite logical why this is not the case: This would require that we have honest and transparent figures on the basis of which decisions are made. Unfortunately, we still don't have that. We have the situation in Austria since November 2020 that the case figures announced by the Federal Government and the Ages do not correspond to the definition of WHO. Well, you can say, can happen! But of course you can change that. I have pointed out to Mr Mückstein that his predecessor, Mr Anschober, has established something that is not comparable internationally and therefore not standardised. It hasn't changed to this day. But, well, let's keep looking: We do not even know how high our actual beds are in the intensive medical field – still not! This week, a new fact sheet has been published by Gesundheit Österreich GmbH, in which the number of 2 000 in-depth medical beds in force for the first time has now been deviated from the number of 2 000 in-depth medical beds and, interestingly, 2 102 beds have been shown. I have no idea how to get to this figure, nor does it correspond to the health care report published by the Ministry of Health itself, but perhaps we are slowly approaching the actual reality. I hope that this will also be taken into account in the relevant percentage thresholds under the current regulation. The GÖG has already done this. Another interesting aspect is of course also the question of whether someone is in hospital with a Sars-Cov-2 infection, i.e. Sars-Cov-2-positive, or whether he is actually suffering from Covid-19. This has already been noted by my previous speaker, Mr Schalmeiner: There are some who get into the sluggish and confuse apples with pears. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this also makes a big difference in public figures, on the basis of a report from the Director of the Tyrolean State Hospitals last week: He said that this high number of reports of vaccination breakthroughs had to be distinguished from the double-vaccinated patients in the hospital as covidal or coronatiers. There are many who are lying at the intensive care station because of regular operating dates or quite other stories and are not affected by Covid-19 at all. So he explains the bis-to-60 percent rate of covid patients at the intensive care station. Yes, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, you have it black on white! Clearly, we are not able to distinguish who is actually suffering from Covid-19 in our hospitals and who is only in the context of the recording process and routine testing in the Sars-Cov-2 hospital, but is actually not affected by Covid-19. – Mr Minister, would that not be a very essential criterion and a very decisive number to interpret and derive from the situation in the hospital? - I think so. Unfortunately, how you can ignore this completely does not open up to me. Unfortunately, even with the deceased, we still have no clarification. You must imagine: With or after Covid-19 – we could easily clarify it in Austria since the beginning of the crisis by obductions. The Minister of Health – your predecessor, but also the current one – sees no reason to do so. The current figures of Gesundheit Österreich GmbH show that 55 percent of “Covid deaths” were supplied exclusively at the normal station before their death, 30 percent at the intensive care station and that surprisingly 15 percent of Covid deaths were not in hospital treatment at all. I would be new to me that Covid-19 is a disease that spontaneously robs you of life overnight or within a few hours. You usually have a very unsightly path of illness. – Mr Federal Minister, how do you explain that 70 percent had no intensive medical care before they died? I can't explain that to myself. Perhaps we have loud palliative cases, which were affected by Covid-19, which were Sars-Cov-2 positive and were not at all affected by Covid-19. I cannot imagine, however, that 70 per cent of the deceased had not previously received any medical or medical care at all with the available capacities from the health system. So there's something wrong with that. I'd ask you: Look If we have these figures, we may also be able to take reasonable measures from them. Let us come to the measures! I have already mentioned this in the Court of Auditors' report on the budget: We could do much better to address this crisis with effective use of resources. We need these resources in the health field, we need the protection of the risk groups, efficiently and free of charge for those concerned, just as we need early therapeutic measures for Sars-Cov-2-positive people in this country. There would be a lot of measures, Mr Federal Minister, we have already discussed this several times in the Health Committee, and nothing just happens. The people who are tested positively are isolated, still sitting – perhaps only five to ten days instead of seven to 14 days – at home in quarantine and get no medical guidance or care at all, let alone a medical therapy to prevent a potential occurrence of Covid-19 and a severe disease. There's so much! We have approved medicines in Austria with the Budesonide inhalers, which have shown in the studies that they can prevent at least 70 percent of the severe processes when used regularly. You know that from the data of asthmapaists. We have in Austria Ivermectin in the approval that could be used off label. Other countries, such as the Czech Republic, have already done this, have expressed national approvals for this indication, and are already treating across the board with not to mention the international situation: India, the African continent, South Africa and, and. We don't do all of this with us. There is a new WHO recommendation for monoclonal antibodies – a WHO recommendation, Federal Minister, that should normally appear on the To-do list immediately! Casirivimab in combination with Imdevimab, two monoclonal antibodies, which can apparently reduce the risk of severe history and deaths by 50 percent in both early-dose and late-dose patients. Then there are other things: Sotrovimab, another monoclonal antibody preparation with a risk reduction of at least 80 percent that has already been approved in the US and is in Europe shortly before approval, which we could also allow nationally; the first orally available therapeutic in tablet form, Molnupiravir, which is now also included in the MA authorisation and which has not only shown a reduction of at least 70, 80 percent of the severe events in the studies, but also prevented more than 90 percent of the deaths. Mr Federal Minister, these are all therapeutic options that are already available on the market or will be available in the shortest time. I'm looking at it. Your budget or the budget of the Federal Minister of Finance – the health position – and there is nothing for the procurement of these things – nothing! How could that be? That's not how we get out of the crisis. I would ask you to take these suggestions seriously. I can only agree with the request made by Mr Kucher: Fight for a greater share in the budget! Take perhaps the 100 million euros you want to obtain and give to the vaccine again and obtain medicines that the Austrian population needs to prevent serious illness! Take some of the 200 million euros for advertising campaigns of the Federal Government and give You do this to the caregivers, so that they can be paid better and that we may find some additional caregivers! I still have a number of additional budget positions. If we were to end all the restrictions, measures, closures and the like and use the money for medical treatment and caregivers, then we could actually overcome this crisis quickly, without further restrictions on freedom. My final request is therefore: That's the end of the mess! End with this flickering pace of measures that have not proved effective in the final effect! Let us also support our excellent Austrian health system with the appropriate financial resources so that the last trains of this crisis can be completed quickly and successfully! We'll get the Austrian on 26 May. October a day of freedom and end all Covid measures! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e9479	Dr Josef Smolle is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e9503	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the Health Committee, we have dealt with a wide range of issues. But first of all, because it has been addressed, I would like to focus briefly on the subject of medical studies. In Austria, in all international comparison tables, we have one of the highest numbers of doctors, one of the highest levels of medical graduates and also one of the highest numbers in medical studies. This medical study is extremely requested – that is something primarily positive once. In Austria, however, the establishment of the Faculty of Medicine in Linz has already opened the way for 300 further places of study, and the Ministry of Science is under negotiation with the four public locations in Austria, in order to lead to a moderate increase in the number of places of study for the next period of service. That is, we are really well placed internationally. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I would like to refer briefly to the COVID-19 Act, the Epidemic Act, the Health Telecommunications Act, the Medical Products Act and then a little generally to what we have learned so far, what we know at the moment where we are in the Covid Pandemic. To the Epidemic Law and to the COVID-19 Act, there have been some legal changes, especially with regard to the legal handling of quarantine records, which, I believe, is very, very good. The possibility of printing certificates of all three types for their patients has been offered to the doctors, and it has also been possible that: Some measures can also be implemented relatively regionally under appropriate security arrangements, including a recognition of the development of the past 1.5 years. In the Health Telecommunications Act, a point is that the remote recipe, i.e. the one that is transmitted directly to the pharmacy by doctors, is extended for the first time; in particular, that is, to find a seamless transition to the already in the pipeline e-recept within the framework of Elga. In other words, this electronic transmission will be transferred to the regular operation. But what seems to me at least as important is the following: In the Corona Pandemic era, many things were handled in a digital manner, partly from the point of view of the need. Now it is important to reflect exactly what should exist, what is valuable and what framework conditions we need to create so that it can also be used in the future in the interests of patients. There have been rather marginal changes in the Medical Products Act. I would just like to point out, in principle, that the Medical Products Act is relatively new and, in particular, it also guarantees that medical devices used in Austria are safe. On the other hand, it also provides a constructive framework for development, research opportunities and production opportunities in Austria. Now I come to the perhaps most important point, namely: Where are we currently in the pandemic? – Vaccination is such that at present about 65 percent of the total population has been vaccinated in us, and the adult population is 75 percent. That's not little. The EU average is currently 80 percent. How has this affected so far? – In January of this year, 2.3 percent of all positively tested Covid-19 carriers died. That's a lot. The most impressive success for me is that this value has now fallen from 2.3 percent to 0.5 percent. This is due to the fact that the high-risk patients, the old and high-age people, are largely protected. It is known that the vaccinations cum grano salis protect 90 percent from severe diseases. We know that in the course of half a year, three-quarters of the year, vaccination is slowing down. This is not unusual, even with Diphtheria and FSME there is a two-plus-one scheme, that is: two vaccinations in a row, and then with a distance of half a three-quarters to one year a booster vaccination. We know that genes are well protected and that their protection is a little slower. The Ultimo is to be healed and once vaccinated. There has always been a question of what it is about the so-called herd taking union. That's a word I don't use, because it comes from cattle farming around 1900. I'm talking about population immunity. For when it is achieved, one cannot set a hundred percent. You can only say one thing: As long as the disease continues to spread, we have not yet reached population immunity. On the other hand, however, the slowing effect of this spreading immunological protection is already clearly noted. In addition, a small comparison: Last month, the number of infected people we had per day or in the seven-day average has remained largely the same, even by 8 percent, sometimes going up a little. For comparison: In the same period of the previous year, the number of infected persons increased by 70 percent. That means we already notice a clear brake in the spread. All in all, I can say: I am still on the path of careful optimism. As far as the therapies are concerned, it is like this: In the case of manifest illness, there is intensive research from the beginning. The data situation for most of them – including the above mentioned therapies – is still rather modest. Unfortunately, some of the hypotheses that have originally been hyptosed have proved to be little effective. That means we have to keep together, see that we control the spread, that we get well over the winter. Again: Careful optimism and solidarity. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e9579	The word is now power. Gerald Loacker reported. Please, honourable Member. – Ladies and gentlemen, if you allow me to make a brief statement. [[14:46:29]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e9603	I announce that the request 3/US supported by at least 46 Members on the establishment of an investigation committee pursuant to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure on ‘Clarification of corruption accusations against members of the ÖVP (ÖVP Corruption Committee)’. This is in accordance with § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure to all Members. I also have five Members, according to § 33 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. This debate will take place after the agenda has been completed. The assignment of the request to the Committee for Rules of Procedure shall be made in accordance with § 33 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure at the end of this sitting. [[Complaints with SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] [[14:47:20]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e9639	The word is now power. Gerald Loacker reported. Please, sir, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e9664	Thank you, Mr President. It has paid off to be able to wait a little for the announcement of this message in front of us. I am looking forward to the ÖVP-corruption committee. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The agenda items that are being negotiated under one are being extended to include several Covid measures, interestingly at quite different deadlines. One goes on until October, the other until March and the other until June – all of this has no concept and no red thread, I would say now. If you look for the red thread, you won't find it. An interesting question was raised by the Social Democratic Group in the Committee, which was asked: Why do the operational tests run until the end of October – the Republic costs a test 10 euros – and the free tests in the pharmacies – then the Republic costs a test 25 euros – until the end of March next year? That's where the Minister said: That's what we need to look at. – I wasn’t happy with this, because if the request goes down, I don’t have to look at it, then I have to vote for it. The majority groups were unable to explain logically why one is running until the end of October 2021 and the other until the end of March 2022. I don't know yet. What I already know is that you should have agreed on this for a long time. In Germany, the tests have been feeable since this week, in Switzerland since the beginning of the month, and in Italy they are also chargeable. With us, however, the pharmacy tests are free until March 2022. With all appreciation for the pharmacy profession: Some deserve a golden nose. Calculate once: 25 Euro per test – you only have to do 100, 130 tests a day in a small pharmacy and have a nice additional income. They are granted it, but it is at the expense of taxpayers. What's missing is a way out of pandemic mode out into normality. How do we get back from this coronapanic mode into a health policy and economic normality? When is it enough? When do we, Mr Smolle, have so many vaccines and so many genes that it is enough and we can live on again normally? Of course, if the FPÖ had made it like the liberals in the district of Rudolfsheim-Fünfhaus and had called for vaccination, then of course we would be a bit further. It was also discussed that Austria gives excess doses to other countries. – It is good to pass on these to countries in need before the expiry date is reached, but how these countries are selected does not open up to me. Thus, the dictatorship in Iran receives a million doses, while liberal democratic China, the Republic of Taiwan, does not receive anything from Austria – but very probably from Slovakia, for example, something has gotten from Lithuania, but not from Austria. So the dictatorships get something and the friends in the liberal democracies get nothing. - Okay, that's what the Foreign Minister is responsible for, who has now become Federal Chancellor, but we're going to ask him that on occasion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e9721	Now Bedrana Ribo is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e9742	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the screens! I can speak today about a change to the COVID-19 Act. Thus, in all professions where physical contact with other persons cannot be excluded, a 3G proof will be required – in short: 3G at work. But I'll start a little different: We are lucky in Austria to live in a country where there is enough vaccine – not everyone has this happiness. I'm a native Bosnian and I know, for example, that there's not enough vaccine there. I could see in the summer what it means not to be vaccinated: I could see how people were standing in the snake for hours in the bright sun in order to make themselves known for a vaccination, I could also see how people scratched their last money together and drove to Belgrade or Croatia to have themselves vaccinated there. And I could also see the happiness and relief of some people who were then called by the health authorities who were told that they could get a vaccination. We in Austria have all the possibilities, each and every one of us can be vaccinated, there is the possibility of being tested at every corner. Our common goal must be to combat this pandemic, not just ourselves. to protect, but also to protect our fellow human beings and our colleagues. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think this regulation is important and correct. Please think of the selfless people in the health and care sector! They have consistently enforced this from the very beginning. Let's think of all these employees at the Covid stations, at the intensive care stations, which, despite vaccinations, are in full Montur daily for their patients, protect their patients, protect us all! It is only out of solidarity with these people, only out of solidarity with the heroes of this pandemic, that it must be of course for us to help and take real responsibility. Again my appeal: Therefore, take advantage of the privilege we have in Austria! Not everyone has this privilege. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e9791	Next speaker is Mag.a Verena Nussbaum. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e9815	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! I will speak today about the operational testing and the aim grant law. I would like to mention positively that the cost of testing for the countries and for the municipalities, for telephone health advice and also the additional burden on rescue and health transport services will be extended by the end of March 2022. Although the testing possibilities for pharmacies and public test roads are extended, it does not deny any logic why the operational testing – Mr Loacker has already mentioned this – should only be financially supported by the end of October – until now you have been guilty of an answer; perhaps one – in view of the fact that you, Mr. Minister, now have the power to implement the 3G regulation for the workplace. The support that we now provide to the countries with the Objective Grant Act – let it go further – will be necessary for the countries on the topic of care but also in the future, because the Corona pandemic has clearly shown us – and for those for whom it has not yet been clear, I believe, it will become sunny at the latest – that there is an emergency in Austria. The Federal Government has once again been an announcement world champion in the field of care, but nothing is yet to be seen from the major reform of the care system – and nothing is planned in the budget for the coming year. However, we cannot afford to do it anymore, as we are waiting for it, so today I am submitting a proposal which provides for concrete measures on how to end the care emergency in Austria. First: Instead of nine different systems, we need a federal care system with which we can ensure high quality of care. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to our long-required care guarantee fund: The care is to be financed from a pot. The national benefits and the care billions that we require are to come in, because only in this way can care services be provided free of charge in the future. Thirdly, and this is an essential point in combating the lack of staff in the care sector. This requires a training offensive. Talking from 100 000 additional care and care staff up to 2030. At present, care facilities cannot prove all the beds because the necessary caregivers are missing. We urgently need to improve training, namely by providing remuneration and a job guarantee, even during the course of our studies, similar to those of police students. In order to make jobs more attractive so that caregivers can not only work for a short period of time in this profession, but also in the longer term, better working conditions – above all a reduction in working time and a sixth week of holiday – are indispensable for all. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e9904	Ladies and gentlemen! You have explained very clearly why this request is important to you, but there is no comprehensible link to the COVID-19 issue grant law and you have not been able to establish this connection from the speaker's desk either. I cannot therefore accept this motion for a resolution on this debate. Mrs. Ing. Mag.a Alexandra Tanda. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e9929	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and at home in front of the screens! Since the beginning of the pandemic, i.e. for 20 months, the Federal Government has been providing a target grant for the expenses incurred to the countries and to the municipalities. This includes, among other things, the cost replacement for protective equipment, the telephone health shotline, the infrastructure, the emergency hospitals and especially for the vaccination routes and the maintenance of test possibilities. And even in the case of rescue and medical transport services, the additional burden due to the Covid-19 editions has still been high and not even insignificant. Additional expenditure due to increased staff needs, due to the need for special hygiene and disinfection, must be borne by itself, and thus, in part, significant costs arise, for which public support must also be provided by the public authorities in order to ensure high-quality rescue and health transport. In the first half of 2021 alone, from January to July, the Federal Government has paid around 148 million euros under the Objective Grant Act to the countries and municipalities. Especially in the crisis, it has been shown that these investments, which are necessary to combat the pandemic, are essential. The economy has recovered thanks to this and other measures, the unemployment rate has fallen to the pre-crisis level and the segregation decisions have fallen. And we, we enjoy events again, celebrate and rejoice. But the epidemiological event is not yet over, it's back on the rise, and winter is at the doorstep. [[Abg. Belakovich: Where does it rise?]] We are again spending more time in interiors, and we are also becoming more negligent in the distance measures and in the hygiene measures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] The necessary rate of vaccination has still not been achieved; as Dr. Smolle said, we are currently about 65 percent. This is precisely why we must continue to apply the best methods of control and the federal aid until 31. March 2022, because otherwise, the story of the last winter is repeated, and we do not want to do so together with certainty. [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] The need to extend the existing time-limits for Covid-19 measures has a very simple reason that these grants from federal funds are even more necessary: The pandemic's not over yet. Even if some media want to spread other stories and myths – all pre-fired by the FPÖ – and sell us everything would be over, it is important for me to stress here again: The pandemic is not over. Therefore, the country of Tyrol has launched a country campaign against Coronamyths. Experts from the Innsbruck Clinic and the Innsbruck Medical University clear up with false information. I'd like to get out of here a myth: “Some claim that you cannot suffer from a strong immune system” – if you see it that way – and that is definitely wrong. [[a panel on which to read the text of this claim and the text of the corresponding corrective position and to see a photo of the university professor referred to below, pointing to the speaker's desk]] “Right is” – and I quote the extraordinary university professor Dr.in Judith Löffler-Ragg of the University Hospital for Internal Medicine Innsbruck –: “In individual cases, it cannot be predicted who reacts like to a covid infection. Severe disease rates are also increasing in younger people. On the other hand, targeted protection by the Covid vaccination is most effective – also for young people. We will not get our usual life back until we increase our vaccination rate massively, as my colleague Dr. Smolle has already said. As long as we as a community – and not the individual, but we as a community – do not achieve this, we need to take accompanying measures such as the federal aid to the countries and spend funds. These resources could be used with absolute certainty elsewhere. Therefore: Please go immune!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e9984	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek spoke on business treatment. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e10011	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The in-depth brackets – and please perhaps you can also come up with the protocol and think about it. It was the rejection of this motion for a resolution once more – the aim grant law. The aim grant law to combat the pandemic is – logically – negotiated with the countries and is to be negotiated with the countries. And the colleague said - I quote from her speech - that's why I meant it would be good to perhaps read the Minutes again: The support we provide to the countries with the Objective Grant Act would also be necessary and of utmost relevance for the countries in the future. That is to say, on the one hand, fighting the pandemic by means of the Objective Grant Act, but of course also combating the care emergency. We see that this bracket is here, and I ask you to consider once again whether this motion for a resolution by Mrs Nussbaum could not be approved.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e10038	Mrs Colleague, I understand your argument, but with this argument – with the financial resources we use here – one could also cover all the topics. So if perhaps Mr Stöger, who will also speak, manages to establish a somewhat closer context, then it is likely that the request will also be accepted. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek nodds.]] I am not doing this from jux and tollery, but because we have agreed in the presidency that we want to take the concept a little closer and also want to motivate us to make even more efforts to establish this context. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek no longer agrees.]] I'm asking for understanding. Perhaps it is even possible that Mr Stöger's report is a little deeper. It would then have to be a new request, which can be formally submitted, but the text can be identical. It is now possible to speak. Gerald Hauser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e10086	Mr President. Estimated Minister! High house! It is also a problem for spectators to follow the debate because today we are discussing a bouquet of requests under one and therefore the allocations are not easy. So it would be better if we did not have to discuss all the requests in the context of a debate, but separately, then the allocation would be better possible. - So far to the previous speakers. I myself am referring to the extension of free testing and, in particular, to the operational testing. I would like to argue, as you know, facts-based, and I may argue to you today and here (a panel with the inscriptions “CDC Centers for Disease Control and Prevention”, “Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) 6. On August 21, 2021, ‘Outbreak of SARS-COV-2 Infections...’, ‘https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/70/wr/mm7031e2.htm’, an Internet address is announced. ==References====External links== On August 21, 2021, they were kept in their weekly report and found that double-vaccinations can infect Covid-19 and, of course, can pass on this virus. Mr Smolle, I've had that since 6. It is also known to you and to the Ministry of Health. That means you've actually known since 6. August that twice-vaccinated can pass on the virus and pick it up. What did you do? – At this time, you have held a discussion about the abolition of free testing – completely illogical! – and you have fired a narrative that is very dangerous. They have given the impression that people who have twice vaccinated are free that they cannot catch the virus, that they cannot pass it on, so to speak, that they have the normal life back. That was the conceiting of false facts, and that really hurts us. You know exactly – since 6. August you need to know – that this is not the case from a scientific point of view, and yet you have “put in” people who have not been vaccinated until then with this argument into the vaccination – under quotation marks – because many people have said: Well, if the free tests run out – I can't afford that – then I have to have myself vaccinated, whether I want to or not! – That was probably the background of your story, but not the scientific facts, because from a scientific point of view, you know – and I consciously take this board, which I also used in my last speech – that the Ages recorded and found that in the calendar weeks 33 to 36, i.e. from mid-August to mid-September, in the age group of over 60-year-olds there were 53.45 percent vaccinations. [[A panel with the label ‘Impact breakthroughs’, placing the logo of the Ages and a table on the speaker’s desk]] That is, of people in this age group who had the virus, more than half were vaccinated twice, you know. Do you know what's interesting and what from my point of view is a real scandal? – I presented these arguments at the last National Council meeting. What happened? – You have not changed your policy, but have deleted these facts from the page of the Ages. That is, as a Freedom Party, we show facts that you publish, that hurts you – and what do you do? – Delete, censor. [[Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] It is incredible that information of the Ages will be censored in this Republic just because they do not fit into the political narrative of the government parties. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Minister, I expect you to tell me how this could happen. [[Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! Incredible! Gerald! Unbelievable is the stupid thing that he's gnawing there!]] Mr Minister, something else: They are always in good contact with Israel, including the Israeli Prime Minister. I'm allowed for you from the cabinet meeting of Prime Minister Bennett on 22 February. ==References====External links== What did Prime Minister Bennett say at this cabinet meeting? – Dear Franz Hörl, be careful and listen to this! Not Gerald Hauser says that, but he, I quote: The most dangerous group are the twice-vaccinated ones because they believe they are protected with two vaccines. They do not register that the vaccination is eroded. – Quote Bennett, recorded in the minutes of the government meeting. You know that, too. Why transport You're running this narrative? If you don't want to announce a day of freedom that the Freedom Party will have for the 26th. It is logical and plausible for free testing to continue on October. What is not logical and plausible – and that has already been mentioned by previous speakers today – is that the operational tests, which are the cheapest and also the most pleasant for employees, because they can be tested in operation, only continue until the end of October. Mr Minister, we have had this discussion in the Health Committee, we have addressed you and you have said that you will ask questions. Did you ask yourself if that was changed, or what does it look like now? We will definitely continue to help you in this regard. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] You can agree today and here to a sensible thing that is good for the employees who are good for the businesses, and we repair a government template that is not good. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to say something that is very important to us. Since you don't want the day of freedom – we want this day of freedom – let's look at another country: What does the Croatian President say? – The Croatian President says: 42 percent of the vaccination rate is sufficient. [[The speaker put an article from the “Kronen Zeitung” with the title “42 percent vaccinated Croatians according to the President’s “genuine” on the speaker’s desk.]] Now the Croatian President doesn't fit you, I'm clear, but he says that. This hysteria must finally be over. I quote: ‘Croatian President [...] Milanović does not seek large-scale immunity. He makes the media responsible for the alleged ‘Covid hysteria’.” He is not wrong in the matter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] I keep quoting. He says: “To completely eliminate the virus is not possible. We have to live with this risk. People everywhere die because of other serious diseases, and we talk about nothing but Covid.” – That’s what the Croatian President says. We really have to start changing the narratives at last. Covid-19's here. Anyone in Austria who wanted to be vaccinated – we stand for vaccination – has the freedom of vaccination, had the chance, but please stop forcing and pushing our citizens into vaccinations! This contradicts the Constitution, which also contradicts the freedom of personal decision to be for or against vaccinations. You know, of course, people who are double vaccinated can also suffer from Covid-19. You know that! I brought an example from Israel last time: Science, the science magazine, reported that there were 59 percent of the people suffering from Covid-19 who had been twice vaccinated. We also know this from Austrian hospitals: At the Uniklinik Innsbruck, the quota permanently commutes between 50 percent plus/minus. [[Call the ÖVP: Completely stupid! That's not true!]] Finally, I quote the World Health Organization. The WHO Director for Europe says that vaccination will not end the pandemic, it needs alternative methods. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] Mrs Belakovich will be happy to address our Plan B in her speech. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Prince: She knows herself!]] [[15:16]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e10280	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. Martina Diesner-Wais is now reported in the word. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e10307	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! Dear viewers in front of the televisions! Covid is still accompanying us. Mr Hauser, you have said a lot here, and one thing is certain: The vaccination does not protect 100 percent, everyone knows that, but it is the best possible protection. Mr Smolle has also discussed the fact that, after some time, vaccination will be reduced, and, of course, in older people, it will be much faster, which is why it will be possible to get back to disease. If you quote the Croatian president who says 42 percent of the vaccination rate is enough, I say: We in Austria should rely better on our immunologists and science. We're safer. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] As you have already mentioned, we are extending many things today, including testing, both testing in the pharmacies and operational testing, and if necessary, of course it will be extended further. I think that with these extensions, short intervals are useful so that you can always check how long something is still necessary. But above all, I would like to talk about the change to the COVID-19 storage law. Spring 2020 has shown us how essential a crisis supply is. When it comes to bottlenecks, it is important to have a camp. We could already find out: If global demand becomes stronger, there will be bottlenecks in the various areas. Only when a warehouse is available can it be guaranteed that the necessary amount of protective equipment and medical materials is available. If there are failures, we cannot supply our public health system. We know about the need to have protective equipment for doctors and caretakers so that they can protect themselves best and do not suffer what would endanger the system. In Austria, the German army has taken over the procurement, the administration, the storage and also partly the extradition. That was good and that's good! That is why we are extending this regulation until 31.12.2022. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Since we want to operate the storage business in a economical, efficient and economical way, we also want to become a little more flexible. This means that before they expire, things can also be delivered both domestically and abroad, either free of charge or free of charge, whether they are neighbourhood aid, development aid or health policy aspects. I would also like to take this opportunity today to thank especially the members of the Federal Government for the exemplary services they have provided for us and our people in Covid times. They were actually everywhere: You're at Companies in which employees were in the hospital, as well as in the test roads and the vaccination streets, and of course they were also in charge of assistance to our district authorities, as well as in border controls. I would like to thank you very much for this. I may conclude with a call to those who have not yet been vaccinated and have the opportunity to: Let's get the fuck out of here!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e10370	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Dagmar Belakovich. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e10395	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! Yes, this is about the Covid-19 measures, and I begin with a motion for a resolution which I would like to make: [[Quoted print version removed]] What sounds so technical here, ladies and gentlemen, means: We want to put an end to the corona measures for Austria – we want to do so as many other European countries already live, for example in Great Britain, Sweden, Ireland, Norway and Denmark. Denmark is a country that has already announced in April that if all adults have a vaccination offer – have a vaccination offer! – the measures are to be dropped. In Austria too, everyone has a vaccination offer, and anyone who wants to accept this vaccination has probably already done it or can do it at any time, ladies and gentlemen. But what happens in Austria? – In the last few days Corona has not been a subject because the Austrian People's Party had been bubbling; the message control was exposed and suddenly no human talked about Corona, about the ach such deadly disease. Today, the Austrian People's Party is trying to get back a little bit of a kick, and it is panicking again, ladies and gentlemen. The Austrians are already used to it, they are overcrowded with panic news. There's hardly a medium that doesn't fall into it, ladies and gentlemen. Interesting will also be – and we are currently calculating – how many of the studies that have been published in the last few weeks and months, because actually were commissioned by the Karmasin Institute. How many of these studies have actually been freezed afterwards? Ladies and gentlemen, just a few days ago, just before the house searches, there was a study by the Karmasin Institute, which said: The people who have been vaccinated want them to be tormented a lot more! – So it's not my experience. It may have been that some in the ÖVP would have liked to have done so, but that is certainly not the case in the population. There are also television advertising in Austria – you will know all of this – as a doctor turns himself and explains: I have been in intensive care and have been working for many years; I usually handle heart attack and accident victims, but now the 25-year-olds are in intensive care! – Well, you can say that in Austria, because we don’t have the number transparency that way. But let us look at Germany, which is certainly comparable: How many among 27-year-olds are in the Federal Republic of Germany at the moment – namely, stand 11. October – at an intensive care station? – These are words in Germany and write 44 people. Conversion to Austria would mean: 4.4 people – 4.4 people below 27 in intensive care stations, but we do not yet know which prediseases these people have, which is the reason why they are on intensive care stations. Your building, which you have been so beautiful in the last 19 months, is beginning to crumble gradually, and there can be deleted on the Ages homepage, which wants to always new numbers, always new insights penetrate. Look at a very recent press article – Mr. Kaniak has already explained it –: It looks completely different. Because we see that only 30 percent of the deceased are in an intensive care unit. All the others who died in Corona or with Corona were not at an intensive care station at all. The question then arises: What was the cause of death? If someone is so seriously ill with Corona, he'll probably come to the intensive care station. But it's 36 percent, and we still don't know about this 36 percent – a little more than a third – that actually died at an intensive care station or with Corona: How many of these people had severe prediseases? How many of these 36 percent, of those people who died at an intensive care station with or at Corona, would have landed at an intensive care station anyway? How many have only been infected there? This too is a big topic! We put all these questions in this House, we put them to the predecessor of the current Minister, we ask them to this Minister – we have not received any answers to this day. There are no answers, and there is no number transparency, because if there were to be number transparency, similar to that in other European countries, then one would immediately recognize this panic policy, starting from the former Federal Chancellor about the health ministers, fired by the flex in the Austrian Federal Government, by the Interior Minister; he fights it like a flex if the people do not comply with the corona measures. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, that wouldn't have been possible. The message control in this country has made it possible to buy all the media so that they send exactly this advertising and report exactly what is appropriate for the story of this federal government. Now not only is the system just a little imploded, no, even this whole corona policy of this federal government will be imploded; we are standing there. When Mr Smolle comes here and says that the figures are in about constant, sometimes they even fall, but some others from the Austrian People's Party go out after that and say that the numbers are rising constantly, then you see what happened: that Members do not even listen to their colleagues, who actually report from the hospital area, that it is slow at the end of the day. We therefore call for finally to end with all this corona madness that you have had to impose on the Austrians for 19 months. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] It must be done by driving a rope into our population, driving a rope between our children. Our children are sorted in vaccines and non-vaccinations: The unvaccinated children have to be tested every day or every second day, and the vaccinated get a golden pickerl, ladies and gentlemen. That must be done! We want it to be on the 26th. October everything is lifted – as a day of freedom, as a return to our normality, ladies and gentlemen! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] After 19 months of senseless quailery, the Austrians deserved this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[15:27]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e10609	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore also under negotiation. Mr Wolfgang Mückstein spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e10638	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! Because the budget has already been discussed today – it has already been on the agenda – I would like to say a few words about the budget as far as my area is concerned. The topic of poverty reduction: The Federal Government has put in place a number of emergency measures to address the social consequences of the pandemic. The current figures on social assistance and minimum insurance show us that we have been successful with this path of rapid support. However, we assume that the social consequences of the pandemic will continue to exist, and therefore there will also be additional means to break down this special directive on Covid-19 poverty reduction – 2 million euros; [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] EU, international, seniors, volunteers – 37 million euros, of which 8 million euros for the prevention of immigration and housing, 4 million euros for the prevention of violence and 3 million euros for the prevention of extremism. Health: Of course, the fight against the pandemic remains central, and this is also reflected in the budget. There will be additional funding for corona measures of 1.27 billion euros, but also for the suspension of the health and mental consequences of the pandemic, concrete 13 million euros for child and youth psychology. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For the children and young people, mental stress at this time was particularly high due to school closures and because they could not meet their friends. Already before Corona, our health system faced challenges, for example because of the medical shortage already mentioned today, especially with regard to the care of doctors in rural areas. We therefore want to advance the expansion of primary supply using EU funds. We have recently received 100 million euros from the EU Resilience Fund. We are in the process of drawing up the conditions for support and expect the first payments for strengthening the primary supply level in Austria in the first quarter of 2022. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Thematic care: Care and care are among the biggest social challenges in the coming decades, due to their overall social significance – this has already been addressed today. This is also taken into account in the government programme, which gives the highest priority to ensuring decent and high-quality care and support for people in need of care and their members and provides for a number of measures in this area. A first and concrete step towards a comprehensive care reform is taken by the Federal Government with the financial support of trainees in the field of care and social care professions. To this end, a total of EUR 150 million for the years 2022 to 2024 will be made available in addition to the payments already available for the care sector. Furthermore, for the Communitynursing pilot project over the years 2022 to 2024, around 50 million euros are budgeted from the EU's reconstruction fund. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Communitynurses will promote public health skills in the context of low, demand-oriented and population-based access. They will help to improve the well-being and thus ensure that To encourage and enable older people in their own home, not least by strengthening the self-help of those affected and their families. In addition, the financial basis for the extension of the care fund was established. Over the next two years, around EUR 900 million will be available for the further expansion of social services and quality assurance. At the same time, the Federation is committed to setting up further positive incentives so that caregivers and caregivers can remain in the profession in the long term. At present, the Ministry of Health is preparing for the implementation of additional projects in coordination with the countries. Now very briefly to Corona, this has already been mentioned several times: Today we have an incidence of 142,1, a slightly lower bedding in the intensive care stations, we have been holding back for about a month at 10 percent ICU occupancy. But this – that is, this four-week side-by-side movement – should not be deceiving that the fourth wave is certainly not over. In view of the school tests which have been very well started, we have now, due to the 3G regulation, which has only been in force in many areas since May and, of course, continues to apply, but not least because of the weather, we have had a lateral movement which has not allowed us to continue to increase in the intensive care stations. That is, of course, positive. In the near future, 70 percent of the impregnable population in Austria will be vaccinated twice – another important step. That is, it is in all our interest to force the vaccination. I think it is also well-perceptible that the advertising strategy, the advertising measures have been intensified and adapted. A target group-specific application, an age-specific application, I hope we will get a good deal further – with the support of all the political groups here in the house if I ask you to do so. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have finally had enough vaccine in Austria since July. Since then, we have been able to administer almost 11 million vaccines. Worldwide, more than 6.5 billion vaccines have been administered. This is, as I believe, an incredible performance, one of the largest and the largest vaccination campaign ever in the world. The current figures show that vaccination this year can already prevent more than 12 000 hospital stays and more than 3,700 deaths in Austria. In order to maintain this protection even in the coming winter, it is now particularly important to focus our focus on the third dose. The current studies and scientific findings show us that these boost vaccinations are particularly important for the elderly. Together with the federal states, we have already been able to execute 148,932 third vaccinations in the last few weeks, and we have concentrated especially on the old-age and care homes and also on the medical staff. Yesterday alone, 8 849 third doses were administered. I would therefore like to thank the federal states, the responsible, the executives, the many employees in the federal states very much for this performance. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] In the coming weeks, it will be a matter of convincing as many people as possible in Austria of the corona vaccination in order to further increase the vaccination rate. Who is with the third trick – very important – now? – These are mainly people from 65 onwards, high-risk patients, health and care staff, kindergartens and schools, as well as all those who have not yet received an MRNA vaccine (i) have been given the right to be able to We will send a personal letter of information to all of us, and we will also focus in our communication on the important information on the third vaccination. If we were there a year ago without vaccination, today we have enough vaccine for all and can offer the best possible protection from the corona virus to all people in our country. If we were there a year ago without a long-term perspective in the fight against the pandemic, we have the solution in our hands today. It is a victory for science and for our society, we use this opportunity together! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I can now come to Agenda item 7, Objective Grant Act. The Ministry of Health has worked intensively in recent weeks with the involvement of numerous experts in the further pandemic management measures. We have come to the conclusion that an extension of the target subsidies is necessary, for example for vaccinations, rescue operations, but also protective equipment. The continuation of the free tests is also planned for the next time. With today's decision, we want to create a uniform framework to enable this. The final date for the free delivery of the living room tests remains, as already announced, the 31st. October. Of course, ongoing evaluation of all measures will continue to take place and future adjustments will be possible at any time. On agenda item 10, Fernrecept: This is of course a special concern to me, I have still experienced this in the ordination myself. It was true at the time that especially at the beginning, not necessarily necessary contacts of patients with doctors should be reduced. It turned out then that one can maintain the operation with faxes, with calls. Since then, recipes can also be presented to patients without a doctor's visit – the so-called remote recipe. Patients who participate in Elga receive the prescription via Elga, via e-medication, patients who do not participate in Elga receive the prescription via e-mail. This scheme would expire at 31.12.2021, but due to the current situation of the pandemic, it is expected to expire until 31. ==References====External links== Through the pandemic, there has been an innovation boost in the field of medicine, which I very much welcome. For operational testing, I would like to say: We are currently voting to carry out the operational testing on the 31st. In October, it will be possible to make it possible to do so. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e10773	Next speaker is Mrs Mag. Elisabeth Scheucher-Pichler. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e10797	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister has now clarified a number of things about the budget and also about the pandemic. I would, however, like to begin by thanking Mrs Bures for the Pink Ribbons you have put on the table today. I really think this is a very nice gesture. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] It's almost everyone wearing the Pink Ribbon when I look at it like that – the men didn't get such a nice thing, but that's right. I am particularly pleased that we have been supporting this important preventive action of Austrian cancer aid for many, many years, across party borders, even in the countries – these are always great initiatives. I would not only like to see those women who have been here today and who have visited us, but also to wish all the others concerned, all who are ill, good healing, much strength and all the good. [[It was in favour of ÖVP and Greens, as well as of SPÖ representatives.]] Ladies and gentlemen, yes, the pandemic is not over. Mr Kaniak, she is not at the end – the Federal Minister has also referred to it – this is simply a fact, and therefore it is also necessary to extend existing Covid-19 measures. Winter is coming, everything has to be done to prevent infections. Nobody wants a lockdown again. And when I say it especially from the point of view of seniors: We want normality as soon as possible! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Especially the older generation wants it and needs it so urgently. The fact is, however, that vaccination helps against a serious course. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Hauser.]] Mr Hauser, that is a fact. And I'm really appealing to the older generation, too: When it comes to the third trick, tell the doctor, the doctor of your trust! I think it's all about it. No one's being forced. Get in touch! It's about building trust, it's about security. [[Abg. Belakovich: Of course there is a... Force!]] It is also important that we take measures today to ensure that the vaccination certificate and other testing possibilities that the countries bring into the boat as important regional partners, or continue to keep in mind, in order to keep in mind the infection situation – Agenda items 7 and 8, the Federal Minister has already responded to this. Yeah, one more time. All of this is particularly important, even from the point of view of the seniors, who are the most vulnerable group and especially at risk, but also, and I would like to stress that, with a particularly good example, have progressed and progressed, because in this group the vaccination rate is really very high. I also appeal to the grandparents: Talk to the children, but also to the grandchildren! I think it's very important that we talk to the youth. It is very often about building trust. In the discussions, I always note that the reason why the vaccination is not taken is often a bit careless. The extension of the e-medication to be decided on is also important, as the Federal Minister has referred to it. This allows patients to redeem a prescription without personally entering the medical practice. The social security number can be used as an unbureaucratic medicine throughout Austria – Agenda item 10, which is just this possibility of the prescription exhibition without a doctor's visit, the remote recipe that lasts until 30. ==References== But then, that has already been mentioned, it should go into the electronic recipe, which has already been put on track and developed in the context of Elga before Corona. I would like to say very briefly about a pilot project by doctors, but also about pharmacies that are very involved, which is currently in Carinthia. It is currently taking place in the Wolfsberg district and in the Volksmarkt district and is very well accepted. The evaluation is currently under way, there are still some problems at the interface, because it is more about software problems, and you are now looking for optimization steps. I believe that this is a very, very good thing, because it is a valuable relief for patients with prediseases, chronic illness with permanent medication, as well as for older people and people with disabilities. Finally, I would like to congratulate the elderly, because they have learned and been very committed to digitization in the last one and a half years. Especially in order to avoid loneliness there are many possibilities when you have a smartphone, if you know yourself in the digital field, but also in terms of security, it is important in the care – the emergency phone; there are many new possibilities, I have referred to it before – but also in the medical field. It has all been involved in this area, really everyone, across the party borders, and I think it is very important that we engage in it. In Carinthia, the Senior Federation, together with the Young ÖVP, we initiated the project to look together and explained the smartphone and digital possibilities in small groups, where there is no brake threshold. But we do not leave anyone behind – the Federal Minister has already said it: There is also the recipe in paper form. It is important that we do not push anyone at the edge, because there are also people who do not make it or who do not want it anymore, and we also have the appropriate support for them. Finally, my appeal: Let us consider each other, let us look at each other, try to get through this crisis with confidence. And above all – and this I wish us all very much –: Stay healthy!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e10860	The next speaker is Mr Alois Stöger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e10881	Mr President. Mr. Health Minister! High house! Mr. Federal Minister, not even since Pope Gregor there is a calendar in Austria. We know how the year is developing, and we know when school starts. We know when the winter season is coming, and we also know that some organizations and institutions need time to implement real health protection in the companies. Today, a desperate manager of Magna International called me in the morning and asked me: Mr Stöger, do you know what the government wants to do now, because I have to prepare it? – Mr Federal Minister, the biggest problem in dealing with the Epidemic Act and dealing with the Covid-19 Act is that we have changing rules so quickly that the institutions cannot focus on them. I say this very, very clearly: If one had longer-term rules and if one had a little sensitivity not only for the headline, but also for the implementation of a law, a regulation in daily practice, then we would have fewer rules – that would be efficient. Meanwhile, every Austrian, every Austrian, says: I don't know myself anymore! – Therefore, they no longer have any confidence in the measures to be taken. The SPÖ has always said: We recommend, in consultation with the doctor, the vaccine with the doctor, because we are convinced that it is the lower risk. At the last meeting of the Health Committee, we have experienced the following: The rulers have set four different deadlines for Covid-19 measures. The Covid-19 Act is expected to be adopted until 30. The Minister has the possibility of extending it by regulation for a further half a year. This is actually very, very delicate – we don't want it. Second: You have the purpose grant law with the remote recipe and all the drums up to the 31st. ==References== I wonder, Why not until 30. June? You have the exemption of pregnant women until the 31st century. ==References== Forward: Why not – if you think Corona takes so long – until 30. June? And now I come to the point: You have the operating testing law until the 31st century. October extended – by one month! Today, if I see it correctly, the 12. - the 13th already. [[Abg. Belakovich: The 13th!]] So the law will only enter into force and be in force for a few days. That can't be right, and that's why people despair. Mr Federal Minister, I would support your request and therefore table an amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] You only need to convince your greens that they agree, and your goal is achieved. If you do, we will also agree with the amendments to the Epidemic Act or the COVID-19 Act, because we believe that this is regulated and we can give people real security, which will then also work in the business practice. Mr President, because you asked me to say something more about the Funding Act: The Objective Grant Act is a law under the Financial Constitution Act with which the Federal Government provides funds for its tasks to the countries and communities. That's what we do, and that's due to Covid-19. In the spring of 2020, we saw that Covid-19's greatest burden had on people in the care, those who worked in nursing homes. It took a very long time for the Federal Government to launch measures to support care. If we want to deal with the situation of the pandemic, we have to meet the visible care emergency through Covid-19. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There have been many stations that have been closed because there have been no trained people in charge of these stations. I would also like to remind you that Covid-19 has just made this abuse visible. In this sense, I say clearly once again: We also need this grant for care. We see a very clear link here, because we also have the objective grant law on the agenda. I would ask you to allow the request made by Mr Kucher, Mrs Nussbaum. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[15:53]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e10989	Mr deputies, you have now argued why this request is acceptable from your point of view. I can follow this argument. However, you should have tabled the proposal again. Maybe she can still make Mag.a cup. It must be reintroduced so that it is permitted. If that doesn't work out, perhaps a speaker can make a brief statement. Then it goes out. I can add that the amendment you have tabled is sufficiently supported, properly introduced, and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Ruth Becher has now come to speak. If the request does not go into time, perhaps a colleague or a colleague may be able to report and re-submit the request. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e11016	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Minister! Corona has become everyday for the majority of the population in the meantime, often also annoying everyday life. Who would have thought the new normality would look like that? But what surprises many is that politics is still in crisis mode. A proof of this is the 1924 application, which provides for an extension of the possibility for the countries to set up, as required, barracks hospitals without a long authorisation procedure. This, of course, raises the question: What pessimism causes the government to take such a radical step? The application also provides for an extension of the self-test emergency authorisation. I do not understand why these products should not be examined by the Federal Office for Health. The corona industry has become a million-dollar business, and the government it has failed to negotiate the prices for the tests. This is not a careful way of dealing with means of taxation, nor is it a proper way of dealing with health. The government should not have put up with these suspicions, and we will therefore also reject this request. In conclusion, however, I would like to say something positive during this difficult time. Application 1822 concerns the handling of medical crisis supplies, which are just before the expiry date. These products can be donated in the future to aid organisations and countries they need. This is a very important and right signal among the states, because Corona is a global crisis, and we will only be able to defeat the pandemic together. This positive gesture has also existed in my constituency. At the beginning of the pandemic we received a large charge of protective masks from our partner district in Beijing. We could then pass these on to schools and kindergartens. This was a great support and also an important peoples' help that we have gladly accepted. I am very pleased that Austria is now also strengthening the path of mutual assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e11055	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Jörg Leichtfried. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e11080	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to thank you for the fact that, despite these difficulties, you have now identified the connection with this dossier. It is now up to me to submit the request again. He's already been justified by Mr Stöger. I would like to follow this up and therefore put the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's more necessary than ever. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[15:58]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e11263	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore also under negotiation. There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. We agreed to put the votes to the end of the negotiations on the Health Committee's submissions and continue to complete the agenda. [[15:58:52]] 12. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1586/A(E) by Mr Mag. Christian Drobits, colleagues concerning the immediate prohibition of titanium dioxide E 171 due to cancer risk (1073 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e11305	We're on the 12th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mag.a. Ulrike Fischer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e11336	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Titanium dioxide or E 171 – each of us has probably already lubricationd it on the skin, lubrication it into the face, washing the hair or eating it. It is located in sauces, medicines or – what children like to eat – in Marshmallows, in Mozzarella and in other things. France has taken the first step, France has banned titanium dioxide in food. In the last Health Committee, we unanimously decided that titanium dioxide should be rapidly banned in Austria. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and the honourable Member, Mahrer.]] It is a food additive that does not matter completely for the nutritional value. It makes the cream whiter, it makes things shiny and it's fire dangerous. In this respect, it is very important that we here in Parliament today have broad support for the prohibition of titanium dioxide, i.e. in foodstuffs, and that it is examined whether it makes sense to use it in cosmetics. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] You must imagine: You think you do something good, you lubricate a suncream on the skin to the child, and in fact you have substances that you say can change the inheritance, there are substances that we do not know if they are carcinogenic. Therefore: Get rid of titanium dioxide! – Thank you, Minister, for your commitment!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e11378	Next item is the report by Mrs Drobits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e11399	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! It is precisely on a day when we have 20 people affected by breast cancer in our midst and we celebrate the month of early detection of breast cancer or solidarity in the sense of Pink Ribbon, that it is important for me to point out that I personally, my group and all of us here who support this, with this request I have made, have achieved a substantial success – a success that is highly appreciated for all Austrians. If you know how high the percentage of cancer is as a cause of death in all deaths in Austria each year, 23 percent, you know how many people, like many families and how many families affected by it can help us. It is a great success that has been achieved together. If we look at the objectives of Pink Ribbon, behind which solidarity stands, I would like to say that it is not essential that we have tabled the proposal, but that it is essential that all, including the Federal Minister, have come up and contributed to this joint success. I would therefore like to thank you for this cooperation, because the amended proposal only raised the floor immediately. The word immediately, I assume, is not the essential feature, as the Federal Minister himself has assured Austria that he will have a pioneering role in this area. Titanium dioxide, this food additive, is carcinogenic. This has been shown to be proven throughout Europe. I am therefore glad that we have not waited many days, but have implemented the ban very quickly. Unfortunately, the proposal was tabled in May of this year and then postponed, but today, in October, we have the opportunity to implement it quickly. Mr. Federal Minister, I insist on you, I rely on your signals. Perhaps you yourself would also like to demonstrate that, following today's decision, which I hope will be unanimous, you will finally implement this ban on the use of titanium dioxide as a food additive in Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] The fight against cancer continues. As a court representative, I have often seen how important it is to support this group. We also have a joint proposal on the fight against cancer in the workplace, with a petition attached to it. I am already inviting all the political groups to take part in the fight, as in the application for titanium dioxide, across parties and together. We owe it to those people at the visitor gallery, we owe it to all families, especially those who do not yet know that they have someone in the family who or the cancer can get. We are jointly invited to lead this fight against cancer in solidarity. Thank you for the cooperation, and Mr Federal Minister, for rapid implementation! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e11451	Next item is the report by Mr Hechenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e11472	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate spectators here and also at home! We also discussed the issue of titanium dioxide in the last Health Committee, in which we are discussing many issues. One thing is clear: We know that health prevention begins with a healthy diet. That is why the issue of food is a particularly important one, and I think that we need to make decisions in common and closed form with everything that contributes to making food better, safer for our consumers. For this reason, I am also very pleased that this request will be taken jointly. Titanium dioxide, which is to be banned because of an expert opinion from Brussels, because it is permanently changed and therefore dangerous, really needs to be removed from food production. We all know that titanium dioxide or E 171 is an additive that we do not necessarily need. We also know that many consumers generally have difficult access to e-numbers for food. I believe that we as legislators must be a pioneer in order to make food safer and to develop positively. For this reason, I have to express great praise to our producers, to our farmers. The food report of last year clearly shows that our food is safe. Austria can happily appreciate, not only safe food from our farmers, but also in sufficient quantity and high quality to be provided. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as by Mr Maurer and Mr Jakob Schwarz.]] One thing has also been made quite clear, namely that where there are shortcomings, most of them are labelling defects. For this reason, Mr. Federal Minister – we have already exchanged – we must work together to build on the principles of the government programme in the field of designation of origin. Every consumer has the right to transparency. Every consumer, every consumer, needs to know where they come from, how they were produced or how they were put together. For this reason, we will not tire of continuing this large project together and also over-participally. Finally, I would like to address an example that we have implemented in our federal state of Tyrol, together with the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Agriculture, the Land of Tyrol and the Tyrol Advertising: the so-called voluntary designation of origin, “I say where it comes from”. As a result, gastronists voluntarily declare themselves willing to identify where food was produced, where they came from, thus creating an information and transparency added value for the guests and at the same time also draw their own advantage from it. We will continue this project in Tyrol, continue to implement it, but in the end we need to continue in Austria, the relevant legal decisions. Since, Mr Federal Minister, I very much rely on you so that we can implement together the mandatory designation of origin for the primary ingredients of milk, meat and eggs, as set out in the government programme. We should have a big goal: At the beginning of the new year this should be implemented from my point of view. The consumer, the consumer and also our farmers have deserved the appropriate transparency. We know: We really require our farmers to produce food under the strictest conditions. But we must also give them the opportunity to make the purchase decision not only dependent on the price, but really on the quality. It's only when you know where food comes from. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In this sense, this is an important step in the right direction today, but we need to move further. I am convinced, however, that we can do this together.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e11529	Next item is the report by Mr Stammler. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e11551	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At first glance, the issue of the ban on titanium dioxide does not appear to be highly straining – and there really is nothing to do with it: It tastes like nothing, it doesn't make it durable, it doesn't make anything softer, nothing fluffier, it makes up a little bit more beautiful. That's the only one. Property or one of two characteristics: It makes whiter, it makes more shiny and it's toxic. Even if this was just an additive, we would never use it ourselves in our kitchen. As a farmer, I have to say, it sometimes disturbs me, what, after we have given the food out of our hands, is still doing everything in the processing. But it may still be a phenomenon of our time to use even toxic means to sell a little better. toxic blenders should: Whether in the market economy, in food or in other areas of life, such as politics, it is in principle a thing of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e11587	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[16:11:35]] Vote on agenda items 6 to 12
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e11611	We shall come to the votes of the Committee on Health, which I shall take separately from each item on the agenda. Before entering the voting process, I can ask if we can vote. - That's the case. I come to the vote on agenda item 6: Draft federal law amending the 1950 Epidemic Act and the COVID-19 Act in 1067 of the Supplements. Mr Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr President, have tabled an amendment. We first vote on the parts concerned by the proposed amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Now on the amendment tabled by Mr Schwarz, Mr Schalmein, Mr Cots, on Rule 2. Whoever is for this purpose, I ask him for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. We shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. - That's the majority. We'll come to the third reading. Whoever accepts this in third reading, I may ask for a corresponding sign. – The draft law is therefore also adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Belakovich, colleagues, on 'End of all Covid measures and on the day of Corona's freedom on 26 March. ==References== Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on agenda item 7: Draft German Federal Act amending the COVID-19 Exchange Grant Act, including the title and receipt in 1068 of the Supplements. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. I should like to ask who is to do so at third reading and ask for a sign on this point. – adopted by a majority, also at third reading. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Kucher, ladies and gentlemen, on the "Pflegeoffensive now!". Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on agenda item 8: Draft operating test law in 1069 of the Supplements. Mr Kucher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the part concerned by the proposed amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law. Amendment tabled by Members Kucher, ladies and gentlemen, on point 1. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this in the Committee's report to give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. – This is again the same voting behaviour, adopted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. That's the same voice. That is why this draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hauser, fellow Members, on 'Maintain business free tests'. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Draft federal law amending the COVID-19 camp law, including title and receipt in 1070 of the supplements. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever does so in third reading, I ask for a sign on this matter. – This was also adopted by a majority of the third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Draft Federal Act amending the Health Telecommunications Act 2012, together with the title and receipt in 1071 of the Supplements. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – That is unanimous. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever does so in third reading, I ask him again for a corresponding handsign. – This was unanimously adopted at third reading. Agenda item 11: Draft Federal Act amending the Health and Health Organization Act and the Medical Equipment Act in 1072 of the Supplements. Mr Smolle, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr President, have tabled an amendment. We shall first vote on the parts affected by the amendment. Amendment tabled by Mr Smolle, Mr Schalmein, Mr President, on Rule 2. Who is for that, I seek his consent. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. - That's the majority. We shall come to the third reading. Those who agree to this draft law at third reading may give a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by a majority. Agenda item 12, the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1073 of the Supplements on ‘the immediate prohibition of titanium dioxide E 171 due to cancer hazard’. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[203/E]] [[16:17:58]] 13. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1031, e.g._Other Organiser Agreements in the field of social security between the Republic of Austria and Canada (1083, e.g.) 14. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 1900/A(E) by Mrs Erwin Angerer, colleagues on energy poverty (1084b) 15. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the report referred to in § 3 para. 5 of the Federal Law on the establishment of the COVID-19 crisis management fund for March 2020 until July 2021, presented by the Federal Minister for Labour (III-401/1085 d.b.) 16. Point Report and request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the draft federal law amending the Maternity Law in 1979 (1086, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e11883	We now come to points 13 to 16 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Heinisch-Hosek is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The word stands with her. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e11912	Mr President. Minister of Labour! Minister of Health! I have taken out the subject of special care time from these reports, proposals and requests. Special care time is more than one word, especially since the right to special care time has become an anchor for many parents, for many mothers and fathers. We know that there is an exemption from care in the event of illness of children, there is, when something suddenly occurs, the possibility of taking it free. However, there was no legal claim 1.5 years ago. At that time, it was first discussed that it would be important to reconcile the special care time with the employer's side, so that parents – mothers, fathers and, above all, very required single parents or single parents – who have helped, cared for and worked by the way, can get at least up to three weeks of relief. However, it took a few months – until November 2020 – until this right was decided here in Parliament, and then everything was quite different again in the new school year. I think it is important to tell the story about it because the adults, but of course also the children, were deeply insecure. At the beginning it wasn't clear: Is a school open? Is a school closed? Is there care or not? – If there is care, there is no special care time and no exemption. In July last year, the scheme expired, and in autumn, this uncertainty was restored for parents. I can only remind you and all of us: In the first week of school, the 450 positively tested children were reported, and more than 300 classes of quarantine were imposed. This is only a month ago, ladies and gentlemen. There were already 8,000 children in quarantine at the time – and the parents still had no right to special care time. Then there was a lot of pressure. That was necessary and important. The social partners have agreed well in this respect, and the Trade Union Confederation has made a significant contribution to this. We have made our contribution and together we have achieved a distraction. The provisional proposal was that this special care period should be reintroduced from October onwards. Then, once again, pressure had to continue the right to special care time retroactively with September. One must also think of the children: the chaos at the beginning, without free trial 14 days quarantine, with free trial ten days quarantine, whole classes that were sent home. Currently, the quarantine is five days if only the seat neighbour or the seat neighbour is tested positively. This chaos, of course, also means great concern for parents to get a call and then not to know: Do I have to pick up my child? How long must it be at home? It is necessary to inform the employer immediately that special care time is required. You have to be careful that no one else has time, just you. Both parents have to work. The scheme is therefore very tighter in terms of the possibility of taking advantage of the right to special care. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Everything so terrible, right?- Oh, my God!]] Mr. Federal Minister Kocher, I have already asked you in committee, I ask you again today: Why does this extension of the right to special care with New Year's Eve end with 31 December? What's after Christmas holidays? They answered me and all of us in the committee: Well, I assume that a lot of kids have already been vaccinated. The Minister of Health is not here now, but I wanted to involve him again. Firstly, we do not yet know when this vaccination is really released. Secondly, we do not know which parents want their children to be vaccinated and which children, from a certain age, decide for themselves whether to be vaccinated. Your answer, Mr Kocher, was as follows: There's already a lot of kids vaccinated anyway, and then we don't need it any longer. - It's been a little bit. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Belakovich.]] I would like to share this with you once again, because we have also requested that there should actually be a low level of information campaign on this vaccination for children. Parents should be able to understand what it means and what benefits it has when children between six and twelve years of age, as well as younger ones, have the opportunity to be vaccinated. This crisis has left quite deep traces for the children, but also for the adults. I think we now know not only from some studies from Germany and the USA, but also from surveys in Austria that the psychosocial consequences of this crisis can be devastating for children. At first, they were afraid they could infect someone. You recall the first statements of the old chancellor, who said, perhaps everyone will infect the grandparents, therefore: Lockdown, it's all closed. Children were afraid that they could be distributors of this virus. Later it was that children had already responded with depression, depression, perhaps also with eating disorders. 16 percent of the children surveyed in Austria as part of this study even had thoughts of suicide. Excessive media consumption, but also fears and depressions have increased. What else does that contribute to? – Close housing conditions and challenging relationships within families can play a role. We all cannot give up the psychological consequences today. I think it needs more help for parents and children – this is important. Now, treatment places have been put in perspective, even today the Minister of Finance was worth a half-rate in the budget speech. However, I believe that the expansion of school social work and child therapy – not only of facilities, but also of places – must be multiplied. It is not only a matter of catching up the fabric – children will probably never be able to pick up what they could not learn this year – but above all because the children and their parents are also very well cared for. It is not true that the world is back in order if either the infant vaccination comes or when the special care period ends at 31 December. Now I come to the end – the clock is not going, it's set to 4 minutes, I think I'm already over it, Mr President, in fact, isn't it? The last sentence I would like to make is that: Mr Federal Minister, we would have been satisfied with the conclusion that October would have been better for us to survive well the next summer. I am not convinced that then all children have already been vaccinated or the pandemic is already over. Therefore, it would have been important not to make another cut with New Year's Eve, but to give the parents and the children a little more security by extending the right to the special care period. - It's a shame.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e11955	The touchscreen didn't work. Mrs Salzmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European I should like to welcome Mr Kocher and also the students of the University of Journalism from Vienna quite warmly, because we have the opportunity again to allow more onlookers. [[General condolences.]] Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e11994	Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek! Yes, I share so many concerns you have expressed here at the speaker's desk. Estimated Minister of Labour! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) And I hope you will be interested in this debate at home, and I would also like to pay tribute to you today. But it is true that we support the families in the pandemic and respond promptly to what is needed, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] The pandemic has shown that women and families in particular have trained a lot at this time, and it is all the more important that we look well at the families and especially the women and offer support measures. This, ladies and gentlemen, is now the debate. On the one hand, I would like to address the special care period, which is now being extended by the end of this year – first in advance as long as it is necessary. On the other hand, I will also address the protection of pregnant women. In addition, however, it is very important for me to look at the families today, especially the women. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The special care period, ladies and gentlemen, is a very important aid, and since November last year there has been a legal claim. We have already set up the special care period in March last year. In the meantime, parents or women, single parents – however, caregivers – can, if they have children up to 14 or people with disabilities, be exempt from work as employees. The employer is replaced by the remuneration, and the employee, who receives the remuneration for up to four weeks, continues to pay. This always happens when a school or care facility is closed or at least part of it. 15 million euros have been spent on this alone last year, and 6.1 million euros this year, according to the report submitted by Minister of Labour Kocher in the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. We also support the families and women in the pandemic, but also through the child bonus, through the family bonus plus with 1,500 euros per child, through the corona family hard balance, through the corona short work – 45 percent benefits women – through the wage tax reduction from 25 to 20 percent. All this goes into the family's wallet! I would also like to mention the expansion of day-to-day childcare facilities of 145 million euros. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, we are important to the families, and we have done a lot in the pandemic for the families! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] A second point, which is particularly important to me as an employee representative, is the protection of pregnant women. We know that the pregnant can only be vaccinated since May on recommendation. We will now extend the validity of the § 3a Mother Protection Act until the end of this year, so that women continue to have a right to certain protective measures if they have physical contact in their professional practice. There are then different possibilities for the employer to regulate this. We will therefore continue to extend this, which is a very important measure to protect the pregnant. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will massively relieve families of the eco-social tax reform! [[Abg. Belakovich: Load! ...!]] We will bring the working people and the families a package of relief from which everyone can really benefit. The family bonus will be increased to EUR 2 000. We will continue to support the families. Just yesterday, we tabled a motion for a resolution calling on Minister Fäsmann, together with the countries, to draw up a sustainable model for the financing of day care, the improvement of the provision of childcare services and the early promotion of language. We look at the families, we look at the children and we look at the women in particular! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We also rely on equal opportunities for women. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] We'll roll out the automatic pension split. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, you may have different ideas. Allow us to have other models! [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] They were in the government for a long time and could implement it; we will now implement it together with our green coalition partner. We will also, above all, increase the protection of women and children from violence. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Mr Bures, the second President, is not here now. We women wear a beautiful plug, the Pink Ribbon; also the men wear it, dear Christian. I would like to take this opportunity to ask from the speaker's desk all women, but also all men: Please go to the precautions! Early detection is the most important in the treatment and control of cancers. Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by dealing with a situation which, I think, is very stressful for all of us here in part! The last days were more than demanding. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] It is quite clear to me as a lawyer that the accusations standing in the room need to be clarified. But it's clear to me, too: The presumption of innocence is without regard to the person. [[Abg. Belakovich: The suspicion of innocence!]] It applies, of course, to the accused now, no matter what their name is. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In recent years, we have, together with the Greens in the Coalition, made a lot of progress, we have launched many reform programmes, we have done a lot to deal with the pandemic, and we have kept the economy in motion. All of this worked together. But there is still a lot to do, ladies and gentlemen, in the fight against pandemic, and there is still much to be done in the implementation of our government programme. Now we want to roll out the eco-social tax reform and also implement the climate ticket. But: It is now also important to restore confidence in politics. We're all out there and we hear what the people who are telling us. The political discourse can no longer be conducted in this sharpness, with this underestimation, with this partly inconspicuous choice of words and with this disrespect. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bösch: Say that to the short troupe!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I'm really asking you: Everyone here has responsibility for it. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] We need stable conditions in Austria, we need a good reform policy, because there is more than enough to do, and the voters have chosen us to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e12136	Mr Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e12158	Mr President. Federal Minister! Yes, it is about special care periods; a lot has already been said about this. Mr Federal Minister, I have already told you in committee: You slept the beginning of the school year. There has been a so-called security phase in our children. There all children were tested, and it was natural. to expect you to find positive tests. The children were isolated at least once, no matter what finally came out on the PCR test. These are all problems that parents face when the call comes out of school and they say: Now you need to pick up the child and then you get further information from the authority. – Nothing has happened at all except that the antigen test in school was positive. Then you have to wait for the Authority's orders. The next day you drive to the PCR test. Then you have the result. Fortunately, if it is negative, at least one and a half working days have been used up. I'd just like to say that once. All of this is not in your thinking at all. If you have the wrong that the child is perhaps still positively tested, you have to take care of it anyway, you will be released as K1 anyway. But if you have the wrong thing, that it is your seat neighbor and your own child has nothing at all, you also have to care for it. Then you also have to drive the child to a PCR test station so that you can prove that your own child is negative. This test can then be repeated in five days, so you can test yourself almost free. You didn't really care about all of this, Mr. Federal Minister! Do you know what that means to parents when the child is in quarantine and if the child is in quarantine just like last year maybe two, three times ten days? Have you ever considered what this means in a school year like the last one where the children were more at home than they were in school? Then finally there was a couple of weeks of school, and then the quarantine came! When this one was finally over, the next quarantine came. It is now shortened in this school year – by the way, it wasn't at school yet – but it's the same thing again: Children must also be cared for on these five days. That's what you've been sleeping for, because you obviously wanted to sleep it, and it was the pressure of the public and the parents that you have to move there now, that you have to decide on a special care period again. And what did we get on the table? - Until the end of December! So, now we have two options. Either say She is the Minister of Labour: Well, from January it's actually meaty; if people let the children immunize, then everything's good. – That was about the answer you gave in the committee. You expect your vaccination campaigns to be so great, and the parents who then don't let their children inoculate are themselves to blame, who should look where they stay. It is also not expected that this Federal Government will be honest in informing about child vaccinations. It is a vaccination that is extremely unethical for children, but not even the health minister would really admit it. It is a disaster, which is happening here in this Republic. That's just about pressure and force, that's the only thing you want to practice on the citizens outside, and that's exactly how the laws stand. What we are not discussing here today, because it is not interesting for black and green, for example, concerns an anti-discrimination application for persons who are deaf. It was about the fact that not only the deaf person himself should be allowed to run the mask, but of course also his companion so that they can talk – this request is not important, one does not need it. Of green and black there is no support in this respect for people with severe hearing impairment or for deaf people, that is not necessary! It also concerns another request made by us: This is a ban on discrimination against unvaccinated people. For God's sake, Unvaccinated are the serious criminals in this Republic anyway – just as you argued and for this very reason all this has been postponed. You're not talking about honest politics at all. My previous speaker said: We brought so much together! – Yes, Mrs Colleague, you could gain this impression at the speed, because there are really great studies. However, all these studies were prepared by the Karmasin Institute and then published great in the media, probably in the course of your media cooperation. There's going to be so much more out there, ladies and gentlemen! If you feel required on the weekend, that's your problem. We are not all called for together, but this is a problem for the Austrian People's Party. You have raised a Messiah, you have all been rehearsed to him, although you have probably already suspected that there is not everything very clean, and now you have to live with the consequences – please do not take the rest of Parliament hostagely! This is a problem for the People's Party and not a problem for the Austrian Parliament. If people are then at some point frustrated and politically blatant, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, then your share is certainly disproportionately large. That is why you should finally be humble and perhaps apologise. – And instead of taking time, Mr. Hörl, it would also be good for the representatives of the Austrian People's Party to come here and to apologize to the Austrian people for the acting you have given here in recent days, and also to apologize for the fact that you have led the people around the nose that the population has really been manipulated since 2016, 2017. You should apologise for that, instead of so prepotently calling in here now!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e12227	Mrs Barbara Neßler will speak next. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e12251	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! As regards the Special Care Time Report, only so much remains to be said that the special care period was, of course, absolutely necessary and it is unfortunately not surprising that women in particular took advantage of the special care period. If we were to examine or evaluate the corona crisis in terms of equality, then I don't think it takes a prophetic talent to realize that the care work, the unpaid work, is especially affecting women. To connect to yesterday: That is why, of course, it is absolutely necessary that we now make quick jumps forward, especially as regards all day schools and childcare. That is why we made the request yesterday. It is not only a question of burdening parents in their care obligations, but also of enabling the same opportunities for fathers and mothers, and above all, that is what we must say to produce equality within the family – something that really benefits everyone. As regards criticism of the special care period and the exemption for pregnant women, which we decide today, I can really understand this criticism, namely the demand that this should apply beyond the end of the year, I can say: If we need this beyond the end of the year, we will extend it. But what I think is sad is the fact that these decisions need to be taken today, because in the fight against the Corona crisis, we could really be a bit further if we all wanted to. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Especially pregnant women are exposed to an increased risk in the event of covid disease, we know. That is why it is of course important that we decide to extend the possibility of such an exemption today. Furthermore, we have already paid 19 million euros to the companies in order to support the exemption. But I have to say, and I can't stress it often enough: The risks posed by a Covid-19 disease are significantly higher than any side effects, and unfortunately, you and your child are putting off a risk that would really be avoidable. [[Abg. Belakovich: Can you prove this?]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Wrong...!]] I can only say to the colleague from the FPÖ or to the FPÖ: You could make a constructive contribution by showing yourself out of your party and saying why they have been vaccinated – in order to protect themselves. That would be a constructive contribution, a model effect, and just if it were from you, that would be something very constructive in the fight against the pandemic, because that you are more coined, we now all see. [[New call for tender Belakovich]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I tell you quite honestly, the figures from the Ministry of Health made me speakless for a short time. From January to August of this year, 152 babies – the first year of life – had to be treated for Covid, ten of them had to be cared for intensively, and that's crazy! I am convinced that parents don't care that their children are exposed to covid infection at the beginning of their life and may also suffer from Long Covid. In addition, unfortunately, one must also say that there are studies that show that there can be still births in a serious covid process. Although others claim the opposite, there is probably no vaccination that has been studied in a short time as well as the Covid vaccination. [[Abg. Belakovich: Scientificly good...!]] That's why I'm really appealing: Let us listen to the experts who have made a very clear recommendation that pregnant women should be vaccinated, that women with children's desires should also be vaccinated urgently, and let us not listen to people without expertise who are spreading any horror scenarios! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e12332	The honourable Member is hereby informed of the matter. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e12354	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! [[The salutation also in sign language:]] Love deaf people! With the extension of the special exemption for pregnant women, we are once again repairing part of the failure of the Federal Government. Since May of this year, it is possible for pregnant women to be vaccinated – we also have enough vaccine, we thank God for even so much vaccine that we can pass it on to other countries – and in June Minister Mückstein announced that all the vaccines will be vaccinated until September. This is why it is Long-term extension beyond September for us a special holiday only for impugned pregnant women. I therefore ask you: How does the taxpayer get to finance this? It is similar with the special care period. The Federal Government has not managed to achieve such a high vaccination rate that we no longer need restrictions. That is why we need to extend the special care time again. Perhaps it would be wise at this point to get the pharmacists into the boat to reach a low-sleep vaccination offer. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] However, since we do not manage adults to reach this vaccination rate – we are currently 61.6 percent – we focus on schools. The schools are flooded with rules and measures, and this concerns directors, teachers, children and parents. So try to fight the pandemic about the children. The first weeks of school have shown this impressively: There were several hundred school classes in quarantine, first ten days, then only more than five, otherwise everyone would have been home again. This is an expression for children and parents, but also for employers. Denmark has not had any restrictions for a long time, Norway and Switzerland at least protect the children and leave them in peace. We are in high school closures, Switzerland, with probably similar challenges as we have, have only had six weeks of school closures. Volker Stärter, the chief infectiologist of the Austrian Society for Child and Youth Medicine, called for more serenity on the 20th September in the “Standard”, as the children are not affected as much and the school closures have much worse aftereffects. The children pay the price for the lack of vaccination policy of the Federal Government. Making the pandemic management about the children does not work and we believe it is irresponsible. The fact that the population is now skeptical and concerned about the education of their children after 19 months of pandemic management shows the school cancellations. Thank you. [[Also performing the thanks in sign language:]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e12423	The Federal Minister Kocher has been reported to speak. I can give him the word. – Mr Federal Minister, the floor is with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e12444	Mr President. Col. Mückstein! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The pandemic has led to difficulties and major problems for all in Austria, especially in the labour market, working people, mothers, fathers and families, all of which have been addressed. Fortunately, vaccination now allows us to return to normality in certain areas. I call once again on everyone to deal with this possibility responsibly and rationally, because it will be important for this winter. Although we have largely recovered from the pandemic in the labour market, we have again a labour market situation that is better than 2019 – I will say something at the next item on the agenda – but we need to prepare for the time in winter if the infection situation may be a little worse again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] This preparation includes two measures to be adopted today. The first measure concerns the special care period. This is about working parents and the extension of the right to special care. In contrast to many public statements, partly here in Parliament, there was for a parent, if there was no other option, always a right to a service exemption when a child had to be in quarantine. However, the special care period – with the legal claim since last year and with the full payment for employers, employers since November 2020 – is the easiest way to do so. She does not raise any disputes between workers, employees on the one hand and employers, employers on the other. To that extent, I am very pleased that we were able to bring this special care scheme back into force with 1.9., even there were constitutional concerns. That is, all parents have a right to special care time retroactively with 1.9.2021. Of course, we will continue to observe this and see if it is necessary to extend this right. At the moment it runs until 31.12.2021. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The special exemption for pregnant women is also to be extended by the end of the year – that is the second measure. As Minister of Labour, the protection of workers, workers at the workplace is always important to me, especially of pregnant women. Given the situation in the pandemic, we still do not want to impose any health risk on pregnant pregnant women at work. This is important because the vaccination for pregnant women has only been authorised since May, is also recommended for a few weeks and there is a much stronger individual medical assessment in pregnant women as regards this vaccination. The vaccination is certain, there is the recommendation not only in Austria, but also from the Standing Commission on the Vaccination in Germany. However, there are still some unvaccinated pregnant women in close-to-body professions – this is now covered by this measure – such as cosmetic women, hairdressers, masseurs or kindergarten pedagogues. It is also important that the companies have security that the costs of the exemption will be refunded to 100 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! With the two measures mentioned above, we make a significant contribution to the protection and support of workers in these pandemic periods and ensure that there will be no restrictions or additional difficulties due to administrative measures, which are sometimes necessary. I am of course aware that there are enough difficulties in any case, especially with children who have to be quarantined. We are trying to do everything we can to keep at least the financial difficulties and difficulties with the employer, the employer at work as low as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e12505	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e12526	Mr President. Minister of Health! Minister of Labour! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Would you have believed half a year ago that we now have de facto full employment in October? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Would you have thought half a year ago that we were again experiencing such a big economic upturn? Yes, we owe this to many people in our country, and apparently we too have made many right decisions in the House. Apparently, the government has also worked excellently, otherwise we would not have been so well hit by this crisis in the international comparison. Without our excellent health system and without the vaccination of the people in our country, however, we would not have done so. - Thank you for that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] All those who have not yet been able to opt for a vaccination, I would ask that this step be taken in order to further enhance our quality of life. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Maurer and Mr Scherak on his work.]] Now at special care time: We've heard a lot about it now. I would just like to mention that we have already been able to help over 27 000 people. I think it is very good that at that time, in November, we also gave the entrepreneurs a 100% refund, because it is not easy for a company to pull all the threads properly and replace the labour force. That too, I think, has been very successful. Mrs Belakovich, it is not always pressure to exercise, but the government sees it very well when it is necessary to extend a measure. That's what we'll do when it's ready. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, a bit of pressure has already been needed!]] A few words on the question of energy poverty, which we will shortly be discussing in the Committee on Economic Affairs, Industry and Energy: Thank God the energy poverty in Austria, especially in international comparison, is not so widespread – E-Control Austria has recently noted this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Yeah, but it's true: We will also have to take care of the people concerned to ensure that the ecological turnaround is successful. The incentives for the transition to renewable energy must be so attractive that, for example, it is also possible for owners to make the necessary investments. Only in this way will it succeed to be able to provide the tenants with the possible energy. Finance Minister Blümel has already mentioned it in the budget speech today: Incentives instead of penalties, a budget and a tax reform to ensure recovery, stability and sustainability. – Thank you to all those here in the House who support this path! A word to Mr Kollross – I hope he's here, otherwise please send it to him: You mentioned the election in Upper Austria. Since you are Lower Austrian, be it for you that you are poorly informed about the Upper Austria elections. They said in allusion to the Federal ÖVP, “overall the ÖVP-[...] mayors must take the hat.” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cornelia Ecker.]] – I’m actually correcting in my speech: The ÖVP now places more mayors than after the last election 2015. I remember the city of Traun, which is the fifth largest city in Upper Austria, where there has so far been a SPÖ mayor, who has now been replaced by an ÖVP mayor. I remember Andorf, I remember old münster and I remember Mattighofen. By the way, the ÖVP has three quarters of all mayors in Upper Austria, and Upper Austria is doing very well. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e12599	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e12620	Mr President. Estimated Minister! High house! I would also like to turn now to energy poverty, and I would like to say more about it. Fighting energy poverty, to speak, because I think it is a shame for a country like Austria that we are still in agreement here on issues such as poverty reduction. For months now it has been clear that energy prices will rise extremely, and the Federal Government is simply watching without taking action. This is not about renewable energy. It is about the fact that experts expect that, at the latest after the turn of the year, significant price increases will be made for consumers – up to 500 euros a year as an additional burden for an average household. Many other European countries, such as Spain and France, have already taken action. Our Federal Government has so far remained inactive. For most people in Austria, 500 euros for electricity and heating costs will become an impossible financial burden. It is our task as a National Council to protect the people of Austria from being able to heat up their homes this winter or to pay the energy costs for the supply of their daily needs. As SPÖ, we urgently call on the Federal Government to take effective measures quickly to protect the population from additional costs. We have already proposed a temporary reduction in VAT on electricity and gas and a one-time winter subsidy for low incomes of 300 euros to protect people from falling into poverty by means of high energy costs. Even in the planned tax reform, which is anything but social, the people who do not pay any taxes because of their low income were not considered again. These are, for example, long-term unemployed, which are also those most affected by price increases in energy costs. This continues to strengthen the poverty of these people, especially with regard to the long-term unemployed. These are currently around 165,000 people in Austria living by the emergency aid. On average, this amounts to 1 000 euros per month, which means they have to come out. The number of people in Austria who are affected by more than two years of unemployment has quadrupled in the number of over 45 years since 2008 and unemployment has increased even further by the corona pandemic. Nevertheless, the Federal Government looks away and rejects any constructive proposals for an active labour market policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For me, it is inconceivable that this request, which aims to combat energy poverty, is rejected by the government parties. Of the ÖVP, we are already used to making politics not for the people of our country, but only for the corporations, but I miss the social conscience of the Greens, which is obviously no longer present. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e12674	Member of the Angerer Chamber has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e12696	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pöttinger has just mentioned the request concerning energy poverty included in this package. Mr Pöttinger meant: If you had meant a year ago that we were going to be like this again today. Have you got a job? – Now I have to ask you, Mr Pöttinger: Would you have meant a year ago that we today have electricity costs and gas costs that explode? Did you mean a year ago that we have an inflation of 3.2 percent? Did you mean a year ago that people in Austria can no longer afford heating and electricity? Did you mean that? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] But they obviously mean: There are few who are concerned about this in Austria. Now let's see: How few are these? There are current, so-called poverty figures from the poverty conference: 17.5% of the population of Austria, around 1.5 million, are “in danger of poverty or exclusion”. 13.9 percent, 1.2 million people, are “in danger of poverty, ” that is, living on an income below the poverty line. 2.7 percent of the Austrian population, which is still 233,000 people, are “significantly defluid” and can no longer afford to keep washing machine, mobile phone, apartment and apartment adequately warm. That's obviously a few for you. 1.5 million people are few. Even if these are only 230 000: For me, these are very many, there are too many, and that is why we have also tabled this request, because how should these people in the future afford electricity, energy and heating if, as we now know, this will make up about 400 to 500 euros per household? How are they supposed to afford this? I may still understand that you don't care about the ÖVP, but that the Greens are squandered - - you really have to be ashamed of the ground and the ground! What would a horseman or a fungus say if you were to be inside like this? You obviously don't care how these people are doing. Now you are moving an application from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. What will you do about it in the Committee on Economic Affairs? Do you agree with him then? You've already rejected him today. – Mr Pöttinger, do you agree in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs that you can help these people to warm their homes in winter, that these people can turn on the light in the evening, or do you reject the request there? Or do you dig him in there with a corresponding delay? That would interest me, Mr. Pöttinger. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e12741	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Will the rapporteur ask for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall put the vote at the end of the negotiations on the proposals of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[17:08:18]] 17. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 44/A(E) by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues on the rapid implementation of a labour market package (1087b) 18. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 628/A(E) by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues on labour market policy emergency measures to promote employment (1088, e.g.) 19. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution 1878/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues with regard to exit from the corona work (1089 d.a.) 20. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, on the re-funding of the above-mentioned AK contributions for short-time work (1090 a.m.) 21. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 905/A by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 (1091b) 22. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 1201/A by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 (1092 d.a.) 23. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 1436/A by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 (1093 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e12854	We come to the agenda items 17 to 23, on which the debates will be carried out again under one. These are the reports of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs and I refer to the agenda for each Committee report. Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Stäger for his excellent report. - Here you go. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e12882	Mr President. Minister of Labour! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Federal Minister, how are you today? We have heard a budget speech, and the Minister of Finance has not said anything on the subject of work except a flake. If you look at the labour market budget, you can see that there is actually little money there and, in addition to a few headlines, there are above all no measures that play a role in the field of labour market policy. It is right – and we are all happy with each other – that now, also triggered by Corona, the labour market situation has greatly improved. That's good. We have the problem, however, that just around 120,000 people are long-term unemployed, and precisely for these people the government has to do something. These are those people who are particularly vulnerable to poverty. There is a need for employment projects, as it takes measures to bring these people into the labour market. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] I can tell you a good example: After we started the 20 000 action in 2017, the following year the unemployment rate of people who were long-term unemployed or more than 50 has declined dramatically, and such measures are still waiting for those affected. [[Abg. Zarits: Action springboard!]] We have said very clearly that we need a labour market policy that also works – and if a Member here thinks that the Action Springboard is a little bit together Be careful, because if you jump down, although there is no water in the pool, the jumping board is not very suitable. [[Abg. Zarits: 50,000!]] I would ask you to really do something in this area! As a social democracy, we have also called for an increased disbursement of emergency aid – at the level of unemployment benefit – and this has also been rejected by the government parties. In reality, one can summarize: The workers have nothing to expect from Turquoise-Green, especially those people who are affected by long-term unemployment. Often the people who are already older and who also have health restrictions. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[17:12]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e13008	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is also sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Michael Hammer has now been reported to speak. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e13032	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers! We are discussing a number of requests on the labour market and labour market policy under these agenda items. We have now heard again in advance the eternal sound record of Mr Stöger, which he has been playing for many years – we have completely different approaches and more effective measures than the SPÖ proposes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... is not a record! ... inspectible!]] Because of the constant debate on why applications are postponed in some committees, I would like to say first of all that: This makes sense and makes sense in the SPÖ's applications. You do not even see that the measures you propose are no longer necessary in many areas, because the labour market has developed very positively. Nevertheless, you are constantly bringing in the applications for marmots and are not aware that the situation on the labour market has improved considerably. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Kocher presented the new labour market figures yesterday, but I do not want to address the figures at all, because I think the Minister will still speak in this regard. In any case, we are already below the pre-crisis level for unemployment figures, which is lower than in 2019. This is simply a sign of the fact that the measures we have taken, such as short-time work, economic aid, but also support, have brought the businesses and the employees through the crisis well. There is a high dynamic and a good development on the labour market. The starting point is – and this is also what brings success on the labour market – that the measures put in place are also successful, whether this is the qualification, whether this is the corona job offensive, or whether this is the very useful and good action springboard, which brings important improvements to the long-term unemployed. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Why do we have...?]] I would like to say one more thing – because you are always dramatizing this; the Federal Minister has also made it quite clear: [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: No, that's the truth!]] Each and every unemployed person receives an offer from the labour market service – whether it is a job offer now, whether it is a qualification measure within the framework of the Coronajobsive or a mediation via the Action Springboard for long-term unemployed, which makes sense accordingly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] That's the right way – and not those public sham jobs that the SPÖ always wants to do, because that's not what we need. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: I don't know!]] Yes, Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek – because you always make calls – our access is very easy, that those who can work must also work and that we also communicate them accordingly. [[Call at the SPÖ: Where is the short?]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Your approach is to increase benefits, especially in the case of unemployment – that is not the access with which we bring additional people into employment. Mr Stöger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... was very successful!]] Now you've doubled the number to 40,000, and now you could say that doesn't make it fail or it's twice as stupid, but it's definitely a pointless measure. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Hello!]] [[Call: Mr President, let's sleep...?]] So we will not get closer to this proposal, because we are already putting up with the Springboard action in this very area, and the measures taken by the Federal Minister and the Federal Government are targeted. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We are refusing your requests now, because to delay forever does not matter because the situation has already improved. But you will bring them in again, and then we will reject them again. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e13202	Mrs Belakovich is now on the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e13223	Mr President. Federal Minister! If you've been listening to you, colleague Hammer, then you have to get really bad, especially those people who sit at home and have written many applications, but sometimes don't even get answers. Then Set You come to the speaker's desk and say: It gets every unemployed person an offer, either a job or a qualification measure, it's actually all wonderful anyway! Mr Pöttinger explained earlier that there was de facto full employment – I think Mr Hanger also said that earlier in the morning, because I did not take it very seriously, because he already knows that he is a satire project. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what do you understand? You under full employment? If more than 300 000 people are unemployed in our country, are you talking about full employment?- Oh, my God! If more than 120,000 people are now in long-term unemployment due to their completely pointless and overpaid measures, are you talking about full employment?- Oh, my God! We all know what your Economic Union is calling for, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party – this is not the access I would expect after you have driven the country to the wall! The Federal Minister in the Committee has explained how great our labour market is developing: Yes, the numbers have now gone down, and yes, there's a great forecast – but what he didn't say is that sometime the tax charges end. Mr Federal Minister, you have not said this in the committee, nor have you said that there will be a wave on us, in which there may be arguments, and unemployment will rise again. That, ladies and gentlemen, you all don't have on the radar, because it doesn't fit in with your beautiful story that everything would be wonderful in this country. As this story says, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, but feel the citizens outside. They feel the pressure on the labour market, and they know very well that all this is now built on sand. The easy recovery is not yet sustainable, this labour market is far from sustainable. People also feel the underestimation of the policies for the benefits they provide. If they're unemployed, they're being cut off from you now, too: Well, if they want to work, they'll get an offer anyway – so almost: they don't want – and everyone who can, must! Who determines who can do what? Who's going to decide? Destination You do? Does that mean the Minister? Does that mean the AMS? [[Call the ÖVP: Mrs. Belakovich!]] Or will that be found out about any human-respective tests that people then ask: Do you have a birth defects? But there are also quite other questions, such as: Do you have any inflammation of the nasal esophagus? Do you have a urinary tract infection? Something will then cross people with Yes, because anything has happened to anyone, acutely or chronically. Everyone has something, and then people are on the track immediately – that's the way you treat people! All those who have reported themselves on the basis of this media report, all those who have reported, were long-term unemployed who have been sent there by you – of course not a trace, ladies and gentlemen! They were told: You have to do that now – it's even below – and when you're done, your supervisor will report to you! They want to categorize the people into the good that you can convey, and all the others who have had wrong will be controlled. This is your access, and this is repulsive and that is contemptuous, ladies and gentlemen. Instead of finally thinking about how we can actually get into a situation where perhaps over 50 years of long-term unemployed are being brought back into the labour market, sit down and say: All right, de facto full employment, ladies and gentlemen! [[Call at the ÖVP:... action springboard!]] Yes, action springboard: Then people jump up and down, up and down. [[Abg. Gödl: Squeak your language!]] Nothing at all you've achieved with it. The action - - – Mr Gödl, you can then come here, I think you are already registered. [[Abg. Gödl: Squeak your language!]] Tell the people about your prepotent views that you have about the unemployed! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] You're going to get a picture of it. Do that, but let me talk to you now! I know. This hurts you, because you are not only sinking in corruption, you are also sinking in your own prepotence, because the citizens in the country don't care because you don't care about the unemployed in the country because you don't care about the living conditions of the people; therefore the measures against energy poverty will be rejected by you in Bausch and Bowen in the Economic Committee. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer:... not to stand!]] You know how the living conditions are out there. [[Call the ÖVP: Stop!]] These are special conditions that are difficult. Everything gets more expensive, the energy becomes massively more expensive, the television fees are increased, and you sit there in the warm room and say: [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Should we help you?]] Well, let's see if they can find a job. – This is not the access of politics. Politics has to serve people and not vice versa, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, you can already grin, Mr Gödl! You haven't done anything politically until now, you haven't done anything in the care – there's nothing coming, we've heard today, the new budget is nothing at all – but you haven't done anything on the labour market either, so stop your prepotency and come to work for the citizens!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e13364	Mr Koza is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e13385	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps again very briefly on the specific and up-to-date figures: At present, some 264,000 people are affected by unemployment, 70,000 are in training, about 120,000 are long-term unemployed and nearly 69,000 people are currently in short-term employment. To sum up, this means that we are currently – as has been mentioned more often – at pre-crisis level with regard to unemployment. This is also very surprising, because it was not too long ago – as you may remember – we would reach the level of covid at the earliest in 2024 and the high level of unemployment would accompany us for a very long time. Unemployment has fallen, ladies and gentlemen, but we are still very far from full employment, because this is the case at 2.3 percent unemployment, and now, I believe, we are about 6 percent, 6.5 percent. In other words, we are still far away from full-time employment, but fortunately there is a very positive development. On the one hand, this positive development shows that we are pleased to have a relatively robust economy that has managed this crisis quite well, but it also shows that this government has obviously not done everything wrong, because otherwise we would not have the corresponding figures. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] This is not the last reason why we have seen a very expansive budgetary policy in the crisis, because in this crisis we have had to leave the saving path, which unfortunately left us in the last economic crisis in 2011/2012 dramatic unemployment figures, a dramatic increase in unemployment, unfortunately! – which have caused automatic stabilizers to work and have also used the investment engine accordingly. The result was relatively clear: We have actually succeeded in stabilizing income in this crisis. I would just like to remind you: We have had an economic downturn of almost 6 percent, but the incomes of employees are only broken down by 1.8 percent. These are figures from the statistics Austria, numbers that are certainly not manipulated, numbers that are certainly not somehow rewritten, which are quite official, public figures of Statistics Austria. [[Abg. Belakovich: Ah, interesting...!]] It was the short work that made a massive contribution, it was an increase in emergency aid – and we have increased emergency aid for months in this crisis. I would like to remind you of the 2008 crisis, 2011 and subsequent years: At the time, in a crisis where long-term unemployment and unemployment have increased dramatically, how much did the emergency aid increase? – It was exactly 0 cents. [[Abg. Hear: Zero!]] How much euro has unemployment benefit been increased in this crisis? – It was exactly 0 euros. That means: In this crisis, we have taken on social responsibility quite clearly and have also spent money accordingly. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is not only the issue of combating poverty, which is, of course, the focus to prevent the social crisis, but also the question of stabilising the economy, demand and economy, but also of increasing social benefits and benefits from unemployment insurance. Fortunately, thanks to this expansional policy, the economy is currently on a very good path. I would like to point out that, fortunately, we have also confirmed the IHS and the Wifo, and we have not left this path of expansionary budget policy even now, as the height of the crisis is hopefully overcome. I would like to point out that, on the one hand, we are allowing billions to continue with the work of 170 million euros on the one hand, climate protection measures, public transport, renewable energy development, old-house renovation and, on the other hand, and investment, on the other hand. There is the EUR 300 million action springboard, which is a special measure for long-term unemployed, which has also taken some bonds to action 20 000. Let us not always pretend that only one would be the solution model and the other terrible! No, you have to think things together, do things together, take on meaningful elements and simply continue other elements in other areas. This is simply a task of politics, that is pragmatic policy, that is forward-looking policy. We have 20 million euros for environmental and transport work foundations, for what Just Transition means, so that people who have worked so far in areas where they are losing their jobs due to the climate crisis will be relocated to other areas. It will be essential now that we continue to pursue this path of expansive budgetary policy, investment and active labour market policy consistently, because what must not happen is exactly the mistake that we made in 2011: that we went down much too early. I should like to expressly warn that this must not happen. We must use this economic upturn on the one hand, in order to account for the unemployed in employment, but on the other, to invest where it makes sense where it is necessary. Finally, another lesson from the crisis: We have also experienced in the crisis that our system has gaps in the social network. We have experienced that individuals, people who were not in the unemployment insurance system, were suddenly faced with nothing because they were short-term insured because they had a job promise, but did not get this job, and because they were not in the insurance as a single company, as a self-employed person. We're going to be in the middle of it, too. In the course of the labour market reform, we need to consider how we can improve the social security of people who are affected by unemployment, who are vulnerable to unemployment and who are unemployed or unemployed for a long time, and can ensure them better, because this is one of the central lessons of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e13449	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e13470	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I believe that the figures give rise to optimism and to talk about opportunities and not problems. We have as many open jobs in Austria as we have never before, we have job opportunities in all categories of qualifications, and that is gratifying once. Mr Hanger has already said this morning that there are regions in which we have more open jobs than jobseekers. . But there we are again in a problem if the labour market does not produce the offer that would actually be requested. Now the question is: Where do we get the labour force potential? – There are, of course, several approaches, some do not seem the same. [[Call to the ÖVP: That's the question!]] For example, better childcare would ensure that women can go to work more, but this was successfully prevented. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Members of the European Parliament, Mr Lausch and Mr Rauch.]] Whatever would go quickly would be an end to corona short work, because we are holding a lot of tax money employees in jobs where they are no longer fully needed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] You might be in full use in the next company, and we wouldn't even have to put tax money on it, but it would come in more. The short work was super important at the beginning of the Corona crisis and has done good services, but their time has expired. She was the most expensive measure in the crisis and now she is helping the wrong one. Companies with logistics problems that have problems with the supply chain can now finance their supply chain problems through corona-short work by the taxpayer. Companies like the airport Vienna also benefit from the short work. I don't know if the greens had this in mind that they were saving the airport and the jobs at the airport until there is again as much flown as before the crisis – you can want, but you don't have to. That is why we say that the corona short work is stopped and returned to the logic of the old short work. By the way, the AMS also says that many businesses have problems finding staff, and the new Wifo chief Gabriel Felbermayr has also pointed out in the press hour that it is now time to go back to short-time work. [[Abg. Hörl: Nothing new, Mr. Loacker!]] – It’s nothing new, Mr. Hörl, but you don’t do it, even if you’re told fifteen times; that’s the problem. [[Congratulations on the NEOS.]] In this turquoise ear canal there is some bean in it and therefore it does not come to the brain, remains acoustically hanging outside; that is the problem. [[Rejoicing with Members of NEOS and SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We have tabled another request, because who has benefited most from the short work? - The Chamber of Workers. If someone was in short work, the taxpayer made sure that the Chamber of Labour received the same amount of money as if the employee had fully worked. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] But now there was little work because they did not take any training measures and so on, and the working chambers wrote a record profit last year: They left 40 million euros. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hörl.]] The Labour Chamber Director would say: That's not a profit, it's a boredom surplus! – It's me, as the thing is called Denen's left 40 million toads and that's paid back to the workers! [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] However, I have one more question to the Federal Minister, because it has come to light that, perhaps, it is a matter of indebtedness and the presumption of innocence, there is a link between published surveys and funds that have flown, and the political communication of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Scherak: Yes!]] ==References====External links== In July, in the ‘ZIB 2’, they said that the pressure on the unemployed should be increased and that measures will be taken, and by chance on 10 July. In July, Ms. Beinschab published a survey with the title “Austrian rich people speak clearly for pressure on the unwilling unemployed”, with a six-day distance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[Rejoicing and interlocutors with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Very good!]] There are coincidences, I do not believe in them, and if there is an explanation, it would also be exciting to hear them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e13614	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e13635	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This gives me the opportunity to respond: I have never mentioned that the pressure on unemployed should be increased – I have never said that so surely. What I think, then, was that the possible sanctions were raised to the level and implemented in the same way as they were before Corona because the labour market recovered. And: I don't know Mrs. Beinschab. That explains, I think now what the question was. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Such things can be clarified relatively quickly. I come to the issue of labour market. I think it is more important to talk about the labour market. We now have a situation that, fortunately, is a lot better than before the Corona crisis. We have a labour market situation at the end of September/beginning of October, which is better than in the last eight years, until 2013. I think that this is at least an opportunity for everyone to appreciate that this has happened, regardless of what one believes, where it comes from, whether it was the government, whether it concerns the economic situation as a whole, but: The labour market situation is better. Of course, we have first seasonal effects in autumn, that is, unemployment will rise again in winter – that is quite normal. We must continue to pursue active labour market policies which are necessary for those groups that have great difficulties in the labour market. I would like to repeat this very, very much, because the accusation that the Federal Government is not pursuing an active labour market policy is always the case. if not –: The budget for active labour market policies this year and next year is higher than ever before. We have two major programmes, the Coronajobsive, which spent well over 400 million euros on qualification measures this year – and I am saying more about that – and the Springboard programme, which also covers several hundred million euros for the reintegration of long-term unemployed. This is, I say, a very important measure because, of course, there is still a slightly higher number in the long-term unemployment situation compared to the situation before the crisis. However, this has also fallen. In April 2021, about half a year ago, long-term unemployment was about 148 000. We now stand at 120,000 people who are long-term unemployed – the number has already been mentioned. We will continue to try to bring long-term unemployment, as quickly as possible, below the pre-crisis level of about 100,000 people. That's not an easy task. There were many crises, many recessions that occurred in Weitems were not as deep as the coronary session, and after that we always had a higher number of long-term unemployed in Austria than before over several years. If we succeed – and I am convinced that we will succeed if there is no setback in the fight against pandemic – then we have achieved more than many governments before us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We currently have about 70 000 people in training courses. These are training courses from short training courses to long programmes in the framework of the expert scholarship, in which caregivers are trained for over a year and longer. 70 000 persons: This is relatively much, more than 2019 at the same time, about 5,000 more. This also shows that there are more resources running. We have looked at what happened to these people who were promoted in the Coronajobsive, who were qualified or requalified. So far, there are about 60,000 people, and the target is 100,000 by the end of next year. Of these 60,000 people who have completed training until three months ago, over 30,000 have already found a job again – within three months 50 percent is also a very good quota. The measures also work on the labour market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] It is important for me to take a short look at what is still to be done. After some relaxation in the labour market, it is now about thinking about how to create mediation and unemployment insurance, so that unemployment continues to decline. We have re-initiated a reform discussion on unemployment insurance. I am very pleased that we will also have an appointment with the working and social speakers of Parliament very soon. There will be another date for all interested Members, where we can discuss the measures very openly. Of course, there are also dates with the social partners, with the AMS, with the experts, the scientists, to achieve two goals – that is particularly important to me –: To bring people into employment as quickly as possible and to further reduce unemployment while at the same time ensuring better income. I am convinced that there are good opportunities to do so, together with Parliament, together with all the parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e13728	Mr Zopf. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e13750	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home and at the gallery! It is again about the request for an increase in emergency aid from the SPÖ colleagues, whom the FPÖ supports. In the case of emergency workers, the right to unemployment benefit has already expired and they are only long-term unemployed. As emergency workers, we are regarded as those who are willing to work, who are unemployed and who are still unemployed. Help them find work! Of course, it is a simple way to distribute the money of our taxpayers. Every year in autumn, the SPÖ colleagues must be reminded of this: You are not like Saint Martin, you do not share your money, just as Saint Martin has shared his own coat, but the hard-earned tax money of our workers who work hard daily. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, if you do not know the history of Saint Martin well, you can ask your country captain Doskozil, he will well know the history of the country saint and is in need of communication anyway. This proposal is not fair, it is not socially and clearly the wrong way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] An example from practice: A few years ago, I had a conversation with a trade union colleague from Germany. He works in a social office of a German community, where there are employees who support unemployed families, Hartz-IV recipients in the second generation. Long-term unemployed – over generations – can no longer cope with normal everyday life. The social workers wake up their children and send them to school, because even these activities are no longer possible for these families. It was clear to me at the time: We must stop this in Austria! Let's look at Upper Austria: There are 31,000 job vacancies and 29 000 people looking for work. We would not have an unemployed person if we managed to help people seeking employment to take up a job – and that is where we start. We offer training and retraining programmes. We have put forward further measures with the new start bonus and the action springboard, and they work. To provide support in finding a working life again and thus being able to live self-determinedly, this is social and fair. This is good for these people themselves as well as important and right for a functioning society. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will continue to work to support and expand the aid for self-help. In recent weeks and months and not least on the basis of the budget, we have clearly shown how successful social policy works. While she is demanding and criticizing, we have already implemented targeted solutions. Thank God we have a government that chooses this laborious path. In the long run, this is the right way, so I would like to thank the entire government, especially our Minister of Labour Kocher and the Minister of Finance Blümel, for their immense commitment. [[Abg. Belakovich: Don't forget the old chancellor!]] Emergency aid workers are able to work, willing to work and still unemployed. [[Abg. Belakovich: What is this about?]] Help them find work!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e13821	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e13892	Estimated President! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Well, colleague Zopf and colleague Hammer both wear the same pink ribbon sign, and a sign of Pink Ribbon is called solidarity. [[pointing to the pink ribbon sign on its reverse]] – Please, where is your solidarity with cancer sufferers who are long-term unemployed? Where is solidarity? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Where is solidarity when you claim that these people need support in the family and in other areas? Where is solidarity when you are fighting unemployment and not unemployment? – That is the truth! Mr Federal Minister, I feel that some people in this House are more likely to pursue and combat the unemployed today, rather than unemployment and long-term unemployment, which are the major problem. [[Abg. Hanger: colleague, have you ever heard of...?]] You said last time in the Committee that we basically have a quadruple of long-term unemployment since 2008 – 120 000 people. Among these 120,000 people are many who would like to feel like humans. They are currently – I say that and I hear it again and again – called as a number. Mr Belakovich said: Algorithms are on the agenda. There are still questionnaires, but it is no longer about treating these people like people. Mr Federal Minister, I therefore call on you to speed up your efforts to significantly increase the staffing status of the AMS. We currently have a quota at the AMS from a consultant to 250 customers, and this quota is much higher than that in other countries. The claim must therefore be: The AMS needs more staff! We do not need algorithms, and we do not need these questionnaires, which I believe are unworthy of human beings. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Belakovich.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The problem is that there are many employees who have worked for 30 years and then have become sick and then have grown old. These are sent away from the AMS, it says: too old!, at the health insurance center it is called: too healthy!, and at the pension insurance institution: too young! – Please, where should I turn? Mr Federal Minister, it is time to finally remove these interfaces with regard to the ability to work so that these unemployed persons can also have the opportunity to age in dignity and, accordingly, to retire in dignity – from a certain age after they have also been unemployed for some time. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is very important to me to say: The message must be: It is not the unemployed that we must fight, but it is just unemployment. If Mr. Federal Chancellor – actually the old chancellor – and Mr. Hammer say that all those who can work must work, I will make the request: Tell the sons and daughters of the millionaires, please! There, too, this statement would probably be better suited than for unemployed people, who, in part, do not know where to get the money from which they can live in the future. – That’s the question. In this sense, Mr Federal Minister, I would like you to finally address the issue of employability and find the interfaces for us, because there is, I believe, a lot of potential. Although the targets for the AMS are over-motivated, they do not do anything either because the AMS cannot do what you indicate to him. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e13944	Mr Gödl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e13965	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear Mrs. Federal Minister, greet God! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! A short replica to my previous speaker: It's quite clear and our consensus: We are exclusively fighting unemployment and never the unemployed! That wouldn't make anyone feel like it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can also tell you why, and I think it is also inconceivable to consider, for example, international studies that Austria has shown particularly successful during the time of crisis. This has to do with a very offensive policy of this government in recent years, namely an offensive policy in the context of the health crisis, with which we have fought the health crisis in which some people have experienced life and death, which is about long-term health consequences. In the course of this, of course, we have also fought the economic crisis massively. Ladies and gentlemen! So far, we have spent 40.8 billion euros in covid aid in Austria, expected to last day, and spent to help us get over this crisis in all areas. A quarter of these, i.e. 10.3 billion euros, have only supported the field of short-time work. I therefore believe that this short-term work model should be examined. I really appreciate that Mr Loacker, who is speaking right now, is very much in favour of the fact that he always brings his contributions very objectively and professionally, but I would like to comment on his request, in which he calls on the government to stop the work of corona in the short term. [[Abg. Loacker talks to Abg. Tomaselli]] In addition, we believe that this is definitely too early, because we have always tightened the short work phase for phase, and we are now in phase five. ==References== July started. We have originally assumed that about 100 000 to 120 000 people are registered for this phase, and we also see an extremely positive development. In fact, it is much, much less, as the Minister has already said: Some 69 000 workers are registered for phase five of the corona-short work, and that does not mean that this will be taken into account then, because some of the short-time work may not be used at all, as it has been seen in the past. All of these measures have made sure that we are at this good level today in terms of unemployment, namely, with a total of 334,000 unemployed, which is a little less than two years ago, that is, before the Corona crisis. This is certainly a success model that Austria has created in recent months and last year in the course of the corona crisis, and this has to do with labour market policy. Mr Stöger, Mr Drobits, it has been done a lot, precisely because we are fighting unemployment and by no means against the unemployed. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Ribo.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we face many challenges in the labour market, we see. In my constituency, about two weeks ago, there was a newspaper report on the fact that a well-known hostess locks his inn completely because he no longer finds a cook. This is an effect of the shortage of skilled workers, We feel in many areas. I draw on my region, Graz, Graz environment, which is a very, very thriving and pulsating region, as an example: There are many open jobs and at the same time about 15,000 people are looking for work. So there is still a lack of matching, because there may be some initiative missing so that we can actually better integrate the unemployed into the labour market. Yes, we are facing very big challenges. In the same way, we face major challenges in the field of care. There is a great deal of demand for mobile services as well as for stationary services, but at the moment care beds cannot be provided because there are too few skilled staff. No question, there are great challenges; we can master them together if we pursue good policy, we were elected to do so. By the way: With screaming speeches and the questionable vocabulary you use, Mrs Belakovich, you have not made any contribution to the fight against unemployment. We will continue to strive – this is our task as government parties – to strengthen the labour market and to fight unemployment in a massive way. I think we're on a good way, the numbers are talking about it anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e14038	Mrs Ragger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e14060	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Estimated Minister! Mr Gödl, when do you finally start by making good policies? [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I believe that the only jobs that are really safe – that is what Old Federal Chancellor Kreisky, I think, once said – are those in the broadcasting or public service. These are the only safe jobs, all the others are to work out market policy. I think we should get out of our ivory tower in politics and really look at reality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Straster.]] Mr Koza has already said today that we have landed at a pre-crisis level, there are now only more than 260 000 or 270 000 unemployed. – But you have to see how much effort we have made to get back at pre-crisis level, and there is no word that there were 270 000 unemployed in the past. If you look at the statistics that say that there are 120 000 long-term unemployed, you have to ask yourself: Where do these labour market programmes come from? They must also respond sooner or later to the long-term unemployed if they are not only in training or qualification. It turns out that the approaches to qualification are wrong. As Mrs Ewing mentioned earlier, There are 31,000 job offers and 29 000 job seekers in Upper Austria. – In the end, something wrong happened in the qualification, because – unfortunately, this is the reality, and I see that every day in my valley and in the area of under-carriers – there is nothing going on with the companies and the companies do not get any staff. The approach must therefore be a more flexible, faster and more economically tailored approach so that people get into employment and get out of the AMS. You don't need new AMS employees, but you have to get people out of the AMS to get them back into the jobs. [[Abg. Gödl: Yes!]] We need to create these approaches. I expect this from a Minister of Labour and a more flexible labour market policy. If we do, we will also achieve a sustainable reduction in the number of long-term unemployed, which ultimately includes labour market policies. - That's the first point. The second point is: You only need to look at your chambers once! There is nothing in Austria where the Chamber of Labour does not block the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce. We have been talking for years, no, about starting new care professions for decades. We've been talking to Gust Wöginger about a nursing education for three periods, and he says: Now we're going to Switzerland to look at this! – But it is never passing. For the past 15 years, the Swiss have had a nursing education, in the course of which one begins to introduce young people into a care profession, and one even manages to accompany them on their way. Of course, many changes will be necessary in Austria so that we can introduce this, but we have to be able to think of new occupations in the care system and other teaching professions at some point. These are points that we ultimately need to work together with our Minister for Labour. My last criticism: If there are already so many people in poverty and we have today a request from Mr Angerer on energy poverty, which will then be moved blindly from one committee to another, I will give you a tip on how the French have solved what they have done with long-term unemployed: They have all trained them into energy consultants by setting up a fund of 2.5 million euros that the GDF Suez has fed. For example, they have trained long-term unemployed into energy consultants, sent them out and made sure that energy costs are reduced. This is a solution that I would like to see recognised in Austria, too. You can only appeal to the Minister that he will do the same. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e14108	Member of the Seemayer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e14130	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! When Mr Zopf mentioned the history of Saint Martin earlier, you, Mr Federal Minister, were not meant. Since tax money has been distributed, it must already be noted that all the proposals that the SPÖ makes in the context of these agenda items are rejected as to how tax money is to be paid to workers. But if you look at how the ÖVP distributes tax money, then you see what comes to light. That's not unknown anymore. In the short work phase five: There are now two models, one that is very clearly addressed to the sectors affected by Corona, and one that, as Mr Loacker has pointed out, is a model similar to that used to be the short work. Unfortunately, sectors such as urban tourism, trade fair or event technology are still affected by measures. It would also be better for us not to need the corona short work there. However, there is also a need for proper economic utilization, which will not be possible with the abolition of corona short work, since the companies and the companies need appropriate orders and work to cope with it. Mr Federal Minister, if you create the right programmes and put in place the right measures, you will also be able to get out of the corona short work. If we do not succeed, we will probably need an extension of short work at the end of the year. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] There is a request from the FPÖ for a course premium, which, I believe, will be submitted according to my speech. I can say that we are happy to support it. However, whether a premium for the graduation exam at the end of the teaching period leads young people 15 years of age to make a teaching rather than go to school remains rather questionable. Many other factors play a role in this decision, including the parents' experience in their jobs. When parents at jobs as skilled workers have experienced the poorer working conditions than those who have attended a higher school, they will hardly suggest a lesson to their children. These working conditions, which should actually fit, include, of course, issues such as the situation of working time, how many overtime must be done, whether Shiftwork needs to be done, whether you can plan your vacation yourself and much more. The current demand for the extension of the maximum working time limits, as we have them in industry, certainly does not take us further. Those who wish to have skilled workers in the future must not only provide good training, good apprenticeship training; they must also offer good working conditions for the post-teaching period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e14178	Next speaker: Mr Erwin Anger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e14202	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We are all happy now that the economy has started and unemployment has fallen. I'd say, It is not the work of the government, it is because people are afraid that their money is gone, and everyone is investing in devils coming out – therefore the economy is God's thanks. However, we have the situation that almost 400 000 people are still unemployed and reported to the AMS. Unfortunately, Mr Minister, there are also young people who, after their training, land directly at the AMS. That's where I ask myself the question: What's going on in this system? Do we perhaps make up young people in the wrong direction? - You shake your head. In the economy we lack skilled workers, the economy is looking for apprentices, does not find apprentices – that is a huge problem. In the sectors, up to 60 percent of companies have a strong shortage of skilled workers. They hardly take any action in this area. We have already called for multiple apprenticeship support, on the one hand for the companies, with the help of a flower bonus, that means that a company receives a grant throughout the course of the course – unfortunately, all these applications were rejected. We have also called for image campaigns for teaching to make the teaching more attractive – I do not notice that the government is doing anything in this direction – and I have already made a request in a committee regarding a graduation premium. I shall now make this request again, namely: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think this is a very useful measure, Mr Minister. We have about 100,000 apprentices in Austria, 30,000 are finished each year. The money would be good investment. 5 000 of which they can then use for a master's exam. Of ten apprentices, three become entrepreneurs. – This would be an investment in the future, an investment in our system, an investment in the formation of our young people. In this sense, I hope that you will support the proposal. - Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[18:03]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e14337	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Klaus Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e14366	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! Minister! Mr Kocher, at the beginning I have a question to ask you as the former head of a research institute with a very long tradition of working on economic and social science research results, exactly, efficiently working, providing them truthfully and correctly so that politics can start something and we can continue to work here in the National Council: How are you doing when Mr. Klubobmann makes short – and the presumption of innocence – exactly the opposite? If he makes surveys fake when he is manipulated when lubricating money is paid – how do you feel about it? I've known you for a long time now and I've been watching this for a long time, I'm really asking you: How do you feel about it? How are you doing? – This is my question I would like to ask you before I go to the apprentices. The stepchild in Austria has always been the apprentice in the last decades. As a social democracy, we simply said that such an emergency training fund for apprentices would now be irrelevantly important in the Corona era. We have tabled the 2020 proposal. My colleague Angerer, as a liberal, has now talked about the apprentices. In 2021 this has been rejected. - Why don't you deal with it? Why should thousands of young people not be able to work just because this government has nothing left for the apprentices because it does not create training facilities? Thousands of open teaching places in Austria simply cannot be occupied. Her predecessor said that the apprentices should be flexible, they must go out into the federal states. – Quite honestly: How's that going? To finance a life – to pay rent, to pay electricity, to pay the heating, where you already know that this will cost more at 500 euros a year – how should this go? How do you want someone to commute? You don't deserve a ministerial salary, you don't have a chauffeur, these are parents who can't afford it. Why does the government do exactly nothing in this direction? Why can't this be done for young people? Why are the millions not investing in the apprentices? Instead, they invest millions in marketing strategies and the like. I think these are things that simply do not fit, Mr Minister, and I really ask you to take this into your hands so that the apprentices are trained decently: To create teaching workshops, to give apprentices the opportunity to go to vocational school and then to make a good education in the vocational school, to provide them with English lessons, to provide leisure opportunities, to provide enough teachers. Talk to Mr Fassmann as Minister for Education. These are things that we need quite, very urgently. If an education requirement is made up to 18 years old, why is there no training guarantee up to 25 that someone who leaves school can start a teaching? These things should be possible, Minister. It doesn't cost millions. This costs much less than promoting corporations that already have so much money, and then not even tax them.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e14403	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. Before we come to the votes, do I, as agreed, ask all the political groups whether we can proceed immediately? - Well, that's what I'm doing. [[18:07:55]] Vote on agenda items 13 to 23
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e14433	We shall come to the vote moved on the reports of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 13: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements in the field of social security between the Republic of Austria and Canada, in 1031 of the Supplements, in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Whoever gives his consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Vote on agenda item 14: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1084 of the supplements. Who's for asking him for a sign? – This is also accepted by a majority. I accept Amendment No 1900/A(E) to the Committee on Economic, Industrial and Energy. Agenda item 15: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the report referred to in § 3 para. 5 of the Federal Law on the establishment of the Covid-19 crisis management fund for March 2020 until July 2021, submitted by the Federal Minister for Labour, III-401 of the Supplements. Who is for this consideration? – This is the majority, accepted. Agenda item 16: Draft federal law amending the Mother Protection Act, including title and receipt in 1086 of the Supplements. If you vote in favour of this bill, do I ask for a sign of approval? – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent to the draft law in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. Vote on agenda item 17: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1087 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? - That's the majority. This report has been taken note of. Vote on agenda item 18: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1088 of the supplements. Who's calling for it? – The report has been taken note of by a majority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Erwin Angerer, ladies and gentlemen, on the introduction of an apprenticeship premium. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Agenda item 19: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1089 of the supplements. Whoever is for this knowledge, I ask him for a sign. – The report has been taken note of by a majority. Agenda item 20 vote Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1090 of the supplements. Whoever is for this knowledge, I ask him for a sign. – The report is adopted by a majority. The vote on agenda item 21 will be taken at the next voting time. Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1091 of the supplements. Who's calling for it? – The report is adopted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 22: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1092 of the supplements. Who's for it? – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 23: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1093 of the supplements. Who's calling for it? – The report has been taken note of by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Alois Stöger, ladies and gentlemen, on 'financial assistance for people who have been unemployed for a long time'. If you are in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. [[18:12:41]] 24. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (958 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the 1995 Trade Statistic Law (1057 d.a.) 25. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (1033, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia on the conclusion of the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia on mutual promotion and protection of investment (1058b.b.) 26. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (1032b._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Croatia on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Croatia on the promotion and protection of investment (1059 d.a.) 27. Point Report of the Economic, Industrial and Energy Committee on the Government Template (1036, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Malta on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and Malta on the promotion and mutual protection of investment (1060 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e14695	We shall now proceed to the agenda items 24 to 27, on which the debates will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. As the first speaker on these agenda items, Mr Peter Haubner spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e14725	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I'm talking about the Trade Statistic Law today. Austria is well known to be a very successful export country. We earn 6 out of 10 euros abroad, 5 out of 10 euros in Europe. We have 62 000 exporting companies in our country and an export rate higher than 50 percent of GDP, and every second job is directly or indirectly linked to exports. It is also very clear that as an export nation, we are quite far ahead in the global ranking. If you look at the per capita export rate, you can see that we are in the seventh place worldwide. These are the encouraging export data of the Austrian economy, and it is of course also important that there are statistical surveys. External trade statistics are an important source of data and a basis for many multilateral and bilateral negotiations, and of course we are always trying to make the statistics, namely the surveys for making as simple as possible, and this new measure is being adopted. There are, as we know, two international external trade statistics: one on the extra-EU trade dealing with exports and imports of European countries and third countries, and the other is the intra-EU trade statistics covering trade within the EU. Today we are dealing with the modernisation of intra-EU trade statistics. One of the key elements of this modernisation is, of course, the complete changeover to electronic reporting systems. This involves an increase in data quality. With this novel, we perform a gap in the digital landscape and set the course for a qualified single-flow system. This is very important because it is a simplification for entrepreneurs and brings about substantial modernisation. This new system also does not include the direct collection of the Intra-EU import page, and this is a very important point for our companies, as it is expected that the statistical burden on them will be substantially reduced, ladies and gentlemen. [[Weratschnig and Mr Jakob Schwarz were in favour of the ÖVP.]] I think that we are again taking a right step towards promoting the competitiveness of our economy and that it is also very important that we always have good data for our negotiations and for our agreements in the international conference of the economy. In this respect, I am glad that we have decided on this today and that we are making a contribution to the modernisation and debureaucratisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e14769	Next speaker: Mr Christoph Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e14790	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! In We are in favour of a serious participation in this Parliament. While requests, if they come from the opposition, are either rejected or postponed by the government groups, no matter how reasonable or unreasonable they are, we will agree to the points discussed here together because they should or should be carried out. That's what you see: “The comparison makes you sure” to say it with the advertising of a large electric group from the past. However, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity, Mrs Federal Minister, if we are already talking about the opportunities and risks for the Austrian economy, to say the following: The pandemic is not over. The consequences, including in the economic field, are not over. Although investments in Malta and elsewhere will be protected by EU law in the future, we still have a number of sectors and, above all, companies and entrepreneurs that still face serious difficulties. I would like to point out at this point that, for example, the entire industry of tourist guides in the city tourism sector has been operating since the beginning of 2020 – that is, before March! – de facto is without turnover. Their existence depends on the hardness fund, so there is at least a chance of survival since mid-March 2020. Mrs Bundesminister, we have mentioned it several times: It can't be that the hardening fund simply runs out for these industries too. What about it? Why is there no extension of the hardness fund? What about the sound technicians of events, what about many parts of the night gastronomy? We have a number of sectors that go with 2.5G or possibly only with 2G or 1G this winter and probably have no chance of making the corresponding revenues before next year, which allow the survival of the entrepreneurship wage. Why is the Federal Government asleep? Why simply run out of these promotions? You can check in individual cases whether there is a claim, and if you have enough revenue anyway, you don't have to get it either – we have the rules in other areas, for example in the case of fixed costs. And again, my assumption: If I make a request from the opposition now, the reaction of the first class comes through a delay or rejection, just because it comes from the opposition. Now I ask you, Mrs. Federal Minister, what are we supposed to do? – I can only remind you of the pult that you need action in this area, and hope that you will make the request because of my being postponed, sausages as it is done. In this sense, my appeal not only to agree on these legislative instruments, but also to do sensible things – now I look very deeply at the members of the Economic Association. [[towards ÖVP]] See that you're getting it on the line! I promise that I will agree to any extension of the hardness fund because I am committed to the small self-employed and know very well that among them thousands are often individuals whose existence depends on it. At the same time, it should be remembered that it is often women who hardly have a chance in the labour market at the age of 40 or 50, which is why many of them have become self-employed – in fact, doing what is expected of them – and now see their existence threatened. And then we have a federal government that sleeps in the pendulum clock and is unable to extend the hardening fund. In this sense, I hope for productive contributions and that the opposition requests may be delayed or rejected less, but that the failed It may be accepted. This helps the whole country and the government, which is already doing enough anyway, let us be honest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e14853	The next speaker was Mr Erwin Angerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e14878	Madam President. Minister! Yes, the agenda now actually contains the Trade Statistic Law and three Investment Protection Agreements, which are repealed. We can still talk about the three investment protection agreements, yes, we have also talked about them in the Committee. Investment protection is important, three agreements have been repealed and new rules will be needed. But the commercial statistical law that Mr Haubner has been dealing with very intensively? – I think many entrepreneurs are currently having other problems! I would like to address one of these problems, Mrs Minister, and perhaps you can say something about this in your speech. I don't know if you've been in contact with the industry, but an industry that is massively affected by the corona crisis is the hairdressing industry. There, too, many are drifted into the blackwork. The industry is struggling massively with this problem. There has also been a long-standing demand – also through the Chamber of Commerce, but the Chamber of Commerce is obviously not interested in it – that VAT should be reduced to 10 percent in this area. – Mr Head shakes his head; obviously the problem is known to him. It would be an important concern to me that you might also be thinking of such industries – I have just taken an example with the hairdressing industry, but there are 18 000 companies with thousands of employees in Austria – and think about getting to grips with this problem of blackwork. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e14908	The next speaker was Mrs Elisabeth Götze. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e14929	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters! I too am referring to the Trade Statistic Law and to the termination of trade agreements with Slovenia, Croatia and Malta – this is about technical changes that are necessary. However, I would like to take this opportunity to talk about something fundamental which, I believe, is very busy with us, and that is the EU: the opportunities that the EU offers us, certainly also the opportunities and, in part, the obligations. Founded in 1952 as a Montanunion, it is a great peace project, and this peace project works through a common market. Austria benefits greatly, we have already heard Mr Haubner mentioning the figures. Two thirds of imports and exports make Austria with the EU, about to the same extent, and so this common market, this single market, could also be said to increase our gross domestic product by more than 1,500 per year, by almost 1 600 euros per capita. This is much more than with other EU countries, so we benefit greatly from the EU. There are new challenges, and the EU is also addressing them, for example, the fight against the climate crisis and the fight against digitisation: All of this. together with the EU, we also create a common, EU-wide CO2 price. With the eco-social tax reform, we did this also in Austria. Several countries also have CO2 prices, but a common one is certainly a next step, in particular the border balance, to prevent these, as it is called, carbon leakage, i.e. companies moving outside the EU where CO2 is not being priced and thus have a competitive advantage. We must prevent that from happening in the future. [[Assembly with the Greens, with representatives of the ÖVP and the Abg. Krisper.]] I would therefore ask you to agree on these technical points, on these technical details. I think it is a good time to regain awareness of the importance of the EU. We are very happy to be part of this community of states.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e14975	The next speaker was Mr Helmut Brandstätter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e14996	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters, dear Seeher! To the purely technical: We no longer need these investment protection agreements because we have something better in the EU. That's very good. I would now like to replicate what Mr Haubner has said. Yes, we are very successful in exporting, and yes, Mrs Götze, within the EU we are very good, but we must continue to do so. Let's look at the numbers! As far as the export rate is concerned, for example, to South America it is only 0.9 percent, although it would be a huge export market, or only 2.1 percent to Asia – and we know that there is a particularly strong growth there. We also need to do more together within the EU, and this is probably only about free trade. Today I brought a book that I didn't just bring, because you should read it: [[towards Federal Minister Schramböck]] ‘The World is Flat’. [[The speaker keeps the book by Thomas L. Friedman up to date.]] You know that, Mrs. Federal Minister? – Yes, very well! [[Federal Minister Schramböck: I can do that now?]] [[the so-called book Federal Minister Schramböck]] This book by Thomas Friedman of the “New York Times” is so exciting because it is not new, it was written in 2005 and he has foresaw a lot of what you, Mrs. Federal Minister, have to deal with now, for example, the question of supplychains – all this is already being addressed in it – because this may become more difficult with Asia. Free trade is also addressed – and I am going a little further, I would very much like to talk about value-based free trade: We cannot say no, we are not dealing with nations, their regimes and their systems we may not like. No – we do not deal with them if they do not meet certain conditions, and for me the essential thing is, of course, the social sector and, of course, the environment. If I correctly understood the new Chancellor yesterday, he would like to make his first trip to Brussels to the Commission, and he will also talk about free trade. But then I ask the question why, if we – Mr Matznetter has also referred to it; it is obviously the suffering of the opposition – make a request for free trade in the committee, which is then simply worn off. I do not understand this because, as I said, it is not a question of free trade, but, of course, of value-based free trade, and in this respect I believe that we should also enter into a discussion that would benefit the whole country. Let me talk about value-based free trade – there's now an action -: You know this man, of course, that's a bad guy. [[Keeping a panel in height where you can see a photo of Jair Bolsonaro and the text: “The Planet vs Bolsonaro”]] This can be said very simply because he lit the Amazon. This is Jair Bolsonaro, and we can say, of course: Well, we don't want anything to do with the Brazilians, and don't buy them off. But that won't be enough. We must not only enter into a dialogue, but see what an Austrian NGO named Allrise is doing together with other NGOs in this regard, and this is to seek a criminal trial against Jair Bolsonaro before the International Criminal Court in The Hague. I can only say: Look This is what you're trying to do, please. “The Planet vs Bolsonaro” – you can see that on the Internet, you can support it. And I think it is important that it is also made a subject at this level, namely: This is about crimes against humanity. Other injustice regimes and leaders of injustice regimes have already come upon it, which means that something is classified as crimes against humanity. This is just about crimes against people, in which case we are dealing with crimes against the environment, because it threatens not only the lives of people in South America, in the Amazon area, but also us. - I don't have to give you a climate lecture. You know what the connection is. In this sense, I would like us to have a differentiated debate: Yes to trade, yes to free trade, also to value-based free trade. At the same time, however, we should accuse those who destroy our planet and experience what happens to them. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[18:30]] [[18:30:51]] Recovery of a request for the establishment of an investigation committee
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e15056	I declare that today's demand for 3/US has been withdrawn and that the desire for this is also a matter of a short debate. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e15074	However, I also announce that the request 4/US supported by at least 46 Members on the establishment of an investigation committee in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure on ‘Clarification of corruption accusations against members of the ÖVP (ÖVP Corruption Committee)’. This is in accordance with § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure to all Members. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. This shall take place after completion of the agenda. The assignment of the request to the Committee for Rules of Procedure shall be made in accordance with § 33 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure at the end of this sitting. On the current debate on the trade statistics law, I would like to give the floor to Mr Johann Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e15115	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! It is gratifying that the points that are now being discussed in this block, as it looks, will be taken by all the political groups. This is also an important signal to our economy. I am allowed to respond very briefly to the commercial statistical law – it has already been explained in detail by my previous speakers –: It is also about simplifications, about digitization, about a gap in digitization. This is important because if something is simplified, you also need less time to spend, and this can then be used in an entrepreneurial way elsewhere. That is why, as we have said, it is a matter of course that we support this. However, I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank all entrepreneurs in this country who have kept their business under very difficult conditions for the last one and a half years under this particular challenge. I would also like to thank those who are part of an industry that has actually come to an end, but now have the incentive to stimulate our economy. This is so important for them as an employer, for the people who find work with them, that is so important for the creation of value in this country, and that gives us all courage. Thank you very much for that. I can really wish them all the best for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e15146	Next speaker: Mr Maximilian Lercher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e15170	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, we will give our consent, and I believe that there is also a good sign for this House that there are materials that find approval across all party borders. Nevertheless, I believe that when we talk about parliamentarianism at this point, we must keep in mind what Mr Matznetter has already mentioned, namely that, of course, the opposition parties are also bringing in good, sensible legislative proposals, but these are constantly being postponed because of the power logic of the People's Party. If you are always talking about working together in the sense of Austria, it would be nice if you were to live this cooperation yourself. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Fireplaces.]] That would be very important for us and, as I believe, for this Republic too, because life is not a one-way road, and as you can see, you can be very, very quickly dependent on others again. When it comes to Austria, I think power logic has no place. I have seen, because a lot of competitiveness has been spoken of, how wealth is distributed in Austria, Mrs Minister. There are 46 people or families who have billions of assets. This will be those who benefit mainly from the corporate tax reduction. Why Give This money, which is free, is not the small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria who are conjured in every Sunday's speech? Why not give the volume that is being released to those who already bear the bulk of the tax burden, who guarantee the training places that are working day by day: the EPCs, the little ones, the middles who keep our export location running and who, in fact, also carry a large part of the tax burden? Why don't they get the money? – I tell you quite honestly: because they didn’t donate like that. This is the reason in all your decisions, as we now know from the chats. This is never about the real performance providers in this country, but only about those who have given you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] They're getting back now, and that's not okay, the business location didn't deserve it. Instead of promoting speculation and great wealth, please encourage the real economy that would be urgently needed to create employment so that value creation and prosperity are fairly distributed! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Haubner and Mr Hörl]] They deserve it and they've been waiting too long, Mrs. Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Obernosterer has admitted this in his speech today, I think, also unconsciously. I listened exactly when he said, Yes, the corporate tax is for the billionaires, but the rest comes anyway for the others. – This is a true word from your mouth! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hörl.]] If I have heard it properly, he has said so today, and he has said something true, because of course it is not right for the people to do what you are doing here. Relieve the real performance providers! Make You have a system change for all those who are already moaning under the pressure, who already pay too much and bring in too much! Let us relieve those who strive every day. – These are always your words in Sunday’s speeches. The small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in Austria are the ones you should focus on, not the big ones who are the donors. They've got enough. It's time for the others to get enough again, and that's why I'd ask. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Beak.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e15254	Now Mrs Federal Minister Margarete Schramböck has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e15276	Madam President. High house! In this context, of course, it is about the consequences to be derived from a European judgment, the so-called Achmea judgment. We often do not believe the consequences of these judgments, because of course they result in the lower protection of Austrian companies, which appear in Eastern Europe in particular as the largest investors. That is why I am concerned – and I thank you for your support in this context – that we do not decide on the agreements with these countries in Bausch and Bogen, but negotiate with each country, and that is what we do – to protect Austrian investment. It is also important that we do more to protect these investments. You know that I have been strongly committed to investment control, and we have also adopted the law together. This is a good law: We can now see for the first time transparent who takes over Austrian companies, as conditions are granted. It is also important that we continue to work on the European Union's side, because both are necessary: Openness on the one hand, but also less naïve than in the last 20 years on the other. I've experienced this myself. I worked in the IT industry, and – you know that – we've been sold out. We have been taken over, primarily not so much by Chinese, but by American companies, and these companies are now No more. You often wonder and wonder: Why are there no major technology companies in Europe? This is the task of the Commission – and I work intensively with it: There is a need for a new competition law for Europe, for protection of investment and for the protection of European companies, namely in state aid law. It is about China supporting companies with funding in the background, and that, by the way, for decades now, and therefore, European technology companies, especially technology companies, are no longer competitive with these Asian, especially Chinese, technology companies. It also needs an investment protection agreement with China. I do not think that what the European Commission is doing is to postpone the issue and injunctify it with other issues is a very good thing. We need investment protection for European companies, because they will not stop investing in China. I will do everything we can to get back to this and that the European Union is also taking action accordingly. They also raised another point: Productions. Yes, it is important to look at exactly these value chains, because it is not enough that we say we are giving everything to Asia and there will be no problem for us. Not only did Covid wake us up in this respect, but we had the subject before. It needs more value added in Austria and Europe. It is about keeping productions here, bringing productions back, because that also has to do with value added. I would like to address the issue of SMEs and support for SMEs. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that most of the EUR 40.8 billion in Covid aid has benefited Austrian SMEs, and this will also be the case with tax reform. In particular, the Austrian SMEs will benefit from the net increase of their employees. This will allow them to consume more, spend more, and that is also important and good so. I have recently been asked by a journalist why I am an ÖVP Minister of Economic Affairs for driving a demand-oriented model. – I am in favour of this because I am convinced that this is the right thing and because it is not about who used to say something in that direction, but about the fact that we support the economy, that we are boosting it at this stage, and that we are growing enormously. I wanted to share that with you. I would like to thank you for your support on the points put forward.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e15327	Next speaker: Mr Johann Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e15351	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! We have already mentioned a lot about this item on the agenda. One issue on the agenda is the resolution of agreements on mutual promotion and protection of investment. Thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, you have already given the relevant explanations why these resolutions are necessary. I should like to make a few points. Austria has not only concluded such agreements with EU countries, but also with third countries, a total of 48 at the Number. This concerns countries such as Egypt, Vietnam, Argentina and Malaysia, that is, countries from all over the world. What's this about? – It is about agreements on the security of investments, of course on a mutual basis. What measures are concerned? – It is primarily about the principle of fair and fair treatment. What's that supposed to mean? – It means protection of trust, the prohibition of refusal of law and, of course, transparency in judicial and administrative procedures. The protection against unlawful expropriation or the right to compensation for losses due to military acts is also included. It is, therefore, a number of points which are covered by these agreements. Because investment protection is so important, the Federal Government has also stated in the Government Convention that it will endeavour to set a legal framework within the EU in order to ensure legal certainty for investment. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is important that there is this legal protection, and it is to be supported that our Federal Government will make a great effort to create the appropriate framework in the area of the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e15394	Next speaker: Mrs Petra Oberrauner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e15415	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! I would also like to speak about the termination of the bilateral trade agreements and remind you that this termination is based on a judgment of the European Court of Justice which states that these bilateral agreements must be terminated because they are incompatible with Union law. 23 out of 27 EU Member States have signed. As a result, a contract to terminate the bilateral investment protection agreements with the Member States has been in force since 2020. Austria must terminate twelve contracts in order to avert infringement proceedings, that is why we will agree to that. The interesting thing is that since the ruling, large companies, investors and industrial associations have been storming in Brussels because they want to have a substitute for these investor protection agreements. The Commission has surrendered and announced the introduction of an EU-internal investor court by the end of this year, i.e. a special court in which investors can refer to Member States if these unloving laws, such as those relating to environmental protection or workers' protection, are adopted. This story has triggered a Déjà-vu with me. We've experienced something like that with Ceta before. If you remember: At that time it was also a private arbitration court and Mag. The core of the negotiations in Brussels was very sustainable, because it was simply not in our minds. Ms Schramböck spoke about the need to create comprehensive, effective legal protection for businesses in the internal market, and of course this investor court also means. However, the introduction of such a court may result in a chilling effect and states no longer adopt laws in sensitive areas such as worker protection or climate protection in advance of obedience and fear of expensive processes. It is therefore a conflict of interest between entrepreneurship and public interests, and it would be important to make a balanced proposal. Such an investor court, under the title of the site advantage, of course also creates privileges for companies, while public interests – such as the interests of workers, climate protection and so on – are not taken into account to the same extent. There are independent courts in the EU and I believe that they are better suited than private investor courts to deal with this issue in the sense of compensation, including involving public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e15457	Next speaker: Mrs Rebecca Kirchbaumer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e15482	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! Today we are talking about the Trade Statistic Law. The main aim is to provide relief for businesses. The many bilateral agreements between European states are no longer necessary in the form. It needs a pan-European solution and mechanisms to protect the domestic economy with its investment. Our Federal Minister is very committed to this. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We live in a globalized world, as an economic location in Europe, as an economic location in Austria. We as Europe must understand ourselves as a unity, and not every country should cook its own soup by only concluding individual agreements. To create a common framework will be an important instrument in the future. Not least has the pandemic shown us how important it would be to work together. Trade statistics also explain where we are in international competition in Austria – an important tool for the economy, which helps to keep the corresponding jobs. Businesses relieve, red tape – this is what businessmen in Austria need to do in order to deal with what they like to do and what they can, namely to be entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs. After all the excitement in the last days, it is now up to us all, which picture we carry outside. Scandalization damages the reputation of Austria. The winter season is at the doorstep, we need guests and employees to do so. Please give us a different picture! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We are facing a winter season, which is very important for all of us economically. In order for guests to come to us, we need to reflect on our warmth and on our strengths. Let's live more warmth and less shame! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e15527	Mr Christoph Matznetter has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e15548	Mrs. Federal Minister, you are the occasion for me to speak again. To clarify: It's not an unreasonable judicature. We have a European Union in which we must rely on the legal system of the other country, and therefore it is Reasonable that we mutual recognition of these things and follow these things. We also expect the same from those companies that invest in Austria, who, if there are problems, have to turn to Austrian justice and come to their right here. We are in the midst of this long-term political debate and issue of investment protection: Should there be a special jurisdiction for corporations? I recall the long-lasting discussion on Ceta. What will grow from such an agreement at the end of the day? – The fact that a Canadian or, if we might also make an agreement with the USA, an American group is going to come and force a country like Austria to set up rules that the local legislator has not established. Honestly, with all love for liberalism, this is not a fair field of play, because the small entrepreneur, the individual entrepreneur, the consumer has only jurisdiction; he has no season of lawyers and no special jurisdiction where he receives damages. This breakthrough is not a reasonable system, so the EU system is to be welcomed as such. And especially in times like those in which a court in Poland thinks it must break the entire legal order of the European Union, it is probably the most unfavorable time to philosophy about the need for any special arrangements. Within the European Union, the rule of law, mutual recognition, mutual implementation must apply everywhere. If citizens have to pay their transport sentences from Italy or Croatia at home, then large companies will also be entitled to submit to the rules there. – Full stop at this point. The other part, Mrs Federal Minister, that you say it needs reasonable investment control, is, of course, a necessity. I just remember – I was not involved myself – the precursor law that we had with the Foreign Trade Act 2011. That's what we've already said: Please, if you acquire more than 25 percent, you must obtain a corresponding approval from the competent Federal Minister or the competent Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs on critical questions! This is reasonable, for example, because it could be cases where, for example, there is a critical infrastructure. Now I look very deeply at you, just because you were at Telekom Austria Manager: What do you do about it now being sold with the support of the Öbag, with the support of Mrs Hlawati, the critical infrastructure, namely the transmission masts? What are you doing about it, Mrs. Federal Minister? You can't even send a disaster report away if you don't have access to it! Soon we'll start selling the streets. Again: If you take this seriously, you'll have to ride out immediately and say: End with these experiments to sell critical infrastructure somewhere! If you doubt that the critical infrastructure is, you may want to take a look at the areas of Germany in which the flood disaster was in the early autumn. How important it would have been to have a catwarn system based on mobile phones to warn people in time so that they don't drown in the water! There were hundreds of dead. I'm leaving out the laughing lashet now. Since, Mrs. Minister, you haven't stepped in, you didn't immediately get introduced and didn't immediately say: No, Mrs. Catasta – who is now sitting in Öbag instead of Thomas Schmid – and Mrs. Hlawati – is sitting as future boss in the Supervisory Board, stop with it, whether it's pleasant to the slims or not! They're not your friends anyway, the Slim family. I don't understand, Mrs. Federal Minister. Da_te you should step in on the point that we cannot lose the infrastructure in this country, so that it is possible to preserve critical infrastructure, because there is an overarching interest in not just the pure balance sheet beauty interest of any shareholder. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that would be a first approach to a reasonable policy, and if Margarete Schramböck became the champion there, I would be very pleased about it. You'll have my applause for that, Mrs. Federal Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e15609	Mr Jörg Leichtfried is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e15630	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The question of arbitration is one that I think needs to be discussed very intensively, especially in the historical context. If you want to discuss arbitration courts as a whole – international arbitration courts, commercial arbitration courts – you have to ask, of course, why it has been the case since the beginning. What do you think you invented this, Mrs. Federal Minister? – The Germans invented that, exactly. [[Call the ÖVP: The Germans!]] [[Abg. That's right!]] The Germans have therefore invented this because they were in a situation as an export nation in which markets should be opened up in very, very uncertain areas. I have to admit openly, at that time the arbitration courts and all the standards around them also had a certain meaning. The sense was that, on the one hand, the investor was protected – from the conditions of injustice, from anarchy, from revolutions and what else could happen – but on the other hand also benefited the country in which otherwise no investors would have come. So it was actually a situation in a certain way, in which both could benefit from it. In my opinion, however, this original idea has developed into something very, very bad, namely into a system that provides protection for investors and investors from legal institutions, and there have been a large number of cases in which this has actually been the case. The most well-known procedure on this issue was the Vattenfall procedure. As a result, a Swedish energy group complained to the Federal Republic of Germany, when it decided to get out of nuclear energy, with the aid of the Investor State Dispute-Setletment-Clauses – so these clauses, which were supposed to create peace and peace between states and investors – and the nuclear withdrawal as a scenario, as a reason for this complaint. Ladies and gentlemen, this, of course, is totally contrary to the original meaning of these clauses. Both Sweden and the Federal Republic of Germany are legal states, both Sweden and the Federal Republic of Germany are democracies, both Sweden and the Federal Republic of Germany have a functioning legal system, which is why I believe it is a perversion of this original system and leads to large investors being placed outside the rule of law. And of course this is not possible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can give you a lot of examples. It can be seen that it is countries with less defensiveness than those of large economic giants such as Germany who are suffering from these systems. In Ecuador, for example, it was the case that Ecuador had to pay one billion US dollars because the country had unilaterally gone out of oil promotion contracts with an American oil company that had directly led to Amazon's deforestation. This is of course something, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, which is probably unacceptable to you too. It can't be that private arbitration courts are continuing Amazon logging. This is really something that is deeply opposed. I think we agree. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Also very interesting: Uruguay. Uruguay, for example, has decided to strengthen non-smokers protection, which is also very remarkable and very useful. The response was a complaint from the Philip Morris Group. The Philip Morris group was able to put the country under massive pressure. It is not about how it is ultimately judged, but the possible pressure on legislation is, of course, something to be deeply rejected. Canada had to be responsible to several oil companies under the Nafta Free Trade Agreement, including a situation that we certainly do not consider to be positive together, ladies and gentlemen, and that is also the result of these contracts. Now, of course, you can ask what that means to us and why we are discussing it today. On the one hand, it raises the question of whether there is a need for action within Europe. I doubt whether it really exists, because the European Union is a rule of law and the European Union has been formed by the rule of law and, in my opinion, European groups naturally comply with the laws of the Member States concerned and also have to accept court decisions. [[Federal Minister Schramböck: He exists!]] [[Federal Minister Schramböck: Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary!]] That's one. The second is that, of course, the European Union as a whole also acts as a European player. [[Abg. Gerstl: Talk time!]] What fascinated me so much: It was never really an issue in Austria, there are innumerable agreements that the European Union has concluded, including these investor-state-dispute-setting agreements. Suddenly, Ttip came to us, and for the first time Ttip was seriously discussed about this question, and we have seen that in Austria we do not want these investor-state-dispute-setment-clauses, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e15735	Mr Gerald Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e15766	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Wöginger has been worried that I would talk too long. I don't know what he's afraid of this time of day. I don't know. I'm also quick with the distribution, so if the ÖVP is too slow, I can also switch to a distribution branch, but that's not what it's all about. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Gerstl.]] – Mr Gerstl is so loud. I don't know, in my ear it's running out, in your maybe too. This is something quite different, not about colleagues Gerstl, but about the trade statistical law and trade agreements. [[New calls from the Abg. Gerstl.]] – Mr Gerstl, you could also speak, then it would not be so loud now. I'll get a tinnitus. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the NEOS as well as cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] By the way: For you, ladies and gentlemen, you are normally talking about hanger, because it makes this point more precisely. [[Cheerfulness with NEOS and ÖVP.]] [[(Abg. Ottenschlager: This is]] Good: So, there are now several agreements being terminated because it was necessary to take a step at European level, but the question is: [[Abg. Gerstl: Different? Which one?]] What is the replacement for these agreements that are terminated? It is all agreed that international trade agreements make an essential contribution – Mr Stögmüller's colleague, thanks many times – to a functioning free trade. Of course, this must work all the more within the European Union than it works beyond the European Union. What is particularly disturbing to me here is that the ÖVP is always forcing economic issues outwards, but if it goes inwards, because of doing something really for free trade, then it is quiet. Minister Köstinger has put herself in place against the Mercosur agreement – and Minister Schramböck is looking at how her colleague in government sabotages free trade with my own propaganda. This could, of course, be seen differently as an economic minister, but one could say something instead of just silently. [[Federal Minister Schramböck looks at her smartphone.]] – Maybe write She is now sending a text to Minister Köstinger. [[Federal Minister Schramböck: I am writing what you say! I'll do this digitally!]] That's great, Mrs. Minister writes what I'm saying. But now I'm proud, I've never done that before. [[Federal Minister Schramböck: Yes, that's it!]] I've never done that before. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I think I should talk a little bit about the digital office and about such apps, maybe you'll also write along. That would be cool, too. [[Federal Minister Schramböck: You can register with me again!]] Yes, I'm going to make a residence report again and see if the app's going to be further than it was once. [[Federal Minister Schramböck: Is she!]] But back to the Mercosur Agreement: It's a joke what the farmer's government is doing because of a few kilos of beef. [[Cheerfulness with NEOS and SPÖ.]] So now don't pretend you'd sell a beef carnation less if the Mercosur agreement came about! That was my concern: This is a good word for free trade. – I thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e15908	Mr Gerald Hauser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e15951	Madam President. High house! I have a green fan club, which I really notice with joy. You miss my plates! Great! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] At least I was very successful when the greens miss something. So it works, boards work, I think that's good. This has, by the way, successfully introduced Jörg Haider into politics, and I am a liberal, of course, happy to carry on well. If that's so good for the greens, I'll try and prepare a table again for tomorrow. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and Greens.]] But, well, it doesn't always have to be a table. I don't know how much time I have, but I really have to say that with joy: I have never received a closed applause from the Green Group. Sensational! [[Cheerfulness, Yeah-Rufe and congratulation with the greens.]] You have to do this as a blue one. You have to do this as a blue one! That's not bad at all, I really feel honored. [[Call the Greens: This is a great thing!]] Thank you, that's a great thing. I should also like to say something on the subject in terms of content, perhaps that would not be bad, in principle on the free trade agreements: I really see a huge difference between the demands that the ÖVP makes over and over again, and what it actually does, for example, the Mercosur Agreement, my dear friends, last week in the Committee on Agriculture. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Now I have to address the ÖVP, perhaps I am able to raise even the applause closed by the ÖVP. That wouldn't be bad either! ÖVP and Mercosur Agreements and Agriculture Committee – what happened? – On the one hand, we continue to work in the Committee on Agriculture, including with support from colleagues Hechenberger and Hermann Gahr, to strengthen agriculture, rural areas. We are proud of our agriculture, which I would like to maintain in the direction of our farmers. But what is the contradiction? – The contradiction is quite clear: While we as the Freedom Party are saying that we are serious and we want to protect our agriculture, the small-structured agriculture, from cheap imports from abroad – I am addressing the Mercosur agreement – there is a crack across the ÖVP. The Mercosur Agreement would have long since failed and history had not been voted for the renegotiation of the Mercosur Agreement by four EU mandates of the ÖVP in January. That's the point! The decision in the European Parliament was pointed to a button, and exactly the four votes from the ÖAAB and the Economic Federation, for example from colleague Barbara Thaler–Tyrolin, which hurt me very much – who were in favour of extending the negotiations on Mercosur agreements – that is incredible – otherwise we would have the whole thing off the table. That's what you have to say, that's the point! [[It was in favour of FPÖ and NEOS and representatives of the Greens.]] Again applause from the Greens, so today I'm really fine. I feel incredibly honored. [[Cheerful for Greens and NEOS.]] This must be done once and for all: in the course of a speech, I should like to hear a number of intermediate applause from the Green Group. I would normally say: I do everything wrong, but today I really seem to do everything right. [[general hustle and bustle]] So, now it goes on: We always say Austria is the gourmet shop. We have a sensational, great agriculture, mountain farming, and what are we doing? – You have to go inside, you have to try to make a clear line in the ÖVP. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] Mr Gahrund Mr Hechenberger would already support us, who know how necessary and important agriculture is, but what are you doing? – You want to make a big pact, a Mercosur agreement, where we trade cars for cheap beef. That's exactly the wrong way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So, dear farmers, dear friends, one thing I tell you: You are with the Freedom Party, with us perfectly stopped when it comes to protecting the mountain farming and agriculture. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Zarits: “Stop”!]] [[Abg. Wöger has that Hand.]] The light at the speaker's coil shines. I almost spent my speaking time without a table. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] - Please, more serious! We really need a clear line. It cannot be that we are competing our agriculture, our fine food shop through cheap exports from the Mercosur countries to death and producing a massive CO2 print there, because we know that the cultivation areas are expanded by the deforestation of the rainforests. [[Abg. Gerstl: Do you notice that you are contradicting yourself?]] This is a total contradiction. So: Go into you, let's see that we're taking this agreement away, and we're doing something for our agriculture! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e16105	Mr Klubobmann Wöginger, I have seen you and I have explained to you that I am going to give you the floor to a debate on the Rules of Procedure, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Wöinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e16134	Madam President. [[Call:Are you even the clubman]] [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] I would suggest that we should not continue these filibuster speeches in an even greater number here. [[Call the FPÖ... what you're saying!]] – That was the impression of the last speeches. We also know what it's all about. [[call to the FPÖ]] Two important words are missing in the request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry. The master of zeros, Kai Jan Krainer, has also made a mistake and has forgotten two essential words, namely the words: the execution. And if these words do not stand inside, then of course this would not be enforceable or feasible. Therefore, a proposal on kindness: I think we could withdraw the reports for filibusters' speeches, and we could interrupt the session until the distribution has been made in the correct version. [[Call:No...]] - That's just a proposal. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report and for his excellent report.]] This is an important subject, not a question, but so that we do not yet see the spectators - and I would also like to announce that the Federal Minister has an important follow-up date, and that we will then also be in the opinion that this is all right across all political borders. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] As I said, the offer from our group would be there, I have not discussed this directly with the coalition partner, but whether we are hearing filibuster speeches now or whether we are saying that we are interrupting for a certain period of time – I would consider Second to be more sensible.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e16218	Is there another word on business treatment? – Mr Klubobmann Deputy Leichfried. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e16252	Madam President. I should like to comment on what Mr Wöginger has said. My knowledge is that, of course, the debate we have now held is a very serious one. It was important and interesting. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] I think it is much too rarely discussed in this House about free trade agreements. Furthermore, my knowledge is that the distribution is almost complete anyway. If this could somehow be determined, then the whole thing might be even easier to solve. I believe that the final decision is nevertheless taken by the President, and I think that is also a good one. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e16307	More word messages on business treatment? - That's not the case. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In this case, the Rules of Procedure shall decide, and the President shall comply with the Rules of Procedure. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to draw your attention to this: It is true that the text of the request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry has already been distributed to all political groups and because of a technical problem in Parliament's management, as I have been told, it has not yet been possible to verify it. [[Call the ÖVP: Because two words are missing!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP as well as calls to SPÖ and FPÖ.]] I can make this communication to you – I do not know how it is with your confidence. You can trust me to tell you what the Directorate of Parliament has to say to me. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, FPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] I would therefore like to inform you that, pursuant to § 23a of the Rules of Procedure, electronic distribution is also possible. As I have been told, as I can see from the information provided by the Directorate of Parliament, this has already been done to all Members. In this case, I would suggest that, as planned, we should now proceed on the agenda if all the political groups agree, take the votes and then enter the short debate on setting up an investigation committee. Do you agree if I go that way? - Yeah, I'll do it like that. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e16362	No one has made any mention of this, and that concludes the debate. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the votes. Agenda item 24: Draft federal law amending the Trade Statistic Law, including the title and receipt in 958 of the Supplements. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a corresponding sign. – The draft law has been adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives the consent in third reading, I ask for a sign. The draft law was adopted unanimously at third reading. Agenda item 25: Proposal from the Economic, Industrial and Energy Committee for the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia on the conclusion of the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia on mutual promotion and protection of investment, in 1033 of the Supplements, in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to be approved. Who's calling for it? – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda item 26 vote: Proposal from the Economic, Industrial and Energy Committee for the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Croatia on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Croatia on the promotion and protection of investment, in 1032 of the Supplements, in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to be approved. This is so unanimously accepted. Agenda item 27 vote: Proposal from the Economic, Industrial and Energy Committee for the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Malta on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and Malta on the promotion and mutual protection of investments, in 1036 of the Supplements, in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to be approved. Who's calling for it? – This too is unanimously accepted. The agenda is exhausted. [[Call ÖVP:Juhu!]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[19:21:21]] Short debate on a request to set up an investigation committee
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e16431	As already announced, we are now entering the brief debate on the request 4/US for the establishment of an investigation committee on ‘Clarification of corruption accusations against ÖVP members (ÖVP corruption investigation committee)’. This request was, as already announced, partly distributed to all Members of Parliament electronically. Is that so? - Good. The request shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e17662	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time in a short debate for 5 minutes. However, the first speaker or the founder of this request will be given 10 minutes. This is Mr Kai Jan Krainer, whom I would like to give the floor to. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e17689	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krainer, Mr Hafenecker and Mr Krisper, vice-president of the S & D groups, Mr FPÖ and Mr NEOS, today called for an investigation committee to be set up on ‘Clarification of corruption accusations against members of the EIA (ÖVP) corruption investigation committee’. We bring in the desire because it is necessary. It is necessary, in fact, because of the results of the Ibiza Investigation Committee, and because it was unable to complete its work by early turning off of the ÖVP; and it is also necessary – which has been extended in recent days – because of the fact that the ÖVP, ÖVP representatives, probably – as it is actually clear from the chats for everyone who reads the 104 pages and does not throw away – have misused tax funds in favour of the former short chancellor Sebastian Kurz Feuer in order to help him to take the power and also win elections and to manipulate them in truth. Anyone who does not just throw away the 104 pages of the WKStA, but actually reads, knows it is. There's everything in there. Not criminal – we do nothing here in criminal law, the courts, the prosecutors, that make judges – but politically, morally, it is clear what happened here, and that is what is being examined, that is clarified, because we see: There are swamps of corruption in Austria that have to be dried. [[Abg. Straster: The SPÖ!]] In order to know exactly what swamps need to be drained, it is now necessary to examine exactly what the ÖVP has done. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Therefore, the subject-matter of the investigation is "the guarantee of benefits to natural and legal persons associated with the ÖVP by bodies of the execution of the federal government in the period from 18. ==References== October 2021 – which is the beginning and the end of the period when Mr. Kurz Kurzkanzler was – “as well as preparatory work on the basis of and from the beginning of the “Project Ballhausplatz” on the basis of a long-term merger of a larger number of persons active in the institutions of the Federal Government, consisting of members of the Federal Government, state secretaries and staff of their political offices, for party political purposes and the possible circumvention or violation of legal provisions and the resulting damage to the Confederation.” This is the subject of the investigation. The so-called evidence themes, that is, what we want to give this Committee of Inquiry for a mission, are the following: The “influence” – in particular – “of procurement and funding procedures”: This is what we now see in the WKStA's files, namely the commissioning of studies and surveys for the alleged favor of political decision-makers of the ÖVP, the “influence on procurement procedures in favour of politically related companies with the alleged objective of making indirect party funding”. Of course, the "Austria" tool needs to be examined just as specifically commissioned, then freezed, manipulated and then published – all for party-political purposes of the EIA. The next theme of evidence is the “influence on federal participations”. This is a subject that we have not finished in the Ibiza Investigation Committee. We all know, for example, how the ÖVP has taken the Novomatic influence on the casinos so that it can accommodate its people there. The “influence of investigations and investigation work” is a very important point, because we have seen from day one on due to the Ibiza Investigation Committee! – persons to be attributed to the ÖVP have begun to influence the investigations concerning Ibiza by preventing certain investigations by trying, in fact, to ensure that the WKSTA is not the responsibility here. We all know the e-mails, the chats that exist from this time also concern Mr Pilnacek, who was suspended in the meantime; and there the VfGH also said: Yes, this suspension is correct because this man is really suspected that he has acted unlawfully there or has acted in a way that justifys a suspension. These are the information flows relating to investigations by decision-makers of the EIAs. We have also found a number of evidences in the Ibiza Investigation Committee that, above all, Pilnaceks and others, but also the police – especially here by ÖVP-confidencer Holzer – have been given information to the ÖVP. We know that there are procedures for possible betrayal of house searches, not only up-to-date, but also from previous house searches. So there's really a lot of work – that's what you have to say – that this investigation committee will have. The last area is the “advancedness in the selection of staff”. There are also a number of points that have been dealt with in the Ibiza Investigation Committee, but others have remained open. That is, we are in truth continuing where the ÖVP wanted to prevent further investigation. But I can also say that, as a minority, we want to carry out this committee of inquiry as short and concentrated as possible. It's also an offer from us that we say: If the blockades we know from the Ibiza Investigation Committee, above all from the ÖVP, do not take place if there are enough meeting dates, not these senseless charges that have been entered into history as ÖVP days, which have been permanently loaded by people who have not been able to make any contribution if the ÖVP does not disturb and destroy the surveys by means of Rules of Procedure, and the persons who do not - - yes, they are still mint! [[Abg. Hanger: Please go!]] [[Abg. Scherak: Look! You wake up!]] – So if the information people don’t all suddenly feel that they don’t have to come anymore, because the ÖVP is turning this off, as we have experienced in the end, then we believe that – if there are really enough dates – we may even be able to finish in the first half of 2022. [[Abg. Belakovich: But this is rather unlikely!]] That's our offer. Of course, the files and the documents must also be included. So if the Federal Chancellor's Office and the Ministry of Finance, which were the last one to be special, are now to be delivered immediately and we do not have to go back to the VfGH, we must not re-establish an execution by the Federal President, which must then be carried out by the National Criminal Court, i.e. if the ÖVP cooperates, as is sometimes the case with investigation committees, as the past governments naturally did, then we believe that we can really be done at a reasonable time. This is our offer to carry out this committee and this information work together. I can say from the Ibiza Investigation Committee that four parties cooperated, insofar as, even if they were not all of the same opinion, they did not all think the same, they worked constructively to finish the investigation. If this one party, which has been particularly disturbed, is also constructively involved this time, then, I believe, we can really be done in June and possibly already have the report in July in plenary. This is our offer that we carry out this briefly and quickly. For all of us, it is necessary for us to follow the accusations of corruption that concern the members of the ÖVP, and then to clearly indicate where corruption has happened in our opinion, and to put in place the relevant legal measures so that we do not allow this corruption for the future, and, of course, also to name those who are politically responsible for this corruption. This is the task of the whole Parliament, not just the opposition, but all of us here. I invite everyone to participate constructively, because Parliament's control activities are as important as budgetary sovereignty and as important as the legislative function. This is our task so that the institutions can work. I hope that the ÖVP sees this as its task. It also does you well to help you clean up, even if it is perhaps your own people or politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e17776	All other speakers in this debate have a speaking time of 5 minutes, but you know that anyway. Mr Andreas Hanger, you are speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e17801	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are currently experiencing a rather rough start of a new committee of inquiry. [[Call the SPÖ: Please!]] Mr Krainer! Quite honest: An error can happen to anyone. I don't want to comment on that either, no question at all. He was also corrected, that's all right. I just thought: What would have happened if this mistake had happened to someone else, and Mr Krainer would have taken the floor? – Of course, he would have celebrated this mistake, but this is a little bit of his political style. This must be taken note of as well. I would like to stand firm for my group - and I really think this is very, very serious -: We are very unbiased to this committee of inquiry. It is the legitimate right of an opposition party or of several opposition parties to bring in an investigation object, to control the executive – I will then talk about separation of violence – but it is also our legitimate right to point out that these accusations against us who are already here are unjust. We will have the files delivered, we will look at it, and we should look at it very unbiasedly, with less excitement, at ease. I am of the opinion that we should take this Parliament's control instrument very, very seriously. What does it take from my point of view for this to become a good committee of inquiry which seriously fulfils this control task? – First of all, we need a clear subject of investigation. The Rules of Procedure shall provide that the subject-matter of the investigation shall deal with a time and content-limited process in the execution of the Federal Government. Now I'm advocating a lot of effort to those who have defined this subject, but – quite honestly – I'm really a little hard to recognize this demarcated process at the moment. Temporary: To this end, the proposal states: “18. ==References== October 2021’, and then it says: but also all the preparatory actions in this regard. So with this addition, from my point of view, the time frame is already not clearly defined. Content: Well, at the previous U Committee, we talked about herb and beetroot. I do not want to give this judgment yet, but we are now discussing, for example, point 1 “influence of awarding and funding procedures”, in general, across all ministries. – That does not limit the subject-matter of the investigation. This would be much better in a higher precision from my point of view. We will then again discuss the “influence on the interests of the federal government”. – We also had that in the Ibiza Investigation Committee. I also think it is very good that we discuss once again the “influence of investigations and investigation work”. As the judge of proceedings has already said in the last committee, there has, of course, been no political influence. However, I would like to look once again at the WKStA's relationship with the supervision of trades and services. That's where we see these potential for conflict. So maybe we have the opportunity to talk about this subject – to reach agreement would be important – but with a process clearly defined in time and content, I am really very, very difficult. That is, and I would like to explain it to the spectators, quite relevant to the issue of file delivery. Now we have to bring this procedure to the stage: Committee on the Rules of Procedure, establishment in the National Council, and then there will be a request for proof. This request for proof will then be sent to the individual ministries with the subject-matter of the investigation. Quite honest: If you get a request for proof with this subject of investigation in a ministry, then you're going to be a little unscrupulous. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Then the concept of abstract relevance is added. The Constitutional Court has said that it is all to deliver what is abstractly relevant. That means best you deliver everything and everyone. Perhaps we can also find a file delivery procedure – Mr. Krainer, I look at you there –, please, at any time. I have little desire to discuss issues of file delivery for weeks. Since finding a clear procedure seems important to me. I would like to say a few more aspects: We need to make more sure that we do not violate personal rights. This has happened indisputably with the last committee of inquiry. We don't care. Mrs Krisper! There is also an information regulation law. I call on all Members of the Committee to take this information regulation law seriously in order to protect personal rights. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller]] One important aspect I would also like to address is the question of Leaks. It is simply that – and I would ask you not to take this easy – that permanent investigations, files sent to the Investigation Committee before they are in the Investigation Committee before the accused knows anything about it, are already published in the media. This is not a serious educational work if there is public debate in the run-up to it. We know that then always happens pre-conceptions and others. I'd like to have another access. Finally, I come to the division of power.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e17840	Finally, there is a final sentence. Member of the European Parliament Please, let's finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e17856	Let's take the division of power seriously! It is not Parliament's task to investigate criminal conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e17883	Thanks a lot. Mrs Nurten Yılmaz is now speaking. - Please. You have 5 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e17918	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hanger! The subject-matter of the investigation was already very clear at the Ibiza Examining Committee. For you, he wasn't, I still notice today, but the Constitutional Court found him to be clear. If we all stick to the Constitutional Court, I'd say. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hanger: You are misinformed!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You turned off the Ibiza Investigation Committee and guided us: You can use a new one! Now we're doing that. Now I look lovingly at the greens. I hope you save us the loop to the Constitutional Court that this will not be delayed and we can start quickly. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and NEOS, as well as members of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has remained so open by the Ibiza Investigation Committee, and not only that, but that which has come to light, one cannot simply leave it that way and not want to investigate it further. I am pleased that we can save the Constitutional Court and start very soon. However, I also demand that we start the reform of the Rules of Procedure as soon as possible – in parallel to that, so that this can also be done transparently. Come with the cameras! The public is interested in being there live. It's really fast. I've heard it from everyone so much, they're all for hearing it changed, and you haven't got anything against the public either. [[Abg. Hanger: But there were other points there too, Mrs Colleague!]] – You can take the points all with you! That would be very important to me now. You can bring in what's important to you. Bring it in, just do it! Don't say we have points – make it right! - Yeah, but now I'm on it! [[Abg. Hanger: I have already formulated them ten times!]] ‘Memoratively formulated’? Where? Bring it in! [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] Who did you formulate it for? – Need me You can't say it here right now. You know where you need to formulate it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] – Ah, Mr. Hanger is there too, no, that’s Mr. Hammer! [[towards Abg. Michael Hammer:]] [[Cheerfulness with the SPÖ as well as cheerfulness of the Abg. Hanger.]] In any case, ladies and gentlemen, it is in the interest of the Republic to dry the swamps that have come up. We're ready, the opposition is ready. But who knows what Mrs Maurer and Mr Wöginger are now doing. Yes, you don't have to look like that, you've already had your experiences. [[towards Abg. Stögmüller]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'd be careful. You have worked very well with us in the education of the Ibiza Committee, and I am looking forward to the first meetings. What's going to come out of this is going to take us a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e18024	Mr Christian Hafenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e18045	Actually, I didn't have a concept, no paper lying at the table, but when Mr Hanger started his speech, I started to write, because I just have to deal with a few things. Mr. Hanger, I want to forward, I don't think it's fair to call you a satire project. That's absolutely beyond the goal, you don't. You mentioned earlier how holprigly the request to set up the committee of inquiry was due to expire. I would like to discuss this with you, and you have provided enough opportunity for it yourself. Remember your interesting press conference! Mr Schwarz is looking away, she has also held an interesting hollow press conference. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] Then you come and talk here about Leaks, who are crazy, and where they come from. You just have to admit here that your comic press conferences, which no one can understand to this day, were only done to cover up Leaks you had in your authorities. And you wanted to push the media into your shoes. That was the reason for your two appearances. Give it up! [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] Mr Hanger, I do not wonder if you are used against such hard terms. Then you actually come with the concept of separation of violence! After that we may see tomorrow. I don't know if Sebastian can be trusted in the plenary session at all. I do not believe it anymore. Meanwhile, the gross will have fallen, and he will see that this is a senseless undertaking. But someone who now has to abdicate in chimp and shame as Chancellor of the Federal Republic and put himself in parliament tomorrow – after that is an opinion of separation of power! First, in the executive, now he wants to control the executive in the legislative, but from the legislative one, because nothing else makes Mr Schallenberg then in his mission, should be implemented as well as what you are now doing. Please, don't try to separate the force! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Return to the Examining Committee: I believe that the accusations that are now taking place, which are now being reported in the media, are exactly the accusations that have already been made in the last committee of inquiry. We have already noticed that you have brought a deep state to justice. We've seen you've got an intermediate shot in the Republic. We've seen that you can't deal with the shift levers of power and you've abused the whole state for your interests. This was, in short, the result of the last committee of inquiry. And that is precisely why, Mr Hanger, it is only the logical consequence to go here now and continue precisely these investigations. I can't hear it anymore that you're still saying: The accusations are wrong! What else do you need as the text messages that are in circulation? What do you need as your own answers that the former Chancellor sent short from his cell phone? What else do you need for you to just go here, apologize to the people and say, okay, now we're going to make a line under it, we're gonna quit with this tarn and slug!, which is always in your homes somehow? [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Why don't you say we apologise to the people, do the damage as far as possible and solve it together with a parliamentary investigation committee? [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] If the accusations are all wrong, I ask myself why, at once, in the ministries with you – and we have the information about it – the Schredders are already running high-tours again, why information has gone to employees, but may you delete the e-mail mailboxes. Why do you destroy files if you have nothing to hide? Mr Hanger, please put yourself out again next time and explain to us why these processes are taking place just now, why in ministries really destroys, scraps and, in principle, darkens acts in classical ÖVP manners! I'd like to know that, and that's the job. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I say to you: It's probably no one to bring in such a committee of inquiry. You can believe this because I know very well from my own experience that things are coming to light that are unpleasant. I'm telling you about the ÖVP but also: It is our damn duty as a parliamentarian when we find that something is going wrong in the Republic to bring in such an investigation committee. This investigation committee would also offer the ÖVP the opportunity to correct the injustice committed. The ÖVP now needs to produce and say: Wait, we'll stop playing our tactical games now! We will not bombard you with any strange acts of secrecy, so that we need to strengthen the statics in Parliament. We will not take advantage of any deadlines, we will not run to the Constitutional Court and see that the investigations can be started as late as possible so that you can have time on the other side to destroy files. That's why I'm asking the Greens. I hope that the Greens, too, will no longer be involved in this game, that you will go to the VfGH once more in the sense of the ÖVP in order to stop our investigations. When we do this and when the ÖVP is awakened from its shock star, and once it is clear that injustice has simply been done, not to Sebastian Kurz, but to the Austrian population, and if you finally know what Parliamentaryism means and what we owe to this state, then, Mr Hanger, we are on the right path. That's what we should start with now! I ask you to do this.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e18151	Next: Mrs Nina Tomaselli. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e18172	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Mrs Yılmaz, I can calm you down: We Greens welcome this Committee of Inquiry to the House! [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] [[Abg. Y ılmaz makes a fist and stretchs the thumb upwards.]] What do I want to say? – Of course, the hardness of the accusations makes it necessary to have a comprehensive explanation of opinion, of media manipulation, which is in the room, which we see really well documented in the files. This is not to be rejected at all, and I also believe that the Austrians are now also expecting a comprehensive parliamentary investigation that is simply following the actions concerning alleged advertising and survey manipulation and suspected tax abuse. Of course, the processes that we have rightly discussed up and down in the last few days – I said that yesterday – have two sides. One is criminal law and the other is the political side. Of course, the presumption of innocence applies, but the presumption of innocence applies to the criminal side. Non-indebtedness is and does not remain a political category, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervoke by Mr Hanger and Mr Hörl.]] The importance of criminal law must be clarified by the investigation authorities and the independent judicial system. There is also a political dimension and, of course, it is only right and important that the top control body of this House, our house, accepts and sees what political consequences must be drawn from it. Who, if not us, Parliament, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! Who, if not we as politicians – and I try to take them all along – are called upon to do everything possible to restore confidence in these truly shocking events for the whole Republic? If you think of the population of Austria, do not forget: Since Ibiza, only two years have passed, and there is again the next domestic political event that has really led the Republic to waver. That is why it is up to all of us to do everything in our power to show, in all political differences, that the Austrians can rely on their politicians, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] I think we can best show this by doing serious information and control work – this is a trust-building measure. Every parliamentarian and parliamentarian, whatever the political group and regardless of the need, is invited to contribute to this confidence recovery action in this committee of inquiry. Finally, it is at the heart of our work as parliamentarians; it is part of the political cleansing process, which is really very important at the moment. Control is necessary, because the Enlightenment must not take a step forward, ladies and gentlemen, and we Greens will, of course, support the investigation work again in this Committee of Inquiry with the best knowledge and conscience and the greatest clarity. [[Congratulation with greens, SPÖ and NEOS]] We will be no less uncomfortable than we are already in the Ibiza Investigation Committee and we will contribute when it comes to illuminating the window corners in this Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e18253	Mrs Stephanie Krisper's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e18275	Dear Green, I am pleased that you are warmly welcome to the Examining Committee. I would also like to ask regretfully whether it would not have been good in the light of the information provided if we had been running the committee of inquiry. Wouldn't the Ibiza U Committee have been able to do an important job from today or even for weeks? Is not going away enough right now, where we say it really makes a difference whether we had extended or, as Sigi Maurer said: Then stop setting up one again? . We cannot now start our work with meetings and interviews by the beginning of next year. It's months gone by. We agree with the offer of colleagues Krainer to want to finalize our education – half a year when we experience the corresponding cooperation from all parties. That would be new from the ÖVP, we remain optimistic. Why does this committee focus on corruption and the Turkish ÖVP? – This is probably the most rhetorical question of the nation, but I still carry out: Unfortunately, there are enough topics for investigation committees in this country; however, NEOS always applies to us that the most important and priority is the investigation of abuses that still exist and the causes of which are still attached to the controls, because there is a danger of continuing to be politically deeply responsible and to continue. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ]] We don't want to experience any more – and I think no one in Austria wants to experience it again – that child care is prevented from pure personal greed, that the cold progression of pure egoism is not abolished, that someone buys media and buys elections, then tries to prevent justice from clarifying this, and tries to cover it up. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and Greens]] We remember the multiple suspicions, including that house searches and other forced measures have been betrayed through the Turkish Ministry of the Interior. Who has done all of this and tried to cover it up in this never before manner, and is still there? Who do we need to focus on? - To the turquoise system. This should be clearly worked out, whose corrupting of our democracy is clearly shown – away from criminal law, Mr. Hanger. That is why you are basically concerned, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: politics that imposes higher requirements than criminal standards, namely decent policies. It is invaluable to work in this U-committee for a policy of clean hands, for the well-being of the Austrians; and this is the responsibility we want to take in Parliament and we want to follow from the point of view of NEOS. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and Greens.]] [[19:54]] [[19:54:47]] Assignment
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e18332	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. According to § 33 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, I agree with the request of 4/US to set up an investigative committee on “complaining corruption accusations against members of the ÖVP (ÖVP-corruption committee)”. [[19:55:15]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2021-10-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00125_d8e18365	I announce that, at today's meeting, the self-employed have received requests from 1948/A(E) to 1980/A(E). The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 7.55 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
