ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e5757	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you very much for our 79th anniversary. I would like to welcome the meeting which I can declare open. I very much welcome the ladies and gentlemen of the journalistic group at the gallery and the ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens. [[On the glass walls of some Members there are panels with the Parliament logo and the inscription "We Remember", which were attached before the beginning of the meeting on the occasion of the International Day of Commemoration of the Victims of the Holocaust on 27 October. In the places of all the Members of this House, there was a common photo.]] The Official Protocol of the 76th. Meeting of 13. January and the unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of 77. Parliament resolution on the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. Meeting of 14. January 2021 have been raised in the Parliamentary Directorate and have not been challenged. For today's sitting as prevented, MEPs are reported Mag. Andreas Hanger, Nurten Yılmaz, Christian Hafenecker, Maund Mag. Christian Ragger. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e5808	The Federal Chancellery has informed that the Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Alma Zadić, LL.M. Werner Kogler is represented. The ORF shall transfer the meeting to ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and then to ORF III until 7 p.m. Afterwards, the meeting will be transmitted in the TV library. [[09:06:36]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e5846	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Work market in times of COVID-19: Status – outlook – opportunities’ I should like to extend my warmest welcome to the Federal Minister for Labour. Mr Klubobmann Gustav Wöginger has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e5875	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Coping with the corona pandemic remains a top priority. The measures that have been needed over and over again for months in order not to overburden the hospitals, on the one hand, and on the other hand to protect and save human lives, also entail a major economic and labour market crisis. Virus mutations from England and South Africa make it difficult to extend this crisis situation again. The opinion of experts on this is clear: The mutated virus is even more contagious and aggressive. Therefore, on the last weekend, a broad consensus was also found between the Federal Government, the federal states and the national leaders and the social partners – the extension of the lockdown to the 7th century. In the present situation, February is necessary and alternatively non-existent. We are not alone, ladies and gentlemen, many countries, especially our neighbouring countries in Europe, must make similar decisions. [[Abg. Kickl: In South Tyrol is not too!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] In Germany, for example, we read and hear today, the lockdown will be until the 15. ==References== Of course, the economic and labour market situation remains very tense. There are many challenges to be overcome. A brief summary of the data and facts relating to the labour market may be: There are currently 533,000 persons reported to the AMS, 65 000 of whom are in training. This corresponds, as it were, to a crisis-related balance of 112 000 people who are unemployed compared to the previous year. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasize the model of short-time work and also stress it, because it is unique in Europe, which was implemented by the Ministry as a result of the social partners' agreement: 440 000 people are still in short-time work, 5.7 billion euros have been paid for short-term work and the phase three is approved with 4.3 billion euros. – This is a success model, ladies and gentlemen, which secures jobs and income for workers! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Perhaps the alleged economic party NEOS can explain one thing to me: Yesterday, a bonus malus system was called for in a broadcast. That's what it says, among other things: “For example, companies that use a high degree of support through short-time work could pay a surcharge on corporate tax or income tax for later profits.” – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, what does that mean? – If you’re an entrepreneur, you’ll see that you’re getting rid of these employees now, because otherwise it could be that you’ll have to pay a higher corporate tax rate in the future. This is a super-GAU economic policy! This is a belly spot, ladies and gentlemen of the NEOS that you land here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] What else have we done throughout the months of crisis to support the labour market, especially, of course, the entrepreneurs and, of course, the workers? – We preferred tax relief and reduced the tax rate from 25 to 20 percent. For each child, there were 360 Euro children's bonus to support and strengthen families in particular. We have created several family hard-working funds to support them in particular. We've introduced the apprenticeship bonus. We have introduced a special care period because it is necessary to give parents, in particular, the opportunity to care for the children during the lockdown phase. We have implemented a single payment for the unemployed twice. We have greatly increased the number of employees at the AMS. At this point it is my concern, ladies and gentlemen, to thank the staff of the AMS, but also the ministries responsible for it, for what is being accomplished in times like this is a top performance. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We have already extended the increase in emergency aid, and I can also announce here today that we will implement another extension. Today we will make a joint request from the government groups to ensure that unemployment benefit is also guaranteed for the beneficiaries of emergency aid, because it is our social responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, that we also support those people who have become unemployed through this crisis, so that they will not slip into the level of emergency aid. We have this responsibility from the government groups and we are making this request today. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In parallel with labour market support, we have also strongly supported the economy. A large number of economic aid has been implemented: Turnover, fixed-cost grant, investment premiums, now the default bonus. . We have been doing all we can for months to get under the arms of the companies that, in some sectors, are, of course, naturally suffering from the crisis, as well as financially as possible. We are at the forefront of Europe in terms of the overall scope of this aid. This is important and necessary, because we want that when we get out of the crisis – and this will only be possible by vaccination – the entrepreneurs can re-start from the first day. This is why these economic aid is of the utmost importance. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] But what do we expect in the next few weeks and months? – It will be a very hard time in the winter and spring months until we can deal with this pandemic and, of course, this economic and labour market crisis together. We will extend the short work once again – this is in preparation – because it is necessary to keep people in this very good system. I've already said it: It not only secures the job, but above all also the income. The Federal Minister Kocher is currently finalising the legal framework for home office, based on an agreement between the social partners. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] This is about labour law, working time, accident insurance protection and also about tax deductible, i.e. concerning work equipment. We have set up a work foundation of 700 million euros for the next year and 400 million euros for this year. What are you talking about, ladies and gentlemen? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] It's about re-training and qualification. These are the key words in this year's labour market. We need to invest there, and we do so with these foundations. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We have implemented the educational bonus so that, of course, the willingness to re-qualify, to re-train, to switch to a job or to another division is also actively supported. It is now about how we can get out of this crisis together, and I would like to conclude by saying very positively that this end of the shoulder was again largely successful last weekend, that is, across the borders of the parties – all the Heads of State, the social partners, the Federal Government, and also on the advice of the experts – so that we can deal with this crisis together. From my point of view, there is only one way, and that means vaccination, vaccination, vaccination and parallel testing, testing and testing. Only in this way can we cope with this crisis as soon as possible. [[Abg. Kickl: Your mayors have taken this literally!]] – Yes, the FPÖ is not there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] This is evidence of a very low state-political responsibility. The Party's tactics are placed ahead of people's responsibilities. – We reject that, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I would also like to thank all those, especially the federal states, but also the Federal Government as a whole, who have helped to draw up a plan, as we can quickly pass through. The Federal Chancellor shows an tireless commitment at European level so that the Astra-Zeneca vaccine is approved. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It must be possible that what is vaccinated in Israel or in England can also be applied to us, because we would also receive two million doses of vaccination. We could then, above all, the older generation, because this is in the focus of vaccination, faster vaccination, then we can open faster, then we get out of the crisis faster together. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, I say to all those who are involved and who also comply with the measures. We know that it is very difficult, of course, that it takes many months, but we have to endure again in these next weeks. [[Call the FPÖ: Again!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] And if we stick together again, we can do it – vaccination, vaccination, vaccination and parallel testing, testing, testing! A warm thanks goes to all those who help, including the volunteer in the test streets, the mayors, our local people, including the rescue ants who carry it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] Only in this way can we come out of this crisis together. Minister of Labour, I wish you all the best! An absolute specialist at the head of the workplace will support the fact that we can go a good way, especially in the interests of workers and entrepreneurs, so that we can cope with this crisis together quickly. [[New call for tender Belakovich]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6042	The Minister for Labour has been reported to speak. – I can inform you that the speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. But that's just a good time. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6063	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! For just over a week now, I have been allowed to hold the office of Minister of Labour, and I am aware of this responsibility. Especially at this time, I believe, we must all feel this responsibility in the deepest economic crisis since the Second World War. We currently have 530 000 unemployed, well 60 000 of them in training courses. This is a historically high value – not the highest value that was achieved in April 2020 – a historically high value with many individual sicks, which should all give us the task of finding the best measures. 440 000 people are currently in short work. The short work works. I would like to say more about this. As far as the labour market is concerned, of course, it is clear that opening economic areas would have relaxed the labour market. Unfortunately, it is so that all the experts and Experts from medicine have said that this is too risky because of the mutation we are now experiencing due to the change in the virus, version B.1.1.7. In other words, we must manage to bring down the infectious event in order to be able to take the first opening steps that will also support the labour market. To do this, we all need to limit the use of discipline, mask wearing, distance keeping, contact. I know that this is difficult for everyone, even for me personally, but at the moment there is no better way to get through this crisis and to get through – that is crucial – as quickly as possible, if the number of infections is small enough to reopen the economy and create jobs and thus achieve a reduction in unemployment. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In the next few weeks, we need to focus on the acute fight against the crisis. We do this in particular with the short work – Mr. Klubobmann has already mentioned it –: 4.3 billion euros were approved in phase three of short-term work compensation. It is the most important crisis instrument for maintaining employment in Austria. We were able to save over a million jobs in the long term. 94 percent of those in short-time employment in April also had employment in the same job half a year later. In other words, short work is not a hidden unemployment. It is a bridge of underload in an economically difficult time and a proven crisis instrument that works particularly well in Austria. That is why I also advise against linking incentives to short-time work that might lead companies to avoid using short-time work in such a way. There must be an incentive to take up short work. If you know that you pay higher taxes later, if you do, then the incentive arises to not take advantage of this short work, and that would be fatal in stages of a lockdown from my point of view. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] It is also important for me to stress that there is still the possibility for all companies if they are subject to a regulatory closure to reduce short work to 0 percent working time. That is to say, it is the most generous model, but, as we see, it works in the labour market in the crisis. As short-term work continues, there are discussions with the social partners. I hope that we can very quickly present a solution to how short work will continue after the end of the current phase at the end of March. Short work is so good because it does not cause unemployment, because we know that unemployment is always difficult to reduce. It is similar to the number of infections: If you're on a high level, you need a very long time to get back down. We must make it possible to get through the crisis with the lowest number of unemployed. However, short-term unemployment has been partially prevented. For example, there are 60 000 unemployed people less than in a worst-case scenario estimated by the AMS in November. So short work works as a crisis instrument. After this crisis, which I would like to stress, it is important to create employment as quickly as possible and to accompany structural change in the labour market. We are already well placed to do this. At the moment, however, we are still dealing with the acute fight. I am therefore glad that Parliament's consent is provided with emergency aid for another three months in the amount of unemployment benefit. In this way we prevent the unemployed, who are already very difficult, from slipping into emergency aid and a lower level of compensation. We therefore put the support for around 200 000 people per month in Austria. At the same time, we ensure that self-employed persons who are subject to compulsory insurance continue to receive unemployment benefits, even if their operations have been closed due to the current crisis situation. Then there are a number of measures that will continue to accompany us over the next few months. First, the job offensive: EUR 428 million to qualify people in areas that are important for the future. This is one of the most important measures, because skills for the unemployed offer the best opportunities to find work again in the future. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The AMS – I would like to expressly thank the employees for its flexibility and high level of use – is currently guided by the training courses. This is difficult in a phase in which training in presence is not possible. There are only a few exceptions where presence is necessary, for example in training on machines, but most of them are these courses, these further training courses, these qualification measures virtual, online. The cost of organizing these measures is huge. We see that it works well and that we have a means to create employment. The second is Home Office. Especially in lockdown times, this is of course very much used. It is also important at the moment, I believe, to limit contacts, therefore, to use the appeal to all employers, employees, home offices once again, if it is possible – but we also need a regulation for the post-crisis period – and therefore a home office scheme for me has priority. We have set ourselves the goal of introducing a scheme with the social partners very quickly, and we hope that this will happen in the next few weeks. Then, of course, we continue to support measures that promote employment even after the crisis. There is the start-up bonus as a crisis instrument that supports the industries particularly affected by the pandemic when they create new employment conditions when there are first easy opening steps. Of course, we also have measures for specific target groups. We know that, for example, long-term unemployed women and older people, but also in part young people, are more affected by this crisis than other workers. There is a youth employment task force. We have our own offers for these specific groups, which I have mentioned, and we will also develop these offers if it is possible to reopen businesses which are now closed and to create more jobs. All these measures bring us closer to the goal of coping well with the crisis and then, for me, to achieve a speedy return to employment and to substantially reduce unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6164	The additional speeches are limited to 5 minutes of speaking time. Member's head has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6188	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In principle, labour market policy is first and foremost economic and location policy: Only economic power is known to create growth, and only growth creates and secures sustainable employment. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am very, very glad that Mr Bundeskanzler has succeeded in winning an appointed economic expert as Minister of Labour with you, dear Martin Kocher. Together with the economic manager in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Margarete Schramböck, you will ensure an employment-effective location policy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] In times like this, location policy is first of all crisis management and rescue work. Many farms are in economic difficulties due to the necessary protection measures; they are weakened. Some have even been deprived of the economic base. Therefore, it is initially necessary to ensure liquidity at the premises. We do this by supporting taxes, social security contributions, by means of payment rates, by state-guaranteed loans, by subsidies such as the hard-fall fund, the fixed-cost subsidy, by revenue replacements, the default bonus – now loss compensation –; to name only the many instruments. With the investment premium we also create investment incentives. I am quite confident that in the next few days or weeks, the Minister of Finance will be able to increase the limits set by the European Commission for these aids, which, of course, would mean massive relief for many businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, it is of course also a matter of saving jobs and securing jobs. To this end, the Minister has already mentioned it, especially the corona short work that has secured and saved up to a million jobs. I am almost unscathed about the NEOS proposal to impose a penalty tax on companies which, instead of canceling employees, have kept them in short work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] I am unscrupulous, esteemed ladies and gentlemen of the NEOS! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Loacker: Take advantage of the short work system! Painful!]] Companies that have kept employees instead of canceling them should be charged with a penalty tax required by NEOS – I am unscrupulous when I hear it. [[Abg. Loacker: Yes, I believe you...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, labour market policy is also social policy. A rich country like Austria can and must afford a dense network of shelters for people without work. Unemployment benefit, emergency aid and minimum security are the instruments we have. In these difficult times, we have improved unemployment benefit through one-off payments and temporarily prevented a slide into emergency aid by increasing emergency aid to the level of unemployment benefit – socially necessary, important measures of this coalition. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, labour market policy must always be active employment policy in order to offer job opportunities in difficult times. We have a phenomenon – also in this crisis –: On the one hand, we have high unemployment and on the other hand we still have the problem of a shortage of skilled workers. In other words, we need to improve the regional distribution and skills of people who do not have them to the extent necessary. The Corona Labor Foundation will help to bring all these instruments back into employment to the AMS, the job offensive – the Minister has already mentioned it – and the new startup bonus, integration aid – to support the AMS in bringing people who do not now have a job. One last thing – back to labour market policy as an economic and location policy – is: The crisis will have an end, ladies and gentlemen, and from this crisis it is important to strengthen Austria's economic location through a broad-based location strategy. Strengthening the equity base of businesses, further investment incentives for investment driven growth, an internationalisation campaign to increase exportability, support research, development and innovation, to name just a few points: This will be the task for all of us – out of the crisis. With you, Mr Federal Minister, and together with your colleagues in the Federal Government, this House will create the conditions for Austria to be strengthened from this crisis. [[towards Federal Minister Kocher]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6273	Mr Klubobfrau Dr. Rendi-Wagner has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6294	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In this crisis, it is often hoped that the experts will not be right. Unfortunately, the opposite is often the case: The labour market experts were right when they predicted a winter of record unemployment for Austria. One thing you have to say: Through each other lockdown, through every other lockdown week, this dramatic situation is getting worse on the labour market. If the light at the end of the tunnel is now the case in the summer of 2021, then hopefully this is the case with the health crisis. For hundreds of thousands of unemployed, however, the light at the end of their tunnel will not be seen in the summer of 2021. This is precisely what needs to be considered in all the measures and decisions to be taken by the Federal Government. There are three possibilities: First, the government simply takes it that way, puts it out – according to the principle of hope and it will be again –; second, the government acts as if it were helping, but relies on staging, relies on empty promises; or third, the government takes responsibility, shrieks the sleeves and does what a federal government has to do: act, do, do, actively combat unemployment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So far, one has to say, it was a mixture of variants one and two, a mixture of principle hope and staging. Mr Federal Minister, you have in hand – you are new to this function – to change this course over the past few months and finally to take active action against this dramatic record unemployment. Always keep in mind one thing: It's not just about numbers, it's not just about statistics, it's not about curves – it's interesting in science, but it's about people in politics. It is about fates, families affected, people who are two or three years ahead of retirement, apprentices who have just started their careers and no longer find a place to continue their training. If you honestly mean, Mr. Federal Minister – and I am going to be an optimist – to help those people who just want to work, namely, a perspective, a life assurance for the future for themselves and their families, if you think it is serious to help these people, then you have an honest partner in the SPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is a need for effective support so that this happens, at last a functioning support for the companies of the country and for the unemployed in Austria. Since Sunday there is now a new instrument with a new marketing name. I'll tell you one thing: It doesn't need a new marketing name, it just needs a working tool for the economy, an economic aid that is unbureaucratic, which works easily and quickly, which is effective. It needs finally. the increase in unemployment benefit for half a million people in our country, so that from this pre-opportunity it does not become a pandemic of poverty, a social crisis. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] This is not only a matter of human beings, it is not only a matter of human beings, it is also economically reasonable – you should know that – when it comes to the promotion of purchasing power and consumption. It needs effective future-oriented qualification and re-training programmes, for example in the field of care. We have over half a million unemployed, and at the same time we know that in the next few years we will need more than 80 000 nurses. Why not make a problem plus another problem two solutions, Mr Federal Minister, and explain the care as a future sector for local employment? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In a 2018 interview on the value of care, Mr. Federal Minister, you said that no specific skills are obviously required in this area. I would like to know if this is still your attitude – I cannot understand it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister, I offer you an offer: We work together with the social partners to develop an effective model for qualification and re-training in the field of care so that we can gain, re-train and qualify unemployed people in a large-scale way for the care sector! You can choose the marketing name with the Federal Government. We don't care so much about marketing and staging, we're about content, we're about solutions, we're about perspectives for people, we're about confidence and opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6380	Mr Kassager has been mentioned on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6401	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! We've already heard: 1.1 million people are unemployed or in short-time work, so more than a million people cannot normally do a job – that is the result, that is the bill of economic policy. As Mr Kopf has already said, economic policy and the activities ahead are, of course, a fundamental condition for labour market policy. In other words: As Minister of Labour, you now have to present the invoice – almost as a Kassandra – and there are new horror figures every week regarding the labour market, and you are always limping behind. This is related to the causal chain – but with the causality, especially the ÖVP obviously has problems – which is the following: School – Education – Science, Research – Economy – Jobs – Labour market – Prosperity for all people. Now, at the first point, you'll start squatting around and lock the schools. This is not your responsibility, but the second expert in the government – that is undisputed, I very much appreciate Mr Heinz Fassmann. You are also undisputed an expert, but I am very concerned that you are the second expert who cannot stand up against the Federal Chancellor. I do not want you to be like Mr Fassmann, who has now gone through the metamorphosis from the Minister of Education to the Minister of Suffering – we will see it and we will observe it closely. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They promise prosperity for all, block schools, block education. They promise prosperity for all and block the economy. That's what you're saying. Logic, that can't work. Now, in retrospect, you will present to us some measures that cost an infinite amount of money, and I also wonder who will pay it – that will probably be our children and children. This is an access that we completely reject. We are in serious concern that economic development, if we continue in this way, will harm. In our opinion, every day we have continued to lock up and act in the back with some short work aids and other things, every day that we still “stand” – under quotation marks – is already a day too much. This already costs – that is proven – about 1 billion euros per week. There is no evidence-based reason to make a third lockdown now. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We do not believe that this is alternatives. By the way: The sentence, it is an alternative, is a witness of poverty for a leader. Every good manager checks alternatives. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] Of course, there are alternatives in this case too. The liberals, i.e. health spokesperson Kaniak, have already presented a five-point plan several times. Of course, there are these alternatives that do not destroy the economy. In other words, once – and you have not done so – we must protect the vulnerable groups, but the rest of the world, especially the schools and the economy, will lead back to a normal life. This government has already lost access to people. I don't know what you're doing in the Chancellor's Office – plan games and then something in order – that's completely beyond people's minds, the economy is completely over. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We need optimism, not naïveness. We need a healthy, normal access to the matter, we need a healthy, normal handling of the virus, and we have to face this virus, and that is reasonable, that is, not lightly, but with appropriate measures, with punctual, target-oriented measures, but not almost according to the foundry principle, to lock the country and say: Yes, people will do it, the families will do it! We're going to lock up the schools, the mothers, who may be still working, will be involved! – They're putting all of this on the people. This is not State-politically responsible, Mr Wöginger, but the very opposite. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Return their lives to the Austrians, their work, their future for our children! What's going on here is the insanity. Give people the freedom back! Let's assume – we do – that people are very well able to act on their own responsibility to act independently! They don't need 35-year-olds in the Chancellor's Office who think for them and who tell them what to do. This is a completely negative access to people. We don't have liberals. People are able to think independently and take their destiny into their own hands. It is a task of responsible policy not to cut, restrict and arrest people in this desire.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6489	Mrs. Sigrid Maurer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6511	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters! Yes, we have one. A dramatic situation in the labour market. There are currently 533,000 unemployed people, and of course every person who is not in employment and could actually be too much. This is a massive rise. But there is also a big gender difference: In comparison to previous years, male unemployment has increased by 25 percent, but in women it has increased by 40 percent. This is, of course, a massive problem. However, last year we have already opposed the short work, which is a success model, which is also a very generous and important model in international comparison, which secures jobs. On the other hand, on the other hand, we have also made sure that the social situation is halted. The Ministry of Social Affairs has commissioned a study on the social situation in Austria under the Covid-19 Pandemic, which confirms that the social consequences of the crisis are very well eliminated or could at least be dampened by these measures. We have managed that, whatever we are going to bring in today, we have raised emergency aid to the level of unemployment benefit, that we have paid the child bonus, 360 euros per child, as well as the one-time payments for the unemployed and the reduction of the first stage of income tax. These are measures that have been very well offset by the social impact of this massive health crisis and provide a good basis for further work. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We have also provided EUR 700 million for work foundations, for a job offensive that will finance qualification, reorientation and re-training. We have introduced the 4 Euro per day educational bonus, which allows us to provide additional incentives for further training. Of course, we will also need further measures in the future to bring people back to employment, to bring them into new jobs, to reorientate them. I would like to mention a few more points which we have already implemented. We have expanded the integration aid, including the restart bonus, which is very successful. We have taken important steps for young people to develop over-company training or youth coaching. We have created additional 1 000 jobs in the school administration for older workers or, for example, the solidarity premium model, which creates a fifth job with a reduction in the working time of four. These are all points with which we have already fought very intensively the labour market crisis. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] What's going on? Where do we have to go? – There is a very large area that will be very busy with us over the next few years: the care. Health Österreich GmbH has commissioned a study on behalf of the Ministry of Health, which resulted in 76 000 additional nursing staff. In addition, additional persons are needed for the care of people with disabilities. This is a potential of 100,000 new jobs that we need to create that we can create with which we can bring many people back into employment – with the work foundations, which are possible with the 700 million euros, with the job offensive. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Of course, the major care reform will also play a major role in terms of training, which is potentially new models in order to create the start-up and transition to the care sector. Another important point is, of course, green jobs. With the climate billions, we have the opportunity to create 100 000 jobs in the future industries, for the exchange of boilers, for solar plants, for photovoltaic systems, also for transport, for renovation offensives et cetera. That's very big. Potentials. This will also create a turning point in the fight against climate change. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to address a point that will be very central from our point of view – I have already mentioned it at the outset –: Women are much more affected by the rise in unemployment. There is a group that is particularly vulnerable to poverty, these are single women. 50 percent of this group is at risk of poverty; this is a life at the limit in Corona times. We will also see that we are taking measures to ensure that we can bring this group back well into the labour market and provide better social protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6595	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6616	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! If you are with the ÖVP, you will be vaccinated quickly. This applies not only to the mayor of Feldkirch and the mayor of Rankweil, but also to the new Minister of the ÖVP, who went to the press conference yesterday – now chatting with colleagues Taschner – and said that the lockdown is an investment in the future. [[Abg. Tashner is at the government bank and talks with Federal Minister Kocher]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] “The lockdown is an investment in the future,” Clemens Fuest of the IFO has already said, but he referred to the German Christmas Lockdown. He said if we close, then we'll go over Christmas until 11. Yes, but not: [[Abg. Lightenness: Can you...? Is that all right?]] If we block for months! as we have in Austria, we are almost in the permanent lockdown. The lockdown is an investment in the future, you said, Minister. Explain to the owner of a shoe shop that the lockdown is an investment in the future! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This one can imagine its winter shoes at half the price next year, because they are from the previous year. That's how your investment looks. Entrepreneurs see this differently. The statement would have been correct: The lockdown is a consequence of the government failure! If the government had not failed to protect the old-age and care homes, we would have reduced 3,000 deaths, would not so many people in the hospital and would have looked much better. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The citizens ask themselves: Will vaccination help us get out of this wave pool of soft and hard lockdowns? – I say, not for a long time. [[Abg. Steinacker:... Black painting!]] Just as the Federal Government is dileting around during vaccination – as offers for more vaccine from Pfizer are simply erased from the table, with the argument: we would rather wait longer for the cheap Astra Zeneca, instead of now buying the expensive! – the danger is that we will still run into further lockdowns. [[Call the ÖVP:... Vaccine strategy!]] Then you will tell us again that Lockdowns are an investment in the future. The short work would actually be thought of for a short period of time, you have confirmed it yourself several times. It is therefore essential now to make adjustments, as the longer the short-term work aid is granted, the greater the proportion of jobs that are already structurally broken. So we throw tax money into businesses that are preserved alive and that make the healthy still competitive. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We must therefore look at the fact that short-time work is used for bridging, but it is not a permanent instrument. Abuse of short work is difficult to control. Those who go through the area a little with open eyes and listen to the citizens learn how many businesses are officially in – under quotations – “short work” in which the employees work but full cans, with only the money being selected by the taxpayer. This is difficult to control, so we have to take other measures and we have therefore also made the proposal: If the employees of a company are longer in short-time work, the company will then pay a surcharge on corporate tax during the profit phase to return to the taxpayer some of the help it has received. I can already imagine that my colleague's head does not understand this. He must protect his colleagues who use the system. Of course, he has to stand down now and say: It's all great what we're doing, because who put the businesses in the bad situation? This government! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You, Minister, now have a big job: You have to strengthen yourself towards the social partners now, because everything takes too long. The Home Office Act also takes too long. I offer you: To get the price of a dissertation in Bratislava, I will write the law to you by next week. [[Cheerfulness with the NEOS.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The press conference yesterday was still the way your ministry's team was used to doing it, namely in Ashbacher mode. I'm already looking forward to when you're involved and then you can play out your personal qualities.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6745	Mr Zopf. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6766	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators in front of the TV screens! Everyone and every unemployed person is one and one too much. The unemployment benefit does not create a job, so we have decided to take this money now and to strengthen those measures, to change and improve and not to stop. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The Government shall adopt measures: EUR 1.5 billion for short-time work, EUR 700 million for the employment fund for the re-training of job-seekers, EUR 57 million for the training requirement up to EUR 18, 105 million for the reintegration of long-term unemployed. Our principle is: Help for self-help. Short work is the most prestigious and best means of crisis for the labour market, Mr Loacker. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] They accuse our entrepreneurs of abuse from home. That's directly objectionable! [[Abg. Belakovich: Direct?- Oh, my God!]] We're in control. If there is abuse, it will also be punished. However, we cannot say from home that our entrepreneurs do not deal honestly with the short work. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: That's what the short said!]] With the start-up bonus, we have created a means of attracting part-time employment. For all those who become unemployed out of full employment, this is now an incentive to get back into the working world and also to take on a part-time job. Especially single parents vote Incredibly and are particularly affected by the crisis. In my opinion, the restart bonus is a perfect measure and especially suitable for single mothers and fathers or single earners. He allows you to better unite job and family and nevertheless work for a salary from which you can also live as a single parent, and that with a part-time job. Just after a crisis, it is clear that it cannot be started from zero to one hundred. The start-up bonus also provides incentives for the operation to recruit part-time workers, and above all allows for a gradual return to the working world. [[Abg. Belakovich:... Part-time workers?- Oh, my God!]] Our aim is to bring and keep as many people as possible in employment. The task of politics – our task! – it is to create good conditions. Jobs are not made by politics, but by entrepreneurs. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Neßler.]] [[Abg. Belakovich:... is a dared thesis!]] The basis of life of a functioning social state is a thriving economy. The farmer needs a good feeding ground for his fields; we create a good soil for the economy and the related jobs. We are therefore also responding to changes in the labour market. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] The crisis has accelerated many processes, especially home office has gained great importance during the pandemic. It is now up to us, together with the social partners, to create a system that works for businesses and workers. What can each of us do to deal with the crisis? – If we stand together, we will immunise and test together! After that, when we start off the crisis again: We buy regionally, we make vacations in Austria, we create a business package called own responsibility of all Austrians! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] Finally, I would like to thank our new Minister, Mr Kocher, very much for taking up and making available this office as an expert in times of crisis. [[Abg. Belakovich:... the ODP Minister!]] I'm very glad. I am also looking forward to cooperation, because we will work together to develop measures for a functioning labour market.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6892	Member of the Muchitsch Chamber has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6913	Mr President. Minister of Labour! I thought I'd start by asking you a question: Mr Labour Minister, how are you doing in your new responsibility? I think the pressure is great. We have a lot to solve. I'll tell you: Personally, I'm not doing well. I am therefore not doing well because we hear daily about examples of how other countries are doing better than Austria. We don't need to look far beyond the borders. I keep asking myself the question: What makes Germany better so that unemployment there is half as high as in Austria? What makes Slovenia better so that the vaccination rate there is twice as high as in Austria? – Pans have happened, mistakes have happened. Whenever this Federal Government stands the water to the neck, the opposition parties are supposed to jump in, one is to take decisions that one has actually asked for much earlier. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] It comes from this series of ideas – that is, from top to bottom and always without strategy, without a lead time – that countries and communities will then have to implement. [[pointing to the Intergovernmental Bank]] That is why I would like to use this situation to also thank the 2 095 municipalities with all their mayors, councillors and municipal officials for being able to jump in again and again when it comes to improving the mistakes of this federal government. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is your thanks to these communities? – They adopt a Community Investment Act with 1 billion euros, of which only 302 million euros are collected. They make the request to provide additional EUR 1 billion to the municipalities, but they have to repay them. Appreciation and gratitude to the communities in Austria look different – this is not done in this form. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister of Labour, I think all parties agree that we can only secure jobs if we get under control of this pandemic. There's a lot of pans going on. The fact that ski lifts remain open, but shops, gastronomy and schools remain closed does not understand anyone in this country; from entrepreneurs to employees to pensioners no one knows each other. [[Abg. Belakovich: Well, you always agree!]] Those workers who still have a job now wonder how long they still have this job. Those who do not have a job wonder how long they will be unemployed and hope that they will not get into the trap of long-term unemployment. You have been told over the last few days that we are going to talk about Homeoffice. – Minister of Labour, the Home Office Agreement is ready, the social partners have already handed over a complete package to your predecessor. It is only now more up to you and the Minister of Finance to put this into effect and, accordingly, to put it into effect. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Labour Minister, in order to increase emergency aid to the level of unemployment benefit, the SPÖ submitted a completed legislative proposal here in December. This would have assured all those concerned before Christmas that there would be an extension. This request was allocated to the Committee at the time. Mr Labour Minister, yesterday at 8.15 p.m., the social partners were with you and recently asked to implement this increase; and today we read in a daily newspaper that all of this has already been done. – Fair cooperation looks different, Minister of Labour. I really ask you to change that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we want to get out of this labour market crisis, we have to get out of it. It does not help if we go down here and take advantage of investment packages and, and, and talk, but we need contributions, we need papers, we need concrete proposals. We also take advantage of the opportunity to invest accordingly in green deals and climate protection measures and create jobs! Let us also pick up the EUR 3 billion available in Brussels in the area of the Corona reconstruction fund for Austria! These funds are there. Please, Minister of Labour, do this! We support you in collecting these funds for new jobs in Austria. In order not only to speak beautifully and to demand things, I have brought you two programmes once a Marshall plan concerning jobs in the climate crisis, once a building-active package for communities, for private and public investors. [[Keeping these brochures in height]] We must finance ourselves from this crisis with concrete proposals. I can pass it on to you and hope for fair cooperation in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6995	Mr Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7016	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, you have told us a lot of persuasions here today. This is very nice of you, but it cannot, in fact, be fooled by this social policy revelation before which we stand. There are currently about 533,000 people who are unemployed. There are 440 000 persons in short-time work. That means that in about a million people are sentenced to nothing. The answer that came from you was rather thin. You have described to us the state of the state of affairs, which I take note of – but you have not said how you really want to deal with this problem. Going there, you owe us the answers. However, you gave a press conference yesterday – as fair as I would like to be – together with the Minister of Tourism, where you have been philosophyd about the investments in the gastro and tourism sectors that are now to come. At the same time, however, the Grand Hotel Europa in Innsbruck had to auction the inventory. Café Landtmann and Café Mozart will suffer a similar fate. These are not some small businesses, but these are traditional businesses, Mr. Federal Minister. You can't sit down and say, It's gonna be all right. - It won't work like that. In addition, it is difficult for us to leave the children at home. The schools are still locked. The ballast in the formation of today is the economic miscarriage of tomorrow. Mr Federal Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, please open the schools. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The department supervisor of gastronomy in the Chamber of Commerce described it even more dramatically. He said: “The hat burns lightly in all directions.” – and that’s exactly how it is. The hat burns not only in the gastronomy, the hat burns throughout the economy. Many entrepreneurs do not know how to proceed, nor do many workers know how to proceed. What was the Federal Government's answer? – The answer was the Homepage Kaufhaus Österreich. Thank God, ladies and gentlemen, if that is the answer of the Federal Government. What you're doing is nothing else. Willing demonstrations, announcements, permanence paroles. You're in the middle of it, too, Minister. That's why I can't save you now, because you've done it the same way today. The problem in this Federal Government is that self-scheduling is more important. The second concerns the social security institution of the industrial economy. It now announces that it would like to make due the amount due. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a guarantee by the government of possible indemnifications? – Nothing comes from the Federal Government in this regard. Entrepreneurs are still waiting today. The question will, of course, be whether this is immediately due and whether there will be any possibility of payment of instalments at all. Mr President, you haven't set my time again; there are 5 minutes left. I'm slow to notice that you always don't set the clock with me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] This is precisely the problem, because SMEs are particularly affected, although they are precisely those who have made our economic location so large. Just these entrepreneurs leave you in the dark, these workers leave you in the dark. There is no answer from you, ladies and gentlemen. Let us look at what economic growth is like! – If the GDP in Austria is 1.5 percent, we have de facto zero growth. Unfortunately, the OECD has correctly assessed this government of God – that is what we really have to say – because it has already said months ago that there will be zero growth in Austria. Their answer to it was nothing but to extend, extend and extend this lockdown – and whether it was on 7. We will see everything locked up on February, because I don't think your announcements are a word anymore. You can't believe your announcements either, if you've been watching the theater of the last few weeks, ladies and gentlemen. Every week Lockdown – Minister of Labour, listen carefully! – costs us more than 15,000 unemployed and takes us another 0.1 percent from economic growth. Therefore, it is now necessary to open up trade immediately, to open the gastronomy, to open up the tourism companies of winter tourism, at the same time, of course, a consistent protection of the risk groups. What do we do if we know that it is the risk groups that suffer, and if we know that the mortality rate is 0.05 percent for those under 65? Lock immediately with security regulations! The most important thing is – and this is also your job as Minister of Labour, and you come from economic research –: Just lock up the schools – today! It's the investment in the future. You not only take our children's future, you take the whole country's future. They are responsible for the fact that at some point we might be sleeping in an economic disaster, coming into a social crisis from which there will be no more escape.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7084	Mr Koza is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7105	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the government parties submit a request for a further extension of emergency aid to the level of unemployment benefit by the end of March 2021. Especially to us Greens, this further extension was very important. It brings to the directly concerned, to the people who receive emergency aid – very often the people who have been unemployed for a very long time – a significantly better social security. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ries.]] This increases your emergency aid by 8 to 9 percent. This is particularly useful for those people who were unemployed before the Corona crisis and who now had no chance of finding a corresponding employment in the Corona crisis. This is exactly the group that will present special challenges to us in the coming weeks and months, because people who have been unemployed for a long time are particularly affected by the risk of poverty. We know that around 46 percent of the long-term unemployed are vulnerable. The increase in emergency aid – which has also been confirmed by the studies in September – is an effective measure to reduce at least the risk of poverty if it cannot be prevented. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As regards emergency aid, it must in principle be said that it has proved to be a particularly effective automatic stabilizer in order to break down the loss of income in order to stabilise demand. Unemployment benefit and emergency aid are very important tools in phases of longer unemployment to overcome financial distress. I hope that the emergency aid, which has always been controversial here in the house and has been discussed over and over again, is largely undisputed. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It has also been shown that the emergency aid of social assistance or minimum security is clearly superior because it can be requested quickly, unbureaucratically and simply and is simply an indispensable means of combating poverty. A view of the next weeks and months: If, thanks to the vaccination, the health crisis will finally be overcome if the economy can rise again and there will actually be an economic upturn, the central task will be to create sustainable employment, which is, however, not only “work” – and above all, good work. What do you need to do? – It has already been addressed today and the course has already been set in part: One aspect is, of course, education, qualification, reorientation into jobs with perspective. We have industries – as we cannot imagine – in which after the crisis it will no longer be the way it was before the crisis. It will simply be necessary to invest in the future, in jobs with perspectives, in industries with perspectives – and to train people in this regard – in green jobs, in jobs where digital knowledge is required, but also in social jobs, in the care economy. If we have learned something from this crisis, then how important a well-functioning social state is, how important a strong social state is to help us get through this crisis. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the term "social state" refers not only to unemployment insurance, to minimum insurance or to social assistance. The social state also includes the institutions of care, the health institutions, and thus tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of employees. There are high employment potentials. In particular, the field of care is a major social challenge – since it will have to be trained, it will have to be invested. Of course, we also invest: We have chained billions of investments in the field of climate protection. We will invest in renewable energies. We will invest in public mobility, we will invest in the urgently needed ecological transformation of the economic system. [[Abg. Krisper: We're going to be! We'll be!]] – It happens already! These investments create jobs, these investments represent enormous challenges for the budgets, but they are necessary because we have to invest out of the crisis. Finally, direct employment measures will be required, some of which have already been mentioned. We already have the apprenticeship bonus, we have expanded the OCTA to combat youth unemployment, but the biggest challenge remains the long-term unemployment, which now directly affects 170 000 people. These are people who, in part, have lost their prospects, their hopes for good work, on good jobs, and are particularly difficult to find a job because they are also ill health. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] They too have the right to a good life and a good job. I am therefore convinced that we will also need special employment programmes for long-term unemployed people – the Minister of Labour has clearly shown themselves in this regard. Mr. Minister, a comprehensive programme against poverty and unemployment is not available at a zero rate. That costs, but we have to afford it.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7166	The closing sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7181	What we cannot afford is poverty, poverty risk and prospectlessness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7208	Member of the European Parliament is speaking on behalf of Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7230	Mr President. Estimated Minister! I must say that the hopes were great that you will be able to offer a platform at this current hour so that you can also present your ideas to the House. Unfortunately, there has been a different approach, the ÖVP has once again tried to instrumentalize. Before addressing the issue of labour market policy, I would like to take a brief look at the statements made by my three previous speakers. On the one hand, Klubobmann Wöginger spoke about it, that we should only “persever once again”, please, “keep going again”! So when it comes to holding on to vaccination, vaccination, vaccination, I support you. You wish for nothing but more daily vaccinations. I'll give you an example. If you want to return to what the EU and the woman want from the Leyen, we need 45 000 vaccines every day from today to June. That won't happen. Let's do this on all the mayors: If you had vaccinated all the mayors in an hour and a half, we would not have the problem either. That would be possible, but we can't. ==References== July 2020, I think, has referred to our southern EU neighbours as states that are "broken into their systems". But I think that's what he meant to us. Our own system is broken because we don't manage to vaccinate now. - That's a point. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Before I come to my favorite colleague's head, I would of course also like to refer to the statements made by his fast-named cousin Zopf, who meant that a restart bonus would help only a small number of employees or part-time workers. I think I'm in the wrong movie: We should promote full employment and not poverty in women! [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] I don't know what nonsens you're going to do. Finally, to colleagues' head, who is upset by a bonus malus system: I didn't look at the wifi homepage now, whether there are accounting and balance sheet rates, but these would be something for colleagues' head to find out what such a bonus malus system means. If you're upset about this - - – Let me finish, I've got you talking too! [[Abg. Head:... this arrogance!]] In the case of charges one would have to receive a bonus or pay a malus afterwards. I think we agree that we want to eliminate injustices. These injustices have not yet passed through the Chamber of Commerce, and I am disappointed because Mr. Kopf, Mr. Wöginger, and all others are talking first of one shoulder closure, but then they are making themselves and trying to pull off their political show – and then there is nothing to be seen from a shoulder closure. We could have discussed subject matter, but not so that you can get out of here and hit party-political change again. An shoulder clasp, ladies and gentlemen, looks very different. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Musical.]] Minister Kocher also spoke of an investment in the future, yes. Gerald Loacker has already mentioned how to understand the Fuest quote. In terms of content, I give you the right to do so. The paradox is that we have high unemployment and, at the same time, a high shortage of skilled workers and will continue to have a high shortage of skilled workers. In the future, we will have a much greater lack of motivation among young people who are now completing a school degree that is now making the Matura. We should now think – and I appeal again to the ÖVP, to the Chamber of Commerce – about whether we would urgently need another school system, namely, with medium-term maturity and a teaching with Matura, because we need the specialists of the future, we must remember to integrate even those young people who are now visionless and forwardless – that is an important point. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Despite this point, despite the question of schooling, we should still think of one thing – and I miss the concepts of the future, I also miss the discussion about post-corona time now –: How do we finance this, and how do we achieve more employment again? My appeal is more than ever, Minister of State, that you at the Council of Ministers ensure that the cost factor of work decreases dramatically. This is one of the most important keys, because only one must be given: Employees need to earn more and cost less. That's what we all have to write behind our ears, and I'd be very happy about that. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It should therefore be noted that at this stage we should think more about the future and perhaps invest our thoughts in the question of how we put it best. I hope you will not be swallowed so overlapping by the ÖVP that you forget your thoughts that you have given of yourself in the last six years. It is about the future, it is about jobs, and it is mainly about Austria's economic location. I mention it again: “States that are broken in their systems. ” – I have doubts that it is.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7297	That was a long closing point. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:22:41]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7322	We are now coming to the current European hour on the subject: “No European intelligence information for the BAT – Austria in the black hole of the common European terrorist fight by failure of the Interior Ministers in recent years” The following Members of the European Parliament were nominated for participation in the current hour of Europe: Mr Mandl, Mr Regner, Mr Haider, Mr Vana and Mr Gamon. If you are already here, I can welcome you very warmly in our midst. I also welcome the Federal Minister for the Interior. Mr Einwallner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7357	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! After the current hour of the health crisis, I am allowed to transfer to the current hour of Europe. I am as concerned with many of you: that the subject of the health crisis naturally takes a lot of space and sometimes one gets the feeling that there are no other important and relevant policy issues. But the opposite is the case: There are a number of policy areas that need to be dealt with urgently and urgently. Security policy is one of these issues. There we see on the one hand. On the other hand, there is a great need for action and large deficits in this Federal Government. Ladies and gentlemen, for this reason we are devoting this current European hour to security and, in particular, to a subject area that has been working on us for some time, namely that the Austrian BAT, the intelligence service, is no longer provided with sufficient information by European intelligence services. The responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, lies clearly with the Ministry of the Interior and the ÖVP, which this Ministry has held for 20 years. Unfortunately, Europe has been the target of terrorist attacks for many years. We all know the terrible pictures from Paris, from Brussels, from Madrid, from Berlin, and of course we all have the attack of Vienna completely present. Terrorist networks are changing and the associated challenges are rising to us – Islamist terrorism, extremism has international structures, and there is no central leadership, but a brutal ideology that connects these people. Even if it can be assumed that it was a single culprit in Vienna, one must say: Although he killed alone, in the background there is a mass of ideological and spiritual arsonists, and we must stop them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, this background also shows quite clearly how important and how crucial it is that we have a functioning constitutional protection and a functioning intelligence service that is fully integrated into the networks of the European partner services. The fact is, however, that Austria is still not fully integrated with the BAT, and in doing so, the inconvenient house search, which took place three years ago, is only a small episode. The fact is that ÖVP Minister of the Interior has been using the BAT and the Ministry of the Interior as a political gameball for 20 years. The fact is, Minister of the Interior, that you have set yourself as one of the priority objectives of reforming constitutional protection. What have you implemented so far? – No legislative text is available to this Parliament. So this reform is on the increase, and nothing is happening yet. One year has passed, and we are not a step further, ladies and gentlemen – and this at the expense of security. As it actually looks out in the BAT, the result of the investigative committee also proves – a committee of inquiry which we have presented differently, because we would rather have seen a strong parliamentary investigation commission, but even the investigative committee that you yourself have compiled presents a devastating witness to you in the first interim report. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] All the errors in dealing with the assassin of Vienna, which happened in advance, lie in your responsibilities, Minister of the Interior Nehammer. There is a whole list of shortcomings that we now have black on white, and that starts with that one the risk assessment did not take place in October 2019, but only in October 2020 – that it remained for one year. This continues: the fact that you have left all the information you have received regarding the purchase of ammunition in Slovakia and you have not used it. The findings from the Vienna attack are the following – and this is demonstrated by the report of this Commission of Inquiry: It seems to be a resource problem. It is a resource problem that everything remains so long and nothing happens. It was also not forwarded accordingly to the Public Prosecutor's Office. I repeat: One of the main objectives of the Minister of the Interior is to reform the constitutional protection and fight terrorism. Now it could be believed that a Minister of the Interior, who puts this at the top of the agenda, is top-informed on these issues, but the report of the Commission of Inquiry shows that: On the question of the state of information of the Minister of the Interior and the Director-General for Public Security, the Commission of Inquiry has come to the conclusion that they have all been only rudimentarily informed, i.e. they have a poor level of information. On a central issue which seems to be so important to you, Minister of the Interior, let yourself not be properly informed, but only rudimentary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And then you shine in your parade discipline: as much as possible staging, large-scale announcements, if possible in a martial language – I remember the flex with which you wanted to fight the corona virus – and then quite a lot of distraction – a lot of distraction! One of these distraction strategies was: We need a terrorist package now! But what are the facts now, Mr. Minister? – The facts regarding the terrorist package are also clear: Even here the experts come to realize that there is no need for action in the criminal law of terrorism, no! There is a need for action within the authority because there are no resources – and that is your responsibility, Federal Minister! To intensify the legal situation constantly and on the other hand not to provide the resources – neither human nor financial or organisational – that is your responsibility, that is the responsibility of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's where the old ÖVP meets the responsibility, but it always hits the ÖVP because you've been driving your beings there for 20 years. But what are the further steps it needs? . We now urgently need the next reform steps, and quickly. I believe that this is the important thing we need to do now: reform the BAT reform, reform the constitutional protection quickly, and there will need more than a new organigram, since it will need more than a few jobs to change. This must be accompanied by parliamentary control at international level, as we call for it. By the way, the only concrete proposal that lies here in the house is that of improving the parliamentary control of the BAT, a proposal by the opposition parties. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, we propose that there be a general government anti-terrorism centre. A terrorist defence centre would have the following meaning: no additional authority, no invading, but a body where all information – the information of the constitutional protection, the information of the military intelligence in one place – is pooled in order to ensure that terrorism defence is effectively and well implemented. That would be the important points. Ladies and gentlemen! With the steps I have outlined, that is to say reforming BAT, creating anti-terrorism centre, structures for strong parliamentary control, it is possible to have this loss of confidence, this lost confidence, which we above all have. At European level, international partner services have lost to combat and restore this confidence. This would be urgently necessary, Minister – urgently necessary in the sense of the security of the Austrians. Actually, this would be quite easy to achieve, Minister: Just stop seeing the Interior Ministry as a political game ball and just do your job and just once! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This has been earned by the many police officers who care for security every day, and it has earned the Austrian population, and you owe it to the Austrian people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7478	The Federal Minister for the Interior has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7500	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Einwallner is quite right: the need for reform of the old constitutional protection was and is more than visible. Constitutional protection is 20 years old; it is the protective wall of the Republic, and it is undisputed that the protective wall of the Republic has been cracked. That is precisely why this federal government has already set itself the goal of comprehensively reforming and re-establishing the constitutional protection programme in the government programme. I can now be an interior minister for a year, and in February last year I gave the project order to start exactly with this reform of constitutional protection, with that man as a project manager, who has been used by one of my predecessors as Minister of the Interior, who enjoys high reputation here in the house, namely Wolfgang Peschorn, in order to lighten the protection of the Constitution. This is Dr. Franz Ruf, now Director-General for Public Security. He is the project manager for this and thus one of the most important projects in the security history of the Second Republic. Yes, it's a comprehensive project. Why? – Because not only do we want to make small changes, not cosmetics, but we really want to completely change and rebuild the structure of constitutional protection according to the latest findings. These latest findings say that it is necessary to separate the intelligence part from the state police, that there needs to be a comprehensive rescheduling of training, selection and security review. Now, Mr Einwallner, I am a little surprised – since I still know from our time together at the Danube University that you have a good memory – since important legislative steps have already been taken here in the House, which – yes, that's true – have been blocked in the Federal Council, which has slowed down, but which finally took effect in September. These three important points were exactly the last ones I have listed: We have re-regulated the training that is important if employees want to get into constitutional protection, and also for those existing who can or should remain. We have changed the selection criteria. We have set up an objective selection procedure, which is three-stage for future new employees in constitutional protection, and the first stage of the selection process is anonymized so that influences can be excluded as far as possible from the outset. That was also training and selection, security check. This is a very important point, which has been decided here in the House. Why? – Because Just this security check is the basic condition for the trust of the partner services, and there was indeed a serious loss of trust, you did the right thing. And yes, thanks to the reform steps we have already begun, confidence in the Republic of Austria, in its constitutional protection, has again increased significantly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Now, of course, you can claim – and you do not mind – that this is a safeguard claim of the Minister of the Interior: What else is he supposed to say? When it comes to the Interior Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Horst Seehofer, when it comes to our partners in Israel, is it the Israeli Interior Minister, when it comes to the partners in the USA, then the security officers are there as far as the CIA and also the FBI are concerned. The latter were among the most important allies when it came to the background of the devastating terrorist attack of the 2nd century. It's the first time I've seen it. As far as the important cooperation with Israel is concerned, trust could also be regained, because we have succeeded in the fight against the Muslim Brotherhood, because we have succeeded in a massive blow against Hamas' financing networks, and Hamas is spreading suffering and terror. And yes, honourable Member Einwallner, this success is also attributed to police officers of federal and state-level constitutional protection. That is, we need to reform and re-establish ourselves in a comprehensive way. We are thanks to God also with the coalition partners in the crucial phase, so that we now vote in the final phase of the legal framework to create the basic structure – this separation of intelligence and state police. Unlike some of the not so successful models, these are not in separate institutions, but in an organisational unit, which means that on the one hand, the information of the intelligence service, which deals with the investigation of the dangers, and on the other hand, the information of the state police dealing with the defence of the threat, so that there is no loss of information. Not even 48 hours after the devastating terrorist attack, it was important to me as an Interior Minister and the Minister of Justice, where errors were demonstrated in the respective areas – the Federal Constitutional Protection, the National Constitutional Protection, the Ministry of Justice, and the judicial institutions – and possible improvements are necessary. Yes, Mr Einwallner, I am fully aware of this Commission report because it supports and helps us in the re-establishment of constitutional protection, and I say a great deal of thanks for the courage and determination of the Commissioners to point out the mistakes in a merciless and clear way. It is precisely these findings that will also be included in the reform of the new constitutional protection, because that is necessary and correct. Only one foreclosure: There is no organization in which people work in which no mistakes occur. The decisive thing is that we are now rebuilding a structure that recognizes errors and, above all, does not repeat them. This is indeed an expensive and difficult project, and it is a very demanding task for the employees. Yes, in this Second Republic, we are indeed at high risk, on the one hand, of jihadist terrorism, which comes with the terrorist attack on 2nd. On the other hand, we are threatened by a far-right scene, which, on the other hand, has manifested itself to a great extent. The last weapon find – also a proof of international cooperation – has shown it again: over 100 fully automatic weapons, more than 40 kilos of explosives, hand grenades, explosives All kinds, ammunition, magazines. That is to say, we must be vigilant here, and also in this area, cooperation with the Federal Republic of Germany, which unfortunately has suffered from extreme right-wing terror for several years, is very important and important. I would like to mention a European organisation that has shown how important cooperation and the trust of the services are to each other: Europol. Thanks to Europol's cooperation with the FBI's partner services in the USA, it has been possible to conduct very quickly targeted investigations in the context of the defendant, which Mr Einwallner spoke of. What does that mean for the future, ladies and gentlemen here in the House? – We have launched a comprehensive reform process. We have created framework conditions for the selection of personnel and for the acquisition of personnel. We now have to create the laws for the structure, and I formally promote your consent, the consent of the opposition to this project, because constitutional protection itself should not be a game ball of party policy tactics, but a general concern. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What steps have been taken by me to gain your trust and to involve you from the opposition? – Experts from all the parties represented here are involved in this reform process. The Director-General for Public Security has been instructed by me to hold talks with all the security spokesmen of Parliament, which has now happened several times to inform about the reform process and at the same time receive suggestions from the opposition parties. From my point of view, we are on an important, good, constructive path. There is a need for strong constitutional protection because the threat situations are getting less, but more. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen here in the House, I would like to ask for a conclusion in the fight against terrorism, in the fight against organised crime, because with this closeness we also express the agreement that the new constitutional protection will have great and broad support here in the House in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7600	Mr Mahrer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7621	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Values Advisors! Mr Einwallner, we agree, it is undisputed, the BAT is in a continuing crisis, at least for more than two years. But perhaps this debate today is also an opportunity to think about it and remind everyone of how this crisis and who caused this crisis with far-reaching and international consequences. What happened in February 2018? – House searches took place in the BAT and in private homes of employees. At the time, the Minister of the Interior was Herbert Kickl, who, by the way, did not participate in today's debate, as I see it. Herbert Kickl has always opened up to the public at the time: At the BAT, I want to clean up!, and this has been done successfully by Minister of the Interior Kickl and his Secretary General Goldgruber through massive pressure on justice. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The consequences were and are fatal. The so-called cleaning up of the then Minister of the Interior Kickl has permanently damaged the reputation in the BAT in Germany and abroad as well as its structures and has thrown out many employees in the BAT completely. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riser]] Address Mr Kickl: It wasn't responsible! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I emphasize, ladies and gentlemen, that is not just my personal opinion. The confirmation of this situation is given by relevant experts, by many reports, but currently by the interim report of the independent Commission of Inquiry, which has already been discussed today. [[Abg. Steger: ÖVP experts!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I quote from this report of the Independent Investigation Commission, page 23: “In addition, the BAT has a great uncertainty about the workforce, which is due in particular to the search campaign in 2018.” – These are the facts. [[Abg. Stefan: My God, my tears are coming!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Stefan: That's why you couldn't take the news from Slovakia into account! The tears are coming to me!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that this house search in the BAT was not only follow-up, but also illegal, has now found the Oberlandesgericht Wien. The fact that a suspension from a European intelligence network in the room is soon to come up with is no further wonder – ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ and also the ladies, perhaps you listen to a bit of a message so that you can also direct Mr Kickl; that is very important now! – and thus the BAT had to take out voluntarily from the working groups of this expert body, the intelligence network and ensure with very sensitive methods that operational cooperation with the European intelligence services still works. [[Abg. Belakovich: You do it to the chancellor, you only tell falsehoods!]] [[Abg. Steger: Fairy tale hour of the ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Stefan: Slovakia?]] - Thank you at this point. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there were also serious other security incidents, remember the paper of this European intelligence network, which appeared in the magazine “Falter”! [[Abg. Stefan: Exactly!]] Remember that the Soteria report, a report by experts on the state of the BAT, has been submitted to media! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] These were serious security incidents, incidents that cost confidence. [[Abg. Stefan: What time does that refer to?]] You can also send Mr Kickl the following: The “Süddeutsche Zeitung” wrote in May 2019, an important time at that time – quote – “Until now stands the suspicion in the room that Kickl wanted to protect legal radicals from the persecution of justice, that he wanted to rebuild the constitutional protection according to his opinion and occupy it with his own people. [[Abg. Stefan: The “Süddeutsche Zeitung” is really superior to every suspicion!]] An immense process.” – That’s what the “South German newspaper” says. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the rubble that Herbert Kicklhinter has left is unique and confirms this assessment. [[Abg. Stefan: What does the South German write about the short?]] Thank God, I can only say that we now have an interior minister Karl Nehammer, who regains international trust step by step. [[Abg. Belakovich: Say, don't you generate yourself?]] However, we now need to recast the Constitutional Protection – Mr Nehammer has described it in detail. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Are you talking about the matter?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] This is not only a central point in the government programme, it should also lead to that – and I am therefore already going to the conciliatory part, namely the future – to show whether we are able to bring about a cross-party agreement, especially on the subject of constitutional protection and combating terrorism, which are so infinitely important for the people of Austria. [[Abg. Belakovich: Well, please ned!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: We have seen how successful he was!]] I am quite honest with you that I will make a very great effort in my role as chairman of the Committee on the Interior, as well as the Federal Minister, that we may perhaps create a broad majority. That would be in the interest of parliamentarianism, that would be in the interest of constitutional protection and that is in the interest of the Austrians. [[Abg. Belakovich: The ÖVP!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7922	Klubobmann Leichtfried is reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7943	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is not only health-political in a difficult, very sensitive situation, no, the situation is also extremely worrying in terms of safety policy. This has not only Austrian dimensions, it of course also has European and international dimensions. This is also the reason why we have brought this up as the subject of today's current European hour. This situation has a name; that is quite easy to say. Mr. Mahrer has now tried to talk to Mr. Kickl – a good attempt, but in truth it was 20 years of ÖVP in the Ministry of Interior, 20 years of admirable business, 20 years of party book economy, 20 years of show and 20 years of superiority! [[Crashes with SPÖ and FPÖ]] That is the reason for the situation in which we are now, ladies and gentlemen, and nothing else. We don't need to talk out on Kickl, that's just weakmatic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] At the beginning of November this terrible terrorist attack happened, and it has just happened and it has become visible exactly what we have always warned of: The Ministry of the Interior, the BAT, was unable to take the right measures, no, on the contrary, there have been incredible errors. Many experts say that if these mistakes had not happened, this attack would have been prevented. Mr Federal Minister, the political responsibility for all of this is yours, and I have to tell you – that is not a comfort – that you are quite well placed in the ancestral gallery of your ÖVP predecessors. This is not the way security policy is going, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] What happened afterwards is something you have to address here and which, in my opinion, is remarkable: After the attack, it was not about showing the mistakes and learning from them, no, it was about covering up the mistakes. [[Federal Minister Nehammer shakes his head.]] It has not been a question of taking responsibility, no, it has been a matter of deceiving responsibility! [[Federal Minister Nehammer shakes his head again.]] It was you and the Federal Chancellor who said on the day of the attack that the justice had to answer. However, the experts have made it clear that justice is not at all a fault, but there were problems in the field of the Ministry of the Interior. That's also something you have to address quite clearly. Mr Federal Minister, it was not just the faults, it was also the way you responded: If something doesn't work and if the error slows Then we try a law-enhancement show – I call it that. If nothing else helps, let's just sit down and say, We're making things sharper, we're making things more drastic! – Only: Unfortunately, the same experts you have used have found that it is not in the laws, it is due to the mistakes made, and it is because there is too little money and too little staff in the Ministry of the Interior. [[Federal Minister Nehammer shakes his head.]] These are the things to be accounted for – and it is through 20 years, acting ministers of the ÖVP who are responsible for this, Mr. Nehammer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I say one thing to you – and this is now the call of social democracy to you: End the party book economy at last! Stop the arts industry! Stop showin'! Stop being overly oblivious! Do your fucking job once again as long as you're in this chair!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8037	Mr Amesbauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8058	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The black holes of the BAT are the theme of this current European hour of SPÖ. This means that the BAT does not receive any foreign or too little foreign information. Well, there was, of course, a loss of trust in friendly services – this is in the Berne Club's report, in which our partner services are organized with us, also stoned and clearly read – and there were many reasons for this, for example, that the BAT employee was not properly checked that not enough or not qualified persons were raised in certain functions, especially in leadership functions – these were, of course, all party members of the ÖVP; Party book before qualification, which is a system that has been living in BAT for nearly two decades, and there is also a climate of mutual distrust there – and it has been complained that employees have taken private phones into high security areas, and so on and so on. - That's one. What you, Minister of the Interior, and your authorities for which you have political responsibility is to blame is that the failure has occurred despite the fact that the information of foreign intelligence services has been stoned and clearly placed on the table. You can't forget that either: Nevertheless, the flow of information from the European partner services has always worked relatively well, and in the case of the terrorist attack of the previous year that we have just spoken of and the four people have cost their lives, there have been news from the Slovak authorities and the German authorities. A little bit about chronology: On 5.12.2019, the conditional release of this Mr. K. F., the Lord, who tried to travel via Turkey first to Afghanistan in 2018 to join the Taliban – which failed – and then tried to move on to Syria to fight for the ISIS – failed. He was arrested in Turkey and brought back to Austria, was arrested immediately in Austria and brought to justice – by the way then under the Minister of the Interior Herbert Kickl. So you also have to correct this: Under Herbert Kickl, this man was admitted to justice, was detained and under your rule in the BMI, he was no longer arrested despite oppressive evidence. You'll have to put that right in front of you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As said, on 5.12.2019 there was just a conditional release of detention, and on 6.12., that is, one day after the release of detention, was the first need of this person, a to visit the mosque under observation and meet with Islamists there. Over several months, he has repeatedly visited relevant mosques under surveillance – and this, please, everything under the surveillance of constitutional protection! All of this is documented in the interim report of this Commission, which Minister Nehammer has put in place. You know, we have seen this Commission very, very critically and still do so because we would have preferred parliamentary control. That is why, together with the NEOS and with the Social Democrats, we have also made a request to strengthen and expand parliamentary control – which is not really satisfactory at the moment – in the course of the BAT reform – but it is all about it. You have set up this Commission, which actually had the objective of being a Nehammer Cleansing Commission, but not even this Commission has managed to clean up Nehammer. [[Federal Minister Nehammer shakes the head]] On the contrary, it has become a remarkably open and merciless report. One of the key points – from my point of view – that document this BAT and authority failure is first of all this Islamist meeting, which took place in Vienna in July 2020. The German BKA warned our authorities about this and under the eyes of the protection of the Constitution a multi-day meeting took place in July with Islamists, jihadists from the Federal Republic of Germany and from Switzerland, including sightseeing tour through the Vienna mosque scene. - Nothing happened. They're 20 years old. July left again. ==References== This attempt to buy ammunition in Slovakia took place on July, i.e. a day after this observing meeting. The Slovak authorities immediately informed the BAT about this attempted ammunition purchase. The BAT did what? - It didn't do anything. It left this information at all for a month, then it was passed on to the LVT. The LVT confirmed the identity the next day. There was a back and forth: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! But the fact is: ==References== October, the Slovak authorities have undoubtedly confirmed the identity of the later defendant, and this is the last time – I think you should have intervened earlier, but that is the very last time – when there are no more excuses on which the BAT should have acted. - The BAT didn't do anything. The BAT should have informed the prosecutor's office and then the prosecutor could have taken steps: Home searches up to the arrest and arrest. That is, if the BAT had worked properly, this perpetrator should have been removed from traffic and the attack would have been prevented, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. That's the unstained truth! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is a total failure of our constitutional protection – you can't speak beautifully, you can't discuss it away. As you know, Mr Mahrer, you can't come with house searches that took place almost two years earlier and were ordered by the prosecutor's office, as you know. That has nothing to do with it. The Authority, the BAT, has not informed the public prosecutor. So there was no way to pull this perpetrator out of traffic – and you can't tell it by yourself. Of course, you are not personally responsible for these transactions, but there is also a political responsibility for a public administration failure that cost four lives at the end of the day. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8137	The closing sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8158	You have this political responsibility, Mr Nehammer, and we will keep reminding you of it, and the only necessary and proper consequence would be to take responsibility, withdraw responsibility and thus open the way for a proper reform of the constitutional protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8185	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8206	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin with a few comments on a major demonstration by so-called corona critics and coronalists on Saturday in Vienna. Freedom of assembly is a bearing pillar of our democracy, but it is not a free letter for thousands of people to be grossly negligent, even deliberately at risk of their fellow human beings' health, and it is none of them for dozens, if not hundreds of city and country-known, to march on Vienna's streets. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stefan:... Black Lives Matter!]] A democratic rule of law, a state that uses the monopoly of violence for itself and the sole right to enforce laws, must do so. We cannot leave this task of protecting ourselves from these dangers to our health and democracy, not a few antifascist activists. [[Abg. Belakovich:... how many greens were there?- Oh, my God!]] The task of our authorities and our police is to counter such dangers. And what we may not even be allowed to do is to give the impression that our police are protecting health and democracy hazards and are violent against antifascists. I can't. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] What we can now pursue – and with this I come to the BAT – is the attempt to undermine right-wing extremes throughout Europe, a loose movement of so-called corona critics, whatever you think of them, and this is quite good for this right-wing extreme. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] It's not harmless. That they only talk that they were just big-mouthed, that's what you believed in the USA and was on 6 June. ==References====External links== These were terrible pictures – and no, they are not impossible in Austria. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Right-wing extremes also discuss similar things here with us, quite openly and inextricably. It doesn't even need special technical means or even new monitoring instruments to track this, because it happens openly on the various social media channels. [[Abg. Belakovich: Oh you!]] It only needs people who look at it, who understand it, so employees in the BAT and LVTs and in the police who do not sit there because someone has once provided them with a service post, but who are trained and able to recognize, name and turn them away from such dangers. We must take seriously not only the danger posed by religious extremists, in which we ask ourselves where they have gotten a gun, but also the danger of right-wing extremities that have accumulated all the weapons camps with which you could equip a small army! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Members of Parliament Prince and Belakovich.]] I don't know, Mrs. Colleague, what there is to laugh at. I really don't know, but I don't want to break your humour. [[Abg. Belakovich: Can you say something about the topic?! At the current hour?- Oh, my God!]] This danger of meeting these dangers to our democracy, Mr Federal Minister, we will support you: critical, fundamental, but determined, because the pillars of our democracy, they are not inviolable. [[Abg. Belakovich: You are the danger! This government!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: You do have fundamental rights!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: We've seen that for ten months!]] It is our common task to ensure that they stand still. – Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8368	Next speaker: Mrs Stephanie Krisper. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8389	Madam President. Dear Minister of the Interior! Dear Seers! High house! Ladies and gentlemen. We have two parties in this House, who rise up as supposed security parties. In the last 20 years, one of the two parties has placed 18 years on the Minister of the Interior, ten on the number. The other party joined the history of this Republic with the only Minister of Interior discharged by the Federal President. So, and now we look at the outcome of the security policy of these two parties: We see a state protection which has been run out by 18 years of ÖVP Party personnel policy and lack of resources, a state protection which simply lacks the resources for complex preliminary investigations, a state protection which largely detracts from analytical capacity, a state protection which is disastrously under-reposed in the extremism field, a state protection which is de facto deprived of parliamentary control – and that is what I say as a member of the committee actually appointed to do so – a state protection which is in fact none. Nevertheless, in the era of Minister of the Interior Kickl, the BAT received another death strike through the illegal house search in the BAT. This gave the BAT the rest. But the trust of the partner services – and this is what it is about today – was already disturbed. And why? – By the fact that one allowed Kickl to become Minister of the Interior. I refer once again to a statement of the U.S. mission in Vienna, which has analysed for itself regarding the right-populist Freedom Party’s leadership of the Ministry of the Interior the following: ‘The Freedom Party’s pro-Russian progress should, and does, give us a break when it comes to sharing certification types of sensitive information.’ So it was clear to the Americans, at least, that due to Kickl's ministry one retreats. And who left Kickl the Ministry of the Interior? – The ÖVP. Debt allocations from the ÖVP to Kickl and the FPÖ are therefore a pang for all people who think in the short term. They're really nothing too deep now. All this, as state protection now looks at, is the result of 18 years of EIA and two years of FPÖ security policy. This is bitter reality – and I am not saying this with pangs, but with great concern for security in our country. For example, we now feel the lack of confidence of the Western partners in the case of Jan Marsalek, the submerged wirecard board member. There is no information available to Austria, we work completely isolated. We are isolated in the fields of intelligence and economic espionage. We are not – and that is why this SPÖ theme is today a subject error – isolated in the fight against terrorism. ==References====External links== November was not the problem of lack of international cooperation, but – even worse – the system failure and omission of our security authorities that could have prevented the terrorist attack. The problem, Mr Internal Minister, was not missing criminal laws and the lack of powers, but the corrupt government structure, the lack of resources and the lack of communication between BVT and LVTs, had already been sufficiently identified by the Commission of Inquiry. The question of your personal responsibility based on your knowledge will continue to be addressed, as should the Commission of Inquiry. At the same time, we now have to reform the BAT quickly, which we have said several times here. Together, let us build a BAT, which is not in the service of a party that is just on the push, but with sufficient resources and consistently competent employees can do his job simply to work in the service of security in our country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8437	Next speaker: Mr Christian Stocker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8459	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers and Seers! Actually, I wanted to start my speech quite differently, but openly, my dear colleague, Krisper, makes me Its contribution is almost incompetent, because I did not expect a Member of this House to represent the constitutional protection of this Republic in such a way that it is not only, hollowed out and incompetent, that it can no longer fulfil its tasks, but that it is no longer existent at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Rejoicing with the NEOS]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: Why?]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: Party-politically occupied!]] I really think that this is inappropriate, and that makes me, as I said, unscrupulous. I did not expect anything else from colleagues Amesbauer and the SPÖ, that is clear to me. If it is said here that 20 years of ÖVP-innenminister, and just one and a half years of kickl will be kept silent, I will tell you: [[Abg. Belakovich: That's right!]] If it had been 20 years without kickl, it would have been good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The SPÖ here says that the Razzia has been a small episode, so to speak, without any effect – an illegal house search in the BAT, ladies and gentlemen of this House, with whom the FPÖ of course has nothing to do and with which the former Minister of the Interior does not even find it worth listening to what he has done there, a razzia that has led to illegal seizures! – Don't wake up like that, Mr Amesbauer! [[Abg. Amesbauer: This has nothing to do with the terrorist attack!]] [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Amesbauer.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: I'm not excited!]] It looks like this. [[Abg. Belakovich:... the truth!]] . I know, Mrs Belakovich, that your actual corrections lead to alternative facts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We want to stick to the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Illegal house search, illegal confiscation and unlawful suspension of the head of the BAT – this is your balance sheet, and this leads to the situation we find in the BAT today. – That’s the truth, even if you don’t want to hear it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] How'd it get there? And now I'm saying something that really surprised me in Mr Kickl's last statement. He has now given himself a battle commission, a battle mission against the government. Well, he's in opposition, it's supposed to be so, but as Minister of the Interior to give himself a battle commission against his own ministry, that's unique! [[Abg. Hörl: That's good!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: such a fool!]] – You can read it in the report of the Committee of Inquiry on BAT. [[Abg. Belakovich: such a fool!]] [[Abg. Sobotka: Unfortunately right!]] Inside it stands that the Minister of the Interior had given the order to “clean up. ” [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] The Ministry of the Interior is “as corrupt as ever. ” [[Abg. Amesbauer: This is a smooth lie!]] That was the view of the Federal Minister. Read it in the report of the Committee of Inquiry. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Smooth lie!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Read it! Even the words criminal organization have fallen in connection with the Ministry of the Interior. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Do you say something about the subject?]] Your Minister of the Interior, in his time in which he led the ministry, has given himself this task of fighting. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] This has led to a huge need for reform now. Now I'm gonna tell you something: He has also set up a reform commission. [[Abg. Belakovich: He's not the subject at all!]] – And what has he reformed if everything is so bad in the interior of the house?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] This loss of confidence, which you have caused, has led to enormous uncertainty among officials. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] You disavow with your statements, including you, Mrs. Krisper, the work of these employees who are trying to secure the security of this country and ensure it despite the working time of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Belakovich:... Staff, say that, please!]] - Yeah, I know you're always so upset. I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior for attacking this reform, for clearing up the pieces you left behind. I wish him a lot of success. All that he has said here is positive to me that constitutional protection is going to be a better future.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8762	Mrs Selma Yildirim, you will speak next. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8783	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! Dear spectators in front of the screens! Austria is in the heart of the European Union, at least geographically, and if you look at judicial cooperation at Union level, then, you can say, it works very well. We have Eurojust, and there we have sent very competent, professionally qualified prosecutors who confirm our success in their regular reports. This works judicially at EU level when it comes to combating radicalism, terrorism and other criminal offences. However, it is not ideal on a digital level, there still has to be improvised. Especially in the field of security, security policy, it is important that secure news and communication platforms exist so that our people do not have to improvise with unencrypted emails. First of all, this is very important. What unfortunately does not work – many of my previous speakers, but not only previous speakers, but also the Commission of Inquiry What we all have seen is intelligence cooperation at international level, at EU level, and this is what it is all about. I have listened very carefully to my previous speakers, especially your speech, Mr Minister. You said the protective wall of the Republic got cracks. – Yes, that’s true, you call it, but what bothers me is that you are looking for the debt allocations in old manner. You're pointing to justice, you're distracting, and that's bothering me. A method to fix Mr. Minister, cracks, cracks in a brickwork is certainly not to fill them with black party color or with any party color, but we need qualified, loyal people. I, like many others of you, have looked very closely at what it looks like internationally, and I think we have heard again and again that at international level in the intelligence service the best qualified, regardless of where to locate them, are needed. I can remember that it was also said, even academics are selected there, so those who have proved themselves best. It is a sad truth, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that in this Republic, unfortunately, the color of the party plays a much stronger role than the actual qualification. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My appeal is – we are now really across all political groups – to believe that closeness to a party over all qualifications is almost the all-healing remedy, is a wrong way. Especially now in the crisis or especially in the serious case when something happens and then we are helpless – and I am thinking not only of the intelligence service, but also of many other areas that unfortunately do not work – this leaves the citizens of this country despairing. It's our job not to stay in the past. Yes, I know the ÖVP has been running the Ministry of the Interior for 20 years. Yes, I know I'm talking to a lot of cops who would like to apply but think they're not being located there, they don't have to apply at all. This has to change, and we're here today to make it better for the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One thing is still important: ==References== December, i.e. a day before Christmas, a interim report sent out to the media by the investigative committee. – So I really have to wonder! How serious is that on security issues just before Christmas?- Oh, my God! I had the impression that it's the escape forward, another distraction maneuver. Let us wait for the final result and then look at the situation where we can improve something! It's useless to wipe out eyes, calm people down, calm down, say, We are once again fastening an anti-terrorism package with even stricter penalties!, but without having the necessary personnel and resources. That doesn't lead to anything! I believe, Minister, that it is important that you assume your responsibility, and that is not what I am talking about whether you withdraw or not. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] It doesn't change when the next one comes and the whole system doesn't change. I think it's important that you take your task seriously, that you are serious - -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8847	Ladies and gentlemen, you must now formulate the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8862	I'm worried that your failure would endanger all of our security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8891	The next item is European Parliament Roman Haider. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8913	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, as a European Parliamentary, I would like to ask the question of why the growth and failure of a black swamp in the domestic intelligence service should be the subject of an up-to-date European hour here in the National Council. This has nothing to do with Europe at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Waller.]] This has more to do with international intelligence cooperation, with the CIA or with the British intelligence services, but not with Europe. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Waller.]] There would be great European policy issues to discuss today, for example the total failure of the EU in the Corona crisis, the preparations for a new EU-Migration Pact to open the doors to Europe for migrants from all over the world, or an extremely dubious, questionable investment agreement between the EU and China. We should talk about it here at a current European hour. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But to put the word Europe into the title, just so that one can hold a current hour of Europe, that is, I say quite clearly to you, the abuse of the instrument of the current hour of Europe. Let that be said! And because I'm just doing what's abuse: What the green Member Bürstmayr – I have written it down – has done for the best in this area, that is what sets the floor. Fragile demonstrators who demonstrate against the unscrupulous measures and for their workplace, for their freedom and for their children, here to defame, to put them in the extreme corner is a naughtiness. [[Green call for tender]] Let that be said!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8973	Mr President, I do not know how you manage this in the European Parliament, but of course you know the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the National Council too well, and I therefore ask you to be moderate in your expression. You can now continue in your explanations.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8994	Madam President, I have been here in this House for eleven years, and I know that you especially believe in Members of the Liberals to be chairperson of a girl's pension. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] This is a Parliament, and we can also call it the truth by name, Madam President. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So now that you've taken me half a minute of my speaking time, I suppose I'll get these credited again. If we talk about the BAT, we are talking about the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and the fight against terrorism! If you deal with the miser of this BAT, you have to go back to the beginnings of this authority. The BVT was founded in 2002 by former Minister for the Interior of the ÖVP Ernst Strasser. Do you remember Ernst Strasser, colleagues from the ÖVP? – This is the ex-ÖVP Minister of the Interior, who was then sentenced as EU Deputies of the ÖVP for bribery and went to prison. This is exactly the one who founded the BAT and who obviously also left its corporate culture in the BAT, its traces there, which left a black swamp in this institution, which we still suffer today. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Call the ÖVP:... Ibiza!]] The main task of this Minister of Interior Ernst Strasser was only one: coloring, dyeing, dyeing. Before that, the Ministry of the Interior had been reddish for years, then it had to become black, of course, and he has done so glaringly. He has recolored this Ministry of the Interior and the BAT, still and noch! First of all was the overcoloration, first of all also the post chess and only far back, second or last, came the security of Austria and the protection of the population. This has also clearly led directly to the result that we saw in Austria at the end of last year: the largest Islamic terrorist attack that this Republic has ever seen. That was the result of this black swamp in the BAT and the Ministry of the Interior! – Thank you for this introduction. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strasser: Who wrote the speech?]] I also remember that there have already been two house searches in the BAT under the Minister for the Interior Sobotka. You're always hiding that a little bit. [[Abg. Strasser: This is the... Ibiza!]] It can be summarized very briefly: Only a complete rescheduling of this BVT, a complete rescheduling without any ÖVP networks, can and would save the BVT. It is only in this way that the security of Austria and its citizens can be guaranteed. A fully ÖVP-independent domestic intelligence service would certainly be taken seriously and welcomed by the international partners.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9082	Ladies and gentlemen, I naturally and of course point to that – I use it for all the President-in-Office – that neither the instrument of free speech is restricted in any form nor there is a Party Presidency. This is not just the use of this house, but the practice of living. I now give the floor to Mrs Deputies of the European Parliament, Monika Vana. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9123	Madam President. Dear Member of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Just briefly to my previous speaker: The fact that the FPÖ speaks of abuse in connection with the demonstration on Saturday is courageous. That this demonstration was not a defense of personal freedoms, but rather a march of supporters of right-wing and conspiracy theory ideologies, and that this FPÖ was also proud in the first row, says more than any misguided speech of a FPÖ delegate here. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Bullshit! Lie! Holler!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: No, in the middle!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to return to the real issue of this hour of Europe, on the European dimension of the fight against terrorism. As much as the title of this hour of Europe can be read, so close to us are the effects in this area. Only about 1,000 meters away from here, candles are still remembered in memory of the devastating terrorist attack of the 2nd century. November of the previous year, set up as a sign of mourning. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schnedlitz.]] At the same time, however, it is a call to politics to do everything that never happens again, not in Vienna, not in Paris, Nice or Brussels, not in the world. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Like many others, the fight against terrorism only works unitedly and cross-borderly. As a member of the European Parliament, I must point out that intelligence services, which we are dealing with today, and also the organization of the exchange of intelligence messages, fall entirely into national competence, not within the European Union. [[Abg. Belakovich: It's about... Secret Services, Mrs. Colleague!]] The existing cross-border intelligence exchange structures such as the much quoted Berne Club or the EU Intelligence Analysis Centre, which is an institution of the European External Action Service, are purely national coordination networks without parliamentary control, mostly without legal basis. The European Parliament or even national parliaments have no right to understand. That is more than a questionable thing about democracy, but if it already has to be, it should act in order to protect our democracy. That is why there is an urgent need for Parliamentary control to be extended. All the more so, we welcome the European Commission's comprehensive approach to the anti-terrorism agenda for a security union presented in December, which is more than surveillance and law enforcement. To this end, a quote from the responsible Commissioner, Mr Schinas, says: "The inclusive and right-based approach, which forms the foundation of our Union, is our best protection against terrorist threats. If we create including societies in which everyone can find their place, extremist narratives lose their attraction.” I think – and I do not say that very often – that the European Commission has chosen the right approach. We Greens say out of conviction: Security is inseparably linked to social integration and inclusion. Only a just society is a secure society. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The European Parliament is also pursuing this holistic security policy approach. Deradicalisation, anti-discrimination and the promotion of democracy and fundamental rights must be the cornerstone of anti-terrorism policy. In concrete terms, this means from a green point of view: The proposed new mandate of Europol must not intervene in European fundamental rights. Mass surveillance leads to general suspicion, is ineffective and threatens our open society. The terrorist attack in Vienna has shown that there is no surveillance deficit, but the biggest defect is an execution deficit. Similarly, the Council's ban on encryption would be an end to the digital secrecy of letters, but it does not provide effective protection against terrorism. The European Parliament is clearly positioned in this respect. One last – it has already been mentioned –: The recent findings of arms in the far right scene show that there is an urgent need for action in the fight against national legal terrorism. Even Europol, in the latest EU-terrorism report, warns against underestimation of right-wing extremism in the evaluation of attacks committed and draws attention to the fact that many of the officially known terrorist attacks were only subsequently assigned to right-wing extremism – quote –: The threat of legal terrorism has increased in recent years. – That is, the political bias at this point must have an end. The safety authorities must also not be blind on the right eye. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen, trust is crucial when it comes to security. This is about trust between the authorities, but I would like to stress that as a green person, it is about trust between citizens, civil society and security devices: This is true in Austria, in Europe and worldwide. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9217	Next, the European Parliamentary Claudia Gamon has been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9238	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The prerequisite for good cooperation in Europe in the fight against terrorism and crime constitutes fundamentally stable and effective national authorities. Whether this applies to the BAT is more than open. After 20 years of ÖVP and one and a half years of kickl in the interior resort, the BVT is now completely ruined. These are the consequences of years of political occupations. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] At the moment, however, consequences of political occupations can also be seen in many other places. In itself, this is a scandal everywhere, but one could have thought with a lot of good will that one would not want to take this risk in the matter of security. Today, one is standing in front of the shards of many years of the arts industry. The leaked report of the Berne Club – this is the informal merger of European domestic intelligence services – was devastating as regards the BAT: There is no data security, no personnel security, no building security. In addition, the loss of trust of our partners was apparent because they recognized a lack of integrity of the authority. In order to prevent an outrage from the club, we had to withdraw from almost all working groups. In other words, we were excluded from many truly relevant information flows, and because the intelligence business is based on reciprocity and we were unable to provide information in many areas, none were given to us either. This means that poor work and, in turn, the consequence of this management failure – the political management failure at many levels – have ultimately had a negative impact on the safety of Austrians. It is simply a failure on all levels. After the end of Turquoise-Blue there is still a lot to do. Minister of the Interior, we are really looking forward to the BAT reform. It can't get much worse at the moment, that is, there's a lot of air up there and a lot of potential for improvements there. But now there is also the opportunity to talk about how modern European cooperation, which is well organised, could even look like. The fact that the whole thing works over an informal club is actually a bit oblivious. There is no transparency, the bodies are not responsible to anyone. Today, when we look at how other European institutions are built, this is really no longer a portable state. That is to say, the basic structure or architecture of European cooperation between intelligence services should be re-established so that one can have real confidence that cooperation works. It has been shown in recent years that there has been much suffering in the post-war period, which could have been prevented by better cooperation, including with regard to the attempt to prevent terrorist attacks, and that is really a scandal. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In order to implement this, it really needs proposals: How could this look different at European level? . My Liberal Group in the European Parliament is clearly on the line that Europol is becoming a genuine European police force, almost a European FBI, in order to become truly powerful, work and work effectively. Europol should be a centre for European police work, a centre for coordination and the exchange of information. It must also be clear that one is responsible for politics, Parliament and democracy and must work transparently. Europol also needs a stronger mandate, and Europol needs greater human and financial resources in order to be able to deliver it. It is not a question of what really is the European issue, if it is clearly a national competence. But we can also talk about how much imagination In order to imagine the system quite differently, how it can really work well and truly Europeanally, because it concerns the safety and life of all Europeans. This is not only about how others can help us, but also about how we can help our fellow citizens in Europe in the future if our national authority is working well again, so that we can live more securely on our continent. That should be a goal we all want to pursue.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9304	Next speaker: European Parliamentary Lukas Mandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9326	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister for the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I do not want to say at the outset that it is special for me, who I understand as a passionate and convinced parliamentarian, to be able to speak here. This is our National Council, our red-and-white Parliament, and I am pleased that we can have a European policy exchange. The cooperation between the red and white-red European Parliamentarians is very, very good and over-participative over a wide range of routes. We have therefore partly exchanged over the last week, which would be the subject of the current European hour in the Austrian National Council. No one has given the tip on the subject that we are discussing today, but it is also an important issue in Europe which can be addressed, even if it seems to be very strongly connoted within. Of course, at the European political level, we have other priorities, such as investing in speed and money in the approval of vaccination, or serving the reconstruction fund for jobs and the economic location, Austria being the top in public funding throughout Europe. But let me tell you what, from the point of view of my foreign and security parliamentary responsibility, is the state of the discourse at European level on the intelligence services and on the dangers to which the intelligence services protect us! In his speech, the Minister of the Interior mentioned some of these dangers – Islamist terrorism, radicalization through the ideology of Muslim brothers, as well as cyber attacks, are part of the division of our society from outside. To this end, there is a special committee in the European Parliament – and I should like, ladies and gentlemen, to share with you the results of this Special Committee on the external attacks on our democracy in Europe. These are at the heart of what is at risk of our security. This applies not only to Europe, but also to the storm at the Capitol in the United States a few days ago. We need Europe-wide cooperation between intelligence services, and I can tell you that it will be seen across Europe – and this has been done by the Minister of the Interior at the government level, and I also experience this in the European Parliament – that Austrian constitutional protection will be re-established at the state level, that there will be a separation between the intelligence and the state police function, and it has been so in the past. Let me tell you that Austria's intelligence services have many segments and that Austria has also been connected in the time, in the the problem Kickl in the constitutional protection has occurred in the old BAT! The problem has the name Kickl, let me hold it at this point, the solution has the name Nehammer, and that is the Minister of the Interior who provides for the solution in the field of constitutional protection, a complete new set-up of the Home Message Service. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vocal]] Austria is at the cradle of Intelligence College in Europe, which Emmanuel Macron started as French President in March 2019. Austria is participating in the Strategic Compass, which the German Presidency has launched and the French Presidency will lead to a result in 2022. Austria is involved in the defence of this confrontation, the parts of the world are seeking against us, against our democracy, against our life model. Let me conclude with the following thought, ladies and gentlemen: When I speak of confrontation, it means that we must not be naïve about what other parts of the world do not fit our European model of life and how they attack us. This does not change the fact that we Europeans are looking for cooperation because it is freedom, peace and prosperity. This is the perspective that Austria is also bringing into Europe to a large extent – for a Europe with strength to the outside and with freedom to the inside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9392	The next speaker is Member of the European Parliament Evelyn Regner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9413	Madam President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council and of the European Parliament! Dear Seers! ==References== Terror has hit Vienna in November. I would like to see the survivors of the victims of the Second World War. November, express my deep participation, wish the injured a complete recovery, because it is ultimately about it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For a long time we have lived in Austria with a feeling of false security, that has paid four people with life. We have now clearly seen that the security of a Member State of the European Union concerns the security of all people in the European Union, and that is why we must ask ourselves this unpleasant question: Wouldn't this attack have been preventable? Once again, we see communication problems between the authorities, lack of training, lack of resources, financial resources, human resources. These weaknesses cost people lives, hurt people, endanger our social cohesion and democracy – and we must no longer allow these weaknesses. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They are also the result of a security device operated by Turquoise and Blue for years. An important currency in European and international cooperation in the fight against terrorism is confidence, which depends on the exchange of confidential information, and it has been disappearing since Turquoise-Blue. Austria is not in a position to link internal and external security, i.e. to link national cooperation and communication with cross-border European cooperation. Foreign authorities no longer take the Austrian Interior Minister seriously – and slowly, but surely we are cut off from the flow of information. Not later than since the Razzia in the BAT under Mr Kickl, there is no confidence in our intelligence service, and this is damaging to our Republic of Austria. At the same time, this government is taking care of information it has received from the European partner authorities. Consider the information about the tried-and-tested arms purchase in Slovakia. So what's to do? – In the fight against terrorism at national level, citizens need effective, reliable and fast-moving authorities. We need more Europe, more cooperation, more coordination at Community level, at bilateral and multilateral level. Following the attacks by Paris, Brussels and Berlin, the European Parliament has adopted a resolution, and it has lost nothing of an up-to-date nature, because the terrorist threat has not only increased in recent years, it has also changed rapidly, and I would like to point out that we in the European Union have achieved a great deal. The European rules on financial sources and money laundering have become more stringent in order to turn the terrorists to the tap. The entry/exit system shall record all entry and exit data of third-country nationals crossing the external borders of the Schengen area. The search database of the Schengen Information System has been expanded, Europol, the European Police Office, is constantly being strengthened and a dedicated terrorist register has been supporting the national judicial authorities since 2019 that criminals and terrorists, not only jihadists, but also members of right-wing and left-wing extremist groups, are really being punished. The prerequisite for a Europe as a common area of security, freedom and justice is here. These conditions are there, it does not fail to provide too few data or information. Instead of even more surveillance and reduction of citizens' rights, it is necessary to make reasonable use of existing instruments and information. Exciting surveillance fantasies and encryption bans do not solve the problems. They restrict all people in the context of a general package. Instead, there is a need for mutual trust, serious European cooperation – all that has not been achieved and threatened by German Chancellors Kurz and the governments he has so far led in populist terms. We do not need any more monitoring; what we need is for the Austrian authorities to work better with their European partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9480	Next speaker: Mr Christian Ries. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9504	Madam President. Dear Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! The title of the current European hour is not exactly what is called Breaking News, and I also have to say that from my point of view it is not quite correct. We could discuss at this point whether the far-reaching corona measures can be of success, but you chose the theme “No European Intelligence Information for BAT”, so let’s talk about it! If we look at the interim report of this Commission of Inquiry on the pans in the run-up to the attack in Vienna, we can already see that the title does not fit, because there was not a hint from abroad, but several of them. Again, for those who do not know the report, the Swiss and German authorities informed the BAT in July 2020: There is a meeting of Islamists with you in Vienna, please monitor this! ==References====External links== This meeting lasted full five days – i.e. time enough to define goals, develop strategies and organize fighting tools. Already the day after the departure of the Swiss and German guests, our defendant traveled to Slovakia to get ammunition for the AK-47 – the AK-47 is not any weapon, it is the weapon of Islamic terror – and of course we only know about it, since Slovak authorities have communicated it to the BAT. At this point, the third foreign intelligence service is already in play. Now one can go into philosophical-semantic discussions about it, but one cannot conclude that there was no intelligence information at European level in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's not just a duck, it's a whole duck stable that's being presented to us. It has also been promoted by the BAT Research Committee. I quote the former head of the BAT in his survey with truth: “It is unfair to claim that the BAT would have been excluded from the information flow of the intelligence services. [...] We're a member of the Bernese Club. This has not changed.” This also confirmed his deputy later, and German Chancellor Kurz also said that there is no evidence that under Herbert KicklIllegales happened. You can read all of this in the minutes of the Committee of Inquiry. The reasons why there seems to be nothing going together on the track are others, neither the house searches – and there were several of them – nor an international isolation. If you install staff of the ÖVP club without any training as a news manager, you must not be surprised if nothing goes together. If you place ÖVP-near administrative practitioners in sensitive areas, you can see that there is no basic understanding of the security of the intelligence service here. The political influence of the ÖVP on post crews – starting at the time under Strasser – has ensured that the personnel selection in the secret service environment is probably unique in the world. In addition, the security defects in the BAT: Virus programs from the Russian bar, no password security for sensitive data, IT employees with secondary jobs, programs without certifications, sensitive data that ball around at home on kitchen tables, and also home security was never on international standard. These are the real reasons why foreign services view the BAT with mixed feelings, and these are the reasons why the BAT does not play in the Champions League, but in the subclass of the intelligence services. Why this will probably remain this way for a longer time, we can take note of a stroke in yesterday’s “Kurier. ” It was written: ‘Secret BAT report: The ORF in the visor of the Corona liars’. Ladies and gentlemen! A secret BAT report has nothing to look for in daily newspapers! Boulevard news and intelligence services are two pairs of shoes. Those who cannot separate these terms are a mistake and should be urgently exchanged.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9567	Next speaker: Mr Michel Reimon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9589	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Member of the FPÖ has said it rightly that the BAT is playing in the European Underliga of Secret Services. And why is that so? – Because the other intelligence services do not have sufficient confidence. The formal contracts are respected what Austrian intelligence services need to get information, but they do not receive much more voluntarily. [[Abg. Belakovich: What are the Austrian secret services? What are you talking about?]] If you look around at European level, you can also understand why this is so: There was a search of the BAT, triggered by the Ministry of the Interior, there were reports of what is insecure. [[Abg. Belakovich: You start wrong!]] One wants to give them as little as possible and works with them little. Trust in the intelligence services, in the Austrian secret service, has been completely lost in recent years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schrangl.]] It will be the task of the Minister of the Interior to rebuild it in the next few years, and it will not be easy, for one must also fight against a lot of prejudices. You must not forget the political image of Austria in the past. Right in the time we're talking about, there's a Ibiza video in which half the Republic should be ruined. And the intelligence services that have been set up by this party should be given secret information? – You won’t do that What made it even worse is the storm on the Capitol in the USA. This, of course, gives rise to a new awareness of the threats to European democracies. I mean, let's say what it's like: We have two major threat scenarios: right-wing terrorism and Islamist terrorism. A BAT, which is expected to be subverted, which could somehow be difficult and which should not be entrusted with information on right-wing extreme terrorism, is excluded. This is the responsibility of the FPÖ. That is why we are getting less information about Islamist terror, and that is also the responsibility of the FPÖ. Now I ask myself one thing – Herbert Kickl sitts in this plenary session in the first row, and if only half a sentence comes to the subject of security somewhere, he roars through the area –: Where is the Minister of the Interior during the entire discussion on security, terrorism, his failure and danger? [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] I specifically asked the President if he was apologizing today and perhaps sick. He's hiding somewhere in the house and doesn't trust to go to the discussion about his responsibility. A minister can be quoted, I would be in favour of all of us calling on Mr. Ex-Innenminister – there is another speaker after me, you have 10 minutes –: Come here, step to the speaker's seat before the plenary and account for what you've done in the BAT and how you're endangering the Austrian Republic! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Mr. Ex-Innenminister, do you have the courage to step in front of the plenary and explain yourself, or are you a coward hiding here in the house? I'm asking you that now.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9670	Ladies and gentlemen, I have not understood you accurately now. I'll get the record. If it's what I've heard, it'll be an order call. - You're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9686	This is the subject. One thing I would like to comment on: The way in which the discussion was conducted is indeed the problem. [[Abg. Belakovich: You have already misbeginned the first sentence!]] I have now tried to point out the European dimension. It has a European dimension, and the whole discussion here is only used internally. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] Of course, this domestic abuse of this issue is precisely the reason why these data are not delivered. We should deal with this more seriously. We should also have a more serious debate here in the House. I would also like – I say quite honestly – that a current European hour is not used for such an internal policy debate, but that European policy is discussed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] I would really like to see a European social and labour market debate to continue, so to speak, with the social debate that we have had before. After all, we are in the quarter where we hope we can get out of this corona crisis and get started in the next place. The Portuguese Presidency is making a big social summit in May. It is about how Europe starts. I would really like the SPÖ to take advantage of this opportunity and hold a labour market debate. That is what we need at European level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9737	Ladies and gentlemen, I have another speech on business treatment. [[towards Abg. Schnedlitz, who lifts his hand and goes toward a microphone in the first row of seats]] Mr Scherak spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9770	Madam President. In the previous Presidential Conferences, in the last Presidential Conference, we also agreed that, due to the Corona situation, we are trying to stay in the hall, which, among other things, also leads to Members not having to be here in the hall, but to sit on the gallery or in the respective clubs. As the honourable Member has obviously not been passed on by the clubs, I would like to point out once again and also call on the respective clubs to pass on this. Madam President, you may also be able to repeat it once again so that we can all hear here that we do not draw attention to the fact that Members are not in the room because we have made it that way because of the situation.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9797	Mr Schnedlitz also spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9821	Madam President. I can only join the colleague. I really would like to point this out once again. If a Member here at the speaker's desk calls another Member a coward, if he does not speak here again, although it is not at all possible for Member Kickl to make a speech now, I would ask if first of all this abuse and second of all this distortion of the Rules of Procedure are taking place, that you intervene as President. I assume, however, that you will have the record brought and give this call for order in retrospect.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9846	Is there any further mention of the Rules of Procedure? - That's not the case. I would like to say first of all that, in Mr Reimon's speech, I believe I have heard an expression, but also, in my opinion, Discussion with Parliament's management was not quite certain; the situation with regard to acoustics with these plexiglass panes is somewhat more difficult. But there is, first of all, the possibility, Mr President, that you should call for an order, that all Members of the House have this right; and secondly, I have announced that I am going to have the minutes come, and I have announced: If this expression, in which I was not quite sure, has fallen, then it is orderly. Mr Scherak, it is right what you have done that I have now also had the extract of the President-in-Office's Protocol: We agreed at the Presidential Conference with all the groups of the House that, despite the Covid measures, we will be sitting in the semi-circle and will also carry out the votes here to ensure the maintenance of parliamentary activity, but we also noted that there is the possibility of pursuing the debate in other areas, including in the roof foyer, in the gallery and in other places in the house, and that statements relating to attendance are therefore not necessary and we reject them. I agree with Mr Scherak's remarks because they are in line with what we have agreed in the presidency. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Now there's a word for business treatment: Mr Leichtfried. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9891	Madam President. I would like to take the opportunity to confirm, in particular, what you, Madam President, and also Mr Scherak, have mentioned, from our point of view, that, in view of the situation, we should try to sit loose. I think that at least this works very well with us, as you can see from the Members on the top of the balcony. This should perhaps also serve as an explanation for television viewers, which is why I have actually spoken: I have received some emails why sometimes not many Members sit down here and are visible, and the reason is that we are trying to sit very loosely. This is how these images arise, which are sometimes sent from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9930	We are now continuing in the debate. Mr Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9957	Madam President. Minister of the Interior! Dear women and gentlemen Federal Ministers! High house! To close the debate as a last speaker is always a good way to summarize things. First of all, I would like to refer to the statements made by the ÖVP Members, in particular by Mr Mahrer, who for the time being told us how bad things were under Herbert Kicklwar. This is something that we have signed and have always worked up very intensively in the last GP. I recall the many requests for distrust tabled by Mr Steffi Krisper and others. But it has always been surprising that the ÖVP has forgotten that it was a coalition partner at the time, and that means that everything Herbert Kickldamal did has to do with it. I think you should be responsible for this. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In addition, it has been said that European cooperation does not work well and that information does not come to the BAT. This is certainly the one side of the medal, but the other, and from my point of view much more important, is that the BAT does not know how to deal with information and how to process this information. If one takes the terrorist attack, which has already been addressed by some – and I believe that it does not necessarily belong to an hour of Europe – then it is clear that the BAT has a perfect failure at all levels. The whole thing started when the Army News Office provided information to the BAT in February 2020 that the later suspect is known in a specific hazard circle. And what happens to this information at the BAT? - Nothing at all. This information remains simple in the BAT. Later, in the summer of 2020, the assassin took part in a jihadist meeting. That's where we had these international warnings. We had information from partner services from Germany and Switzerland that this is happening, with so-called central executives in jihadism. This dangerous terrorist cell was simply ignored, even there the BAT did not respond. It did not forward the information quickly to the LVT, nor did anything else with this information. In the LVT it remained lying, in the BAT it remained lying. Justice has never heard of it. Here you can make yourself and say: Well, we're just making a BAT reform, it's all on the way, it's just wrong, because nothing happens at all. This is exactly what we have experienced over the past few years. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] A short day after this jihadist meeting, which was known, the assassin travels to Slovakia to buy ammunition, ammunition for war material. The acquisition of war materials is for good reason prohibited for any private person under the Austrian Weapons Act in Austria and should also be prohibited for a jihadist, for a potential suspect who was at that time. That's exactly what the BAT was informed about. What happened to this information? - Nothing at all, she's been lying down again. The LVT in Vienna has in the meantime been concerned with the so-called risk analysis, so it has looked at whether this suspect is dangerous. That took all nine months – nine months in which nothing happened. In October, there was finally this risk analysis. And what's not in there? – All the things I mentioned earlier, all those data were not used for this analysis, and nothing has happened exactly, according to the motto: Service is our success. The procedures in the BAT and in our intelligence services are a mere disaster, we have seen this here, that has been addressed by the previous speakers. No matter where the information comes from, it's not going to do anything with it, and that's exactly the problem we have in the BAT. Now one can say that is due to the staff need, due to the lack of motivation of the employees so. This can be said, but one thing has to be held, and the Commission of Inquiry also notes that there are structural shortcomings. there, very large structural defects, between BVT, LVT, HNAA. All these services work far too little together, and that is already the responsibility of the Austrian People's Party, which always calls itself a security party. However, she has not done that over the last decades: she has provided security in this country – and this has been put on the table again today quite clearly as proof.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10038	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[12:08:09]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10060	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10188	In accordance with § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure prior to the entry into the agenda requested that the self-employed amendment 1221/A(E) tabled at the same time by Mr Schellhorn, colleagues on "New confidence and trust – better come out of the crisis" be dealt with urgently. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I shall call on this urgent request to deal with it at 3.10 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the reply to the question 3757/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10209	I also say that there is a desire, in accordance with § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, to hold a brief debate on the reply 3757/AB to Question 3745/J by honourable Members, colleagues and colleagues concerning “the activities of non-governmental organisations in the first half of 2020” by the Federal Minister for the Interior. Since this meeting called for a urgent request to be dealt with, the short debate will then take place following this one. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10231	In addition, I inform you that the Members of Parliament have requested Krainer, Fuchs and Double Farmers to report to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on Amendment 421/A a deadline until 23. ==References== The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. I would also like to say that Members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, Mr Krainer, Mr Prince and Mr Krisper, asked the Committee on Justice to report on the 1219/A(E) request concerning the abolition of the three-day reporting period in clamorous cases in the reporting order. To put on January. The motion for a resolution will also be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10258	The debate on points 6 and 7, 8 and 9, 10 and 11 and 12 to 14 of the agenda is proposed. I ask if there is any objection. - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10279	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 7 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP 137, SPÖ 95, FPÖ 77, Green 70 and NEOS 56 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club each 28 minutes; in addition, their speaking time shall be limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time set out. I would ask those Members who agree to this to give a sign on this point. – This is unanimously accepted. We are going into the agenda with this. I welcome the two Federal Ministers, Karoline Edtstadler and Susanne Raab, in our midst. [[12:11:58]] 1. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 1205/A by Mr Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, Mag. Agnes Sirkka Prammer, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Ministry Act 1986 (Federal Ministry Act Novelle 2021) (633 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10337	We come to item 1 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mrs Andrea Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10364	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This item on the agenda is about how the ministerial structure will be changed after the resignation of Minister Aschbacher. Now we can be of the opinion that those who set up the government should determine the structure in which they want to work. But since we all know – that is, in a sense, a sense of ambiguity – that structure and content are interdependent, it has a political-contental dimension. I would like to deal critically with this in four points. The first point relates to the fact that the competences for family and youth should now migrate to the previous Ministry of Women and Integration. Apart from the fact that we do not consider this move to be particularly happy, it is quite difficult, from our point of view, that family agendas and women’s agendas are simply brought together – almost reflexively – and this at a time when we had to observe before the crisis, that there is a clear backlash for women and that women’s policy is very much under the family-political perspective, this at a time when women – and this is emphasized everywhere – have to a large extent the burden of the crisis and are mainly affected by the consequences of the crisis. You would need a very strong lobby at that time, because such a change is the absolutely false signal and the absolutely wrong measure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] From our point of view, women would deserve a strong voice and an independent ministry, and this would be urgently needed. The second point relates to the fact that, from our point of view, the working and social sectors are closely related and that the division of social and labour is based on purely intra-coalitional shifts of power and division of power, but not on material links. We therefore call for the merger of these two social and labour sectors, for which a lot of content would speak. [[Abg. Loacker:... Minister of Health!]] On the third point, the shift of youth agendas from the Ministry of Labour: We think that especially in times of crisis, especially in times of rising unemployment, it would make sense to limit the youth agendas and the agendas of the Ministry of Labour. It is now very much about developing prospects for young people: both in education and in the labour market. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Fourth and final: We live in the 21st century. At the end of the century, ladies and gentlemen, and there is no need to free a man from making family policy – these agendas could certainly stay with a man! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For the four reasons mentioned above, we will not give our consent to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10419	Next speaker: Mr Wolfgang Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10440	Madam President. Dear ladies Federal Ministers! High house! We are living in one of the most challenging times since the Second World War, not only economically, but as a whole. Many people in this country see this crisis as one that causes the greatest cuts for them, both private and professional. It is therefore quite important to try to focus on the points that are really necessary in addressing the challenges. I would just like to mention one relevant figure for the Minister of Labour: In 2019, there were about 1,500 people in short work – in 2020, there were over 1 million people. In 2019, there were one or two persons in the AMS per country who were responsible for short work – in 2020 there are hundreds of employees who have to make applications and bills for the AMS. I therefore think it very important that the Minister of Labour will focus on this work in the future, because, Mrs Kuntzl: Work is for me the future, social affairs is present for me, and we must ensure that in the future we deal with the topic of work accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] [[Further call to the SPÖ.]] In the past 25 years, it has not been the case that work would have been its own place of business. The Ministry has now been given the task and position required at this time. In the next few years, the whole force must be spent on the subject of work, because after the health crisis, we have to get out of the economic crisis as quickly as possible. One of the important recipes for this is short-term work so that people can stay in employment so that they can get out of employment quickly - from which unemployment can quickly come back. [[Call to the SPÖ: “From employment” – that was a joy’s experience!]] I would like to say one more word about the fact that the agendas of youth and family are now moving to Susanne Raab, as my previous speaker has done. [[Call the SPÖ:Thank you! Thank you!]] Mrs Kuntzl! If I have read correctly, 87 percent of single parents are women – 87 percent have not only a personal concern, but above all also for their children! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... Women's policy!]] One of the most important points, therefore, is that one sees women's affairs not only on their own, but also on matters relating to children. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Please, then make a... finally!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore important to remember that family can be an anchor in the crisis for many, but on the other hand also a challenge. To meet this challenge, Susanne Raab will do her job as best she can. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Therefore, only more one sentence, also because you have presented it as so deviating: The fact that family and women are together is not only true now in this Federal Government, but we also find it in Salzburg, where a NEOS councillor is responsible for women and families, but not only in Salzburg, but also in Lower Austria – there you will say, not surprising, but I will tell you one more example: in Carinthia. In Carinthia, Mrs Kuntzl, it is a Social Democratic Councillor responsible for women and family together, and SPÖ has almost an absolute majority there. So it's all on its own. But there is a federal country that is quite different again, and that is Vienna. In Vienna you will not even find the word family once at the new coalition in the division of resorts. We are very, very happy to distinguish from that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10538	The preliminary stenographic protocol of the previous debate is now before me, and it is because I give Mr Michel Reimon a call for an order for the expression ‘Feigling’. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] We are now continuing in the debate. Mrs Selma Yildirim, you are speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10579	Madam President. High house! Ministers! Dear Seers! Member of Parliament Gerstl is the symbol of conservative women's and family policies, a prototype, I must say. [[Call the ÖVP: Good speech!]] He stands here and tells all serious that the designated expert can be involved in future topics. Do not women, family, and youth count on the topics of the future? Mr Gerstl, I am horrified! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] But that's classic. We can list each other examples of the place's responsibilities at which levels are mixed, but under the line comes out: Women's and family policies in ÖVP hands, which is basically quite, very bad, very bad. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Straster.]] Only that the Minister of Labour has just used a half-rate on women in his speech today, and that only to determine: Yes, they are affected by long-term unemployment! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, family policy, women's policy, youth policy is a direct labour market policy! You finally have to acknowledge that, otherwise we won't get on with it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] While you can name the risk of poverty for women that women are most affected by the crisis, you can name it, but you have no solutions. For you, it seems natural that women stay at home, do unpaid work: What are we supposed to do with family and women's policy?Unknown term type: "%s".? My esteem, Mrs Raab, is that you now have family and youth policy on your challenging tasks, such as integration and women's policy, but family and youth policy is just as important a cross-cutting matter, and I would have liked her to be removed from the designated labour market and economic experts. Finally, it takes measures to create compatibility – the real compatibility – between work and family. It finally needs more money for families. This with the Corona Family Hard Fund is as if the crisis would take only three months and would be over in three months. But we have been living in a crisis for eleven months, and an end is not foreseeable. Please finally create sustainable employment programmes specifically for this group of people: for women, for families that keep this country running!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10644	Next speaker: Mrs Edith Mühlberghuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10668	Madam President. Dear Federal Ministers on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister Raab, you are now taking over the agendas of the family and youth, and so you are the fifth Minister of Family within ten years. So on average we get a new family minister every two years. I don't want to blame you for that. It only shows the weakness of the chancellor, because the important competences of the family and youth are pushed around every two years like a playing ball. In an interview, Mrs. Federal Minister, you yourself have referred to yourself as someone “who always stands on the gas. ” I hope that you, as a family minister, will also show that you are getting up to the gas, because there is a lot of work waiting for you. In many families, a parent is unemployed due to the corona crisis or in short-time work, savings and reserves are used up in many cases, and therefore there must be the possibility of re-applying for 2021 and seeking support from the Corona Family Hard Fund. Payment must also be made more quickly. Mrs Minister, you know: There have been really big problems since the first lockdown, and the families have had to wait a long time until they get informed and until they have also paid out the money. These are financially weak families and, above all, single mothers who are often at risk of poverty. The corona crisis and the permanent lockdown are a huge psychological burden for families. Mrs. Federal Minister, think in the families: Parents who work in the home office, support their children in the home schooling tasks and then care for the little ones at home, often still in a small apartment, because a larger one is not sedentary! [[Abg. Smoking: That's why: Lock up the schools!]] There is no contact for children with equal ages, with friends, no common play, no way to exchange. All of this makes our children mentally ill. In addition to home schooling, social inequalities are created. Between children whose parents have better education, and children from unstable environments, the gap is getting bigger and bigger. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Smoking: That's why: Lock the schools!]] Family means a lot: Family means society, family means future and family also means education and school. Mrs Bundesminister, I ask you, no, I ask you: Convince the Federal Chancellor and finally lock up the schools! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If the Federal Chancellor does not listen to the Minister of Education Fäsmann, he may listen to you. I wish you all the best for your new task. Don't forget the families in this crisis and get on the gas! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10730	Next speaker: Mr Christian Drobits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10751	Madam President. Estimated Federal Ministers! High house! The Corona crisis is certainly a crisis that has created the biggest challenges for decades, perhaps for centuries for our health care, but also for the labour market. The Corona crisis is also a crisis that clearly shows that there are shortcomings in the system. These shortcomings in the system must be shown mercilessly. You can see this right now when you look at the crisis management in which you don't see the leading role of the federal government in the areas of coronamepel or vaccinations, but also when it comes to the tests. It is these shortcomings that become merciless in times of crisis such as the Corona crisis. Furthermore, it is also difficult to see the production of various goods – of drugs and other substances – no longer in Austria due to globalisation, but somewhere in Asia. I think the time is now ripe to say that it has to be shown mercilessly that it is important for all of us in the final effect to make the analysis, to draw up this list of shortcomings and to develop improvement strategies. This leads me to the Federal Ministry Act. I'm actually disappointed that what's going to happen in the construction of concrete fasciers, concrete cosmetics, as they're called. It is worked cosmeticly and it is tried to pass on certain topics to other ministries. We have a federal constitution law that is 100 years old. However, we still have the powers of then, and we are actually losing the opportunity to take account of these challenges of the new age and to change the federal constitution. This could be a way of keeping a secure stock of ministries, just as is foreseen in the Councils of the European Union, but at the same time one should also have the courage to take these new facts into account and to realize a new, modern system of competence with the countries. Mrs. Federal Minister Raab, I am convinced that you are working a lot right now. But how do you want to accommodate all these areas in a 24-hour day? – Good luck with it! I don't think one should happen. I do not want the children and young people who are now in your place, through the school closures, through the sharp increases in the number of diseases are the sufferers of the corona pandemic and, in turn, stay on the road. I also call on you today to make sure that children's and young people's rights are treated by you in the future and not remain an attachment somewhere. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Gerstl, Social Affairs is today and is present, you have said. However, social assistance is child and youth aid. For me, child and youth assistance is the future, for me children and young people are the future, and therefore, Mrs Minister, I take it At the word, please and suggest that you stand up for these children's rights and This area in your department continues to operate strongly. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10802	Next: Mrs Barbara Neßler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10827	Madam President. Estimated ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Mrs Raab! You say about yourself that you are a person who always stands on the gas. I am very confident that we will have good, intensive cooperation and will continue to do something in the important areas of family, children and youth. In this sense: I do not believe that an area is being played out against another area, but it is a matter of simply continuing an urgent improvement in every area. We've got a lot to do. On the one hand, we need to continue working intensively on this – we know – in order to eliminate the greatest hardships and to continue to support families in the crisis-loaded period as much as possible. On the other hand, we already have to look at the time after the Corona crisis. We hope, of course, that it will come sooner than later – I think we are looking forward to that. But I've already said it here: The Covid crisis is like a magnifying glass, which radically shows long-standing problems. For example, we know that childcare – a big topic – remains with women. It is the women who have had to do double and triple work, and still women – when it comes to the big topic of unpaid work, housework and so on, the so-called care work – come unsolicited, unsolicited to the handcushion. That is what we must do and that will be done in the sense of more just, in the sense of more modern models. However, it is clear that during the pandemic we have already put in place important measures and are still in crisis management mode. In the family sector, we have repeatedly increased and extended the hardness fund, and we have paid grants for family aid. The main topic of youth unemployment: We have put in place numerous measures to keep youth unemployment as low as possible, so that the figures forecast in the spring of 2020 do not reach this level. Of course, I do not want to hide and, of course, do not relativize that we still have to do much to ensure that our young people have an adequate, a good future perspective. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We're not just in the process of eliminating the biggest hardships. The Covid crisis lasts almost a year now, and unfortunately it's not over yet. But our fight against child poverty has only begun, the first steps have already been taken. For example, remember the child cost study commissioned, because the last survey based on the calculation of family benefits dates back to 1964! The risk of poverty is logically not only for the many young people, but above all for a group – that has already been addressed – these are the single-parents. Therefore, it is urgently necessary to close the maintenance gaps of single parents in order to get them out of the poverty trap. In one of the richest countries in the world, in Austria, it must be possible for our children to have an adequate future, regardless of the income of their parents. We know that every fifth child in Austria is at risk of poverty. We know that social mobility in Austria is very low. We know that there will not be a measure to resolve the problem, but we will have to set up a set of measures to reduce child poverty. Because precisely the economic perspective dominates and is repeatedly spoken of as economic measures: We will increasingly invest in young people because these measures have the highest economic profitability. It's a lot ahead, and I'm looking forward to getting a lot of improvements on the way for the families, for the many young people who have had to give up a lot. I'm confident we'll succeed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10878	Next speaker: Mr Michael Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10902	Madam President. Appreciate women ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take a brief look at the past, but after that I would also like to come to the present very quickly. In the past, we had the problem that, as a Member of Parliament, in a crisis that we have never known before, a family minister who, for whatever reason, did not understand these problems in terms of content, would have been a solution for many families quickly and uncomplicatedly. I would like to remind you that we had a hard family balance, where, if they sent incomplete applications, ten thousand families did not receive a response from the Ministry in order to deal with the other applications more efficiently. I can remind you that there has been a data leak, which means that you have received the confirmation you have received from another applicant if you have submitted an application, including a social security number and bank data. I should like to remind you that false payments and double payments have been made in the form of hardy compensation. I should also like to remind you that self-employed people continue to have only a flat-rate amount and not what employees receive. All of this has not really made us look very confidently into the future, so we now as NEOS – and I say this openly, Mrs Raab – are of course still skeptical that it succeeds better. However, we do not see as a problem that you now receive the family and youth sector in addition to your agendas. I have no picture – we have never worked together so far – whether it gets better or worse. I hope that there will be a clear improvement, so today we will also vote in favour of this proposal. But I would now like to come to the present, on the subject of the adjustment of hardness: At that time, an application for three months could be submitted. This has occurred, and from my point of view, these applications are usually processed relatively in a timely manner. But many new messages have now come to my mind. I don't get so many messages with: My application will not be processed, but: I have already made one request, I have also received the money, but my special financial difficulty not only lasts three months, but six or nine months! - We didn't find an answer to that. The news is also very distressing in person when you get the e-mail on the 20th of a month that the single parent in question simply has no more money to buy food for the children. This means that we are now sending the people who have come through everyday life before the crisis more or less to the soup kitchen. You just have to imagine that – and by the way, soup kitchens are not everywhere. This makes it clear that politics needs a new solution for the present. As NEOS, we have proposed an equalization of hardness 2.0, on which exactly those families that do not come through the winter and spring are given appropriate support. Unfortunately, Mrs Aschbacher did not take this up. However, I would also like to take up a second issue – because we have talked about numbers before. It is a problem that has nothing to do with the pandemic, but in principle is a matter. Every fourth child in Austria lives in a single educational household. 50 percent of these single-parent households are vulnerable – before the crisis 44 percent – and 94 percent of single-parent households are run by women. This is now at first sight a women's policy situation, but in fact it is a man's political situation because it is the problem in our society that the unpaid tasks and shared responsibility are not yet where they should be. It is not voluntarily 94 percent of single-parent households female. It is about the fact that all the family policy measures – and here we are very much focused on things that also affect the future – are still very much aimed at relinquishing responsibility to a person. We need a great deal, from family allowances, child care allowances, to child care incentives, in order to create more equality in families, even if they are separate. My appeal to you, Mrs Minister – and I would like to end with this: Find a political answer, really timely and immediate, for those families that have no money today and for whom there are no other pots to which they can access! Please work on the family image that Mr. Gerstl has and I did last in the 19th century. In the 19th century, in which ÖVP does not find a majority, you create a way that men and women can look equally into the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10954	Next, Mrs Elisabeth Pfurtscheller will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10975	Madam President. Dear women ministers! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators and above all also spectators on the screen! I think there is a little confusion in the face of the Minister's report, which Mr Kuntzl and Mr Yildirim played at the speaker's desk earlier. Mrs Kuntzl has four different new ministries in mind at all, and colleague Yildirim would also change a lot. However, they are not quite strict in their argument, because Mrs Kuntzl, for example, would like to have work and social affairs together, but Mrs Yildirim would like to have work, youth and women under one roof. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Yildirim.]] I would suggest, ladies, once again agree on something and then report to you again and tell us what you want! I would like to explain what we now want to decide. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There will be a new responsibility for Mrs. Raab – in addition to the responsibilities that existed before: First of all, it is the topic of women – and this is of course particularly important to me as a woman speaker – and secondly we have the topic of integration and as a third topic of family and youth. And yes, there will be overlaps, as in other ministries, such as the environment and transport, agriculture and tourism, the economy and digitization or Europe and the constitution. By the way, these are all ministries that are run by women, and there the reds have found no hair in the soup. There's no problem with that. That is why, when it comes to Mrs Raab, you are unolidarian, ladies and gentlemen. I would really ask you to drop down once to wish Mrs. Minister luck and great success and to pledge her support instead of always criticizing. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Anyone who met our Lady Minister last year knows that she is very consistent in implementing her objectives or those of the government programme. That is why there is no need for any doubt; such are not at all appropriate, ladies and gentlemen, at all. I am sure that the Minister will use the new possibilities for synergies between family and women if it makes sense. I am just as sure, however, that otherwise the two areas of women and family and youth will be strictly apart. I wish you good luck for this, and I wish you my support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11038	Mrs. Susanne Raab has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11060	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity I have not yet had in this context, and thank Christine Aschbacher for her work as a Federal Minister. I would also like to thank you very much for your cooperation. You can certainly imagine that there have been a lot of overlaps between the regions as they have been, work, family and youth, as well as my women and integration department, and therefore a close cooperation that has worked very well. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am really aware of the difficult times in which I take over these new department responsibilities for family and youth. The pandemic presents us all with huge challenges. It's a hard sample. In particular, it is a challenging time for families who currently have to vote a lot. I can assure you that we are doing everything and we have, of course, done everything as a federal government so far to create good conditions, to bring people in our country and also families through the pandemic as best they can through the crisis. I am pleased that I am now able to carry out this new task, since once again I can put in the turbo and use all my strength for the families and also for the youth in this country. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] A good family policy means for me to create the best conditions for the families so that families in their different facets, in their diverse forms of life, can be simple family. This is the task of politics. Children should be able to find protection and security, to grow up in protection and security. Mothers and fathers should decide, according to their own wishes, how they organize their family, how they want to create a career and a time with their family. However, families – and this is the task of politics and also my task – are to receive the necessary support they need in order to retain the freedoms they want. Freedom of choice is the key word, self-determination is the keyword. However, it is important that the framework conditions are created and improved. A wide range of childcare services For example, this is the basis. I would also like to be a minister for this. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] At the same time, I am also concerned that we know – and we have seen this as a consensus in all statements today – that youth is our future. The people, the young people, the young people in our country are motivated, committed and committed to action, and I would like to give these people prospects in a difficult time, in which there is often a lack of perspective, as we currently have in the corona pandemic. Mrs Kuntzl, yes, you are right to find, as a young person, a profession that enjoys a fun that you exercise with passion, in which you stick to its strengths, which is, of course, the core element of perspectives, of opportunities and for young people in Austria to make their way too. It is therefore very important to me that I cooperate closely with Minister of Labour Kocher. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In addition, of course, there is a need for a comprehensive strategic approach to youth policy. There is a good youth strategy, and it is important to me that we continue and develop it very, very consistently, as foreseen in the government programme. Ladies and gentlemen! As long as you agree, I will be able to take over the agendas for family and youth soon. I would like to address the criticism and clarify something unmistakably: Knowing women's policy and family policy in one hand is no contradiction, on the contrary, there are synergies that we can use. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I was allowed to talk to a lot of women in our country last year as a women's minister. Of course, for many women in our country the topics of child rearing, family and work balance, child care and parent participation are important. I would like to use the synergies to improve the framework conditions. But it is important to me that not only can this be women's issues, but it is also about strengthening the father's participation. I am concerned that partnership focuses on strengthening shared responsibility for children, for child rearing, for child care in the family – in the sense of strengthening fatherhood. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I am also concerned with mothers who have to raise their children alone, therefore often have to vote very much and are in particularly precarious situations. In order to make it quite clear once again: Women's policy is not equal to family policy or vice versa, but women's policy is equality policy at all levels. Self-determination and equal rights of women in all areas of life in our country is the goal – on the labour market, in the education sector or also in the field of life income to retirement, to name only three very central areas. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens]] Of course, you all know that the issue of violence is a very central concern, because the basis for a self-determined life is a fear-free and non-violent life. For me, therefore, the policy of protection against violence is a very central element of women's policy. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Finally, I would like to assure you: I will be there in the future with passion for the families and for the youth in this country, make me strong for them and, of course, be a strong voice for all women in our country, whether younger or older, no matter what life model they live in Austria. You can count on that. I am looking forward to the additional tasks as Minister for Family Affairs and Youth and to the valued cooperation with all of you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11184	Next speaker: Mr Hermann Brügl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11205	Madam President. Dear ministers! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! As we have already heard, the Federal Ministry Act Novelle also provides for the area of family and youth to move to the Federal Chancellery. This area also includes child and youth assistance and folk education. The fact that this area is moving to the Federal Chancellery is a very, very serious mistake, and I also tell you why. Children are our future. Mrs Minister, you have also stressed this: Children and youth are our future; and the youth age is that period of life that is characterized by identity, self-determination and socialization. It is the most important time, the most important phase in life. It is especially the time of learning. Especially the Federal Chancellor is the politician in our country who is robbing our children this time of learning and this time of socialization with their friends through his permanent school closures. Mrs. Federal Minister! With all due respect, but I do not trust you that you will prevail against the Federal Chancellor on this issue – unfortunately, I must highlight it, and unfortunately I must emphasize it so. The Federal Chancellor closed the schools without any basis, completely evidenceless against the will of his own Minister of Education and sent our children back into social isolation. The figures give a completely different picture, we have chosen this: ==References== In December the schools were opened again after they had been closed over weeks. At that time, the number of positives was about 50,000, today, where we are extending school closures, this figure is less than 20,000. ==References== There were about 4,000 people who had been hospitalized in Austria on December, when we took up the school business again, today this figure is less than 2,000. The same is true of intensive patients. At the time when the schools were opened, the number of intensive patients was about 700, today it is about half. In addition, we know very well that the schools are not the drivers of the infection, even if they like to be sent to government experts who claim the opposite. High house! School closures open up three areas of problem: On the one hand, learning deficits, educational residues, loss of education are created in the field of education. Our children are on their way, a second – I emphasize: a second! – to lose school year. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second problem is health: no movement, no sport, no club life, no socialization, no meeting with friends. And thirdly, these persistent school closures, which the Federal Chancellor decrees, meet in the midst of the hearts and souls of our children. Fears, reconciliation, lack of motivation and lost day structure are the consequences, and many chicken into a surreal computer world. The school closures ordered by the chancellor, Hohes Haus, draw our children, draw the students, draw up the youth scars and their souls. These scars, of course, later lead to lower living and working satisfaction, they lead to lower incomes, they lead to poorer health, to a higher risk of becoming unemployed, and they lead to more inequality. From our point of view, the Federal Chancellor is acting completely wrong. The damage he does with the school closures is irreparable. He deals with children completely empatheticly, even that must be said. He also deals empathically with them because he himself does not have children who are subject to education and therefore does not know their wishes, their needs and obviously does not want to know them at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mothers and fathers experience the suffering of their children in close proximity. They feel how desperate these are, and they feel the social isolation they must experience. They feel the missing contacts with their friends, they see and feel their fears. It is therefore wrong to transfer these agendas to the Federal Chancellery of the family and the youth. I therefore appeal again and again to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany: Mr. Federal Chancellor, bring our children back to life, give them a breath to breathe, conjure up a smile on their face again and open the schools! School is possible!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11269	The next item is Mrs Meri Disoski's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11290	Madam President. Women Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters! It has already been said a lot about the Federal Ministerial Law Novelle. It has been formulated criticism, among other things by Mr Kuntzl. I would like to pay tribute to your contribution, Mr Kuntzl. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I'm a little surprised. They come here, stand out here, and claim that there would be no women's policy in the Federal Government, that women's policy would go down in the Federal Government. I wonder, Are we in different parliaments, Mr Kuntzl? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kuntzl.]] I would like to remind you of four items that we implemented last year: After ten years of budgetary stagnation, including among SPÖ women's ministers, including under SPÖ-led federal governments, we increased the budget by 43 percent in the women's sector within one year. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Secondly, We have put in place measures to make the pension system more gender-friendly, including by increasing the compensation allowance and by introducing the early starter bonus. Thirdly, We have put a very clear emphasis on women's policy in the fight against women's also coronary unemployment with the labour market foundation, which is worth EUR 700 million. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kuntzl.]] Fourth: We have adopted a Europe-wide bill against hatred on the net. All this can be seen. This is exemplary, colleague Kuntzl! I do not know how this could go through the rags, how you could not find out these measures here in the House. Mr Yildirim, thank you for your contribution - I do not see it right now, I think she is not here right now - you have listed the women's political failures of the past governments, which your group has not only listened to for decades, but which your group has also mentioned as a chancellor party. Putting Yourself Out Now and demanding things is easy in the role of opposition, but what really matters is that what really matters is putting it into practice – and we are putting it into practice. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Mr Kuntzl, you spoke in the Constitutional Committee about a structural union of women and family agents, which your group would clearly reject. Please, be so good and get to the phone, call County Councillor Sara Schaar! – This is your SPÖ councillor in Carinthia. Do you know what agents they are responsible for? – Women, families and integration. Please take a look at the phone, Mr Kuntzl, and ask the party colleague what synergies she sees between these areas that she is responsible for! Ask Please, check it out! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We see synergies in these two areas, for example, when it comes to single parents, for example, when it comes to childcare; many others are obvious and do not need to be further implemented. I come to the end and I can contact you directly, Mrs. Federal Minister. We do not always agree on some issues, but where we agree that this is a clear need for differentiation between family policy and women's policy. There's one opinion, that's good. In this sense: There is a lot to be done for both the Minister for Women and the Minister for Family Affairs. I wish you all the best for this new task. We will support you in the same way as we have done in women's policy so far.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11387	The next speaker is Mr Yannick Shetty. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11412	Mr President. Dear women Federal ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, If friends ask me what was one of the most curious experiences in the last year, I would like to tell you about our arrival at the then youth minister Aschbacher. Collaborator Schnedlitz and colleague Holzleitner were also there – I do not know if you can remember. She has made a round – very friendly, you can imagine it well – and has asked us what our concerns are in the youth field. We have all expressed very detailed concerns. The Minister then filed briefing documents and gave a kind of ÖVP part-session speech. We ended the conversation after 30 minutes. Just as she talked to us about that, she has also passed politics on to the young people last year. In this respect, it is generally welcome that a change of competence is taking place here. Mrs. Federal Minister, I have read the cynical comment that in your ministry now with the new department distribution, i.e. women, integration, youth and families, all those topics that the ÖVP is wring. It would be very cynical now to say that, and I do not want to. I would perhaps like to make it a little more positive, Mrs Federal Minister: They are now responsible for the new topics that have been added, especially those which are of particular importance to society, precisely because they have such an identity-building effect. As a youth speaker, I would like to come to the point that I am dealing with today. It is children and young people who suffer massively from the harsh measures to reduce the crisis. They suffer physically, they suffer psychologically, in the social field, they lack the future perspective. Many of them cannot live through normal childhood and normal adulthood. Mrs. Federal Minister, as a youth minister, you must be the voice of young people. You must be ready to take on the role that Mrs Aschbacher has always denied. They must be the voice of the children who are at home in the lockdown, the incoming apprentices who do not find a teaching place, the students who have been in home schooling for almost a year – with interruptions. You don't just have to be her voice, you have to be her loudest lawyer, then if she needs you most. For example, if chancellors will briefly pass over the Minister of Education and all the experts to lock the children away and lock the schools. Then you must be the one who comes to the Minister of Education for the benefit of children and young people. They must put the interests of children and young people first, before the party and before chancellors. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] But there are also important youth issues outside the Corona crisis. I would just like to give you the key words – we have a personal exchange anyway next week –: There is a need for more places in children's psychiatry, more pediatricians, a redesign of the children's rights board – which is currently a toothless institution, especially a contempt for the participating experts – the closing observations of the UN Children's Rights Committee need to be implemented, the extra-school and club-based children's and youth work urgently needs to be upgraded; the clubs report that they can only remove fires for a long time and can no longer take care of the real problems. But these are just a few topics. Please do not see any more youth policy as has been the case so far, just as beewagerl other issues that are simply dragged away! Today, we agree with this amendment to the Federal Ministerial Act, which leads to a resort enlargement for you. I have the hope that you will do better than your predecessor, and wish you all the best for this task.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11463	The next speaker was Mrs Irene Neumann-Hartberger. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11487	Mr President. Appreciate women ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I have full confidence in Federal Minister Kocher and his team that the major labour market problems can be solved as positively as possible with the social partners and companies. The Minister of Labour should be able to concentrate on this area alone with the Department of Labour, for which I fully understand. I would like to highlight a small area which this BMG-Novelle brings with it and which has not yet been addressed. Up to now, the responsibilities for agricultural and forestry vocational training as a skilled worker and master in the BMAFJ were the responsibility. The agricultural schools, on the other hand, are already subject to the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Regions and Tourism and the competences of the respective Länder. Although it is certainly not everybody aware, agriculture and forestry in all its areas offers 15 jobs for workers. The range of training ranges from vocational school or teaching with skilled and master training, to higher schools, to university education. Apprenticeship training in this novelle takes place in a practical way in the company, combined with technical training in the vocational school – both for young people and in adult education in the second course of education. By this dual training system can be responded directly and quickly to the needs of agriculture and forestry. However, we note that for years, the number of persons trained through vocational schools and higher schools has increased dramatically and training by teaching plays only a minor role – whereas in the second course of education, in adult education, the numbers are rising again. The pooling of synergies, expertise and competence certainly creates an added value for farms and trainees. It is therefore only appropriate to establish all the responsibilities of agricultural and forestry education and training in only one place, the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Regions and Tourism. I therefore support this amendment to the Federal Ministerial Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11527	Mr Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11551	Mr President. I have now spoken a second time, because I do not want Mrs Yildirim to turn my word around in her mouth. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Kuntzl has said that it would be important for her to have work and social affairs in a place of business. I have kept this – and we have kept a different access to society – apart, because work is the future, because it is about the welfare of people in the future, and social security is in an emergency situation in which one is in. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] This has nothing to do with the second point I made after that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross.]] I tell you this as someone who has failed himself in a marriage and knows – my first daughter has grown up with her single mother – how difficult this is: None of us should take our mouths full and say that it is quite exactly how you personally – and with children – deal with such a situation. Don't throw the first stone!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11596	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Before entering the voting process, I ask: Do the clubs want a break? – That is not the case either. We shall therefore vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 633 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also the majority, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. [[13:10:02]] 2. Point Report of the Equal Treatment Committee on the Equal Treatment Report for the Private Economy 2018 and 2019, presented by the Federal Minister for Women and Integration (III-207/589 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11654	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I am speaking now of Dipl.-Kffr. Elisabeth Pfurtscheller. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11681	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators in front of the screens! We will discuss under this agenda the report on equal treatment for the private sector from 2018 and 2019. This report consists of two parts: On the one hand, it is about the work of the Equal Treatment Commission and, on the other, about the work of the Equal Treatment Procuratorship. In the present period, 242 new applications were submitted to the Commission, and the solicitorship was requested from 4 017 people during this period. Two thirds of these questions came from women. So if anyone else doubts that there are women in the world of work more difficult, he's got the evidence here. On the one hand, it is about sexual harassment and, on the other hand, also about discrimination in upcoming career steps. In this context, from this point of view, I really want to call on all those who feel disadvantaged who believe that they have a reason to be consulted, which may also be sexually harassed, to take advantage of the services of the equal treatment prosecution. There is a homepage, there you will find all the information. The equal treatment attorneyship also offers consultations in the federal states and thus has almost a unique feature in international comparison; such a feature exists only in very few states. In addition to the processing of applications, the equal treatment attorneyship also offers workshops and information for companies, for managers, for works councils and so on. This makes an important contribution to raising awareness and raising awareness in the field of equal treatment. In its report, the Court of Justice also wishes to increase resources. In our government programme, we have stated that we want to strengthen the equal treatment attorneyship and create further down-to-earth offers for anti-discrimination measures. We will work on this in the next few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11718	Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11743	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Only two days ago, more than 240 women met to a symposium in appreciation of and in memory of Barbara Prammer and discussed very intensively the Care Crisis, the Crisis of Worry. Actually, during this day in the individual groups, everyone agreed that women – women! – vote in favour of this crisis. Mrs. Minister, you just said: Our families are voting this crisis, and the word women has not come to your lips. I don't know what those who are watching now think – those who may have discussed yesterday, or single mothers who may now be in front of the TV or computer, if you've heard them, Mrs. Minister. [[Abg. Firewinner:... family or how?- Oh, my God!]] It is, I believe, not reasonable that we are not aware of this. The multiple burden of women is not just addressed here, but the words – the many words you have found today – must follow actions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The equal treatment lawyers and the members of the Equal Treatment Commission work with affected women, sometimes also with men, on the subject of discrimination, especially in the working world, but also partly outside the working world. These practitioners are the ones who belong here and are to be thanked to them. I would like to thank Mag.a Sandra Konstatzky in the Bar Association and Dr.in Eva Matt in the Commission, as well as all its members who participate, for their work. [[I would like to congratulate the SPÖ and the Deputies of Disoski and Brandstötter.]] In the period of reporting 2018/19, more than 4,000 requests, requests, deliberations were made in the GAW alone, the equal treatment attorney’s office. When we were on the 2nd. The last meeting of the Equal Treatment Committee on December, Sandra Constatzky said that the questions did not decrease, but that they were the same as before in the Covid crisis. Mrs Minister, if you would give me your attention briefly – I think that would be important, because there are demands of the equal treatment prosecution, which are central. [[in the direction of Federal Minister Raab, with Abg. Smodics-Neumann speaks]] [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl]] On the one hand, there should be a level of protection for all in Austria. In part, the federal states have better anti-discrimination laws than the federal government. This would be a task for you – this was already taken between the ministers of dog peat and Middle Lehner, but the ÖVP club has then made a retreat – as it concerns discrimination in access to goods and services, especially for same-sex couples. That's the one thing that's heard and that we're going to call again and again. The other is that the law is divided into 21 individual laws. So it has long been a matter of thinking about how we can perhaps put these individual laws into a single right of complaint, into a single law. There is much more, Mrs. Minister, what we all heard from the lawyers in December. We are more than willing to deal with you together with the implementation of the open demands and thus drive the strengthening of these institutions precisely in times like these. We're ready, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11810	Mrs Rosa Ecker spoke. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11832	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the hall and at home! Discrimination does not result from force majeure. Each person and facility shall contribute to this. – This is what Katharina Raffl, the head of the Regional Office of the Equal Treatment Procuratorship for Salzburg, Tirol and Vorarlberg, says. For all who do not know: There are five. Regional offices to which one can contact, which are available as a starting and clearing point in order to combat discrimination and promote equality. We've already heard: According to the present report, there are two thirds of women who address the equal treatment attorneyship, and for the most part – 78 percent – they complain of discrimination at work. Most cases came from Vienna and Styria. Still – unfortunately still – the most frequently reported cases concern discrimination in the working world due to sexual harassment and problematic working conditions. 52 per cent complain of discrimination on the basis of sex, and this again affects two thirds of women: on the one hand, in connection with the level of pay and salary, where the call for pay transparency is not heard, and on the other hand, mothers becoming mothers. It is still true that when women announce at work that they are pregnant, they are happy, at the same time they find that their working conditions are getting worse. – It can't be, it can't be! This systematic discrimination against women who become mothers and are mothers must not be allowed to please us. It is also very thoughtful that every seventh person who turns to the equal treatment prosecution is over 50 years old and complains about the age discrimination of his person. For women this is once again worse, because women are often considered too old for a job, for a job, although they are not even 50. That's where the question arises: What are all the praises on older workers, on their great potential, their experience, their loyalty, their knowledge? – These are lip recognitions instead of sustainable personnel policy. There is age discrimination every day, every day, including access to services and goods. Pensioners often don't receive credit cards anymore, they often don't even have to cross their account in the short term. A special Gustopückerl can be found on page 69 in the report: A woman with three children gets a lower credit because she only lives in a life partnership and is not married. So a life partnership as a background for a loan is not enough. For the most part, the elderly people are addressed to the equal treatment attorney's office – we know the analogy also from the public prosecutor's office, where it is the same – perhaps because the equal treatment attorneyship is not present in social media. The financial resources required for public work and staff resources would certainly be well-appointed. I would particularly like to stress the commitment and participation in the EU project Parents at Work, which concerns agreement issues. Agreement issues will become even more important – especially in the Corona era, in which it is very difficult for mothers and fathers to reconcile work and family anyway. Homeschooling and Home Office drive the load even more upward. It is also to be feared that a new phenomenon of discrimination will occur in the coming years: Coronamatura, corona school, corona teaching degree. This will accompany the young people, and I fear it will mean stigma. That is why my request to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and also to you, Mrs Federal Minister, which you are now taking over the agendas of the youth: Make it possible to teach quality in schools; please open the schools again for all students and teachers!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11887	Mrs Mag.a Meri Disoski is speaking on the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11916	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! With the Equal Treatment Commission and the Equal Treatment Procuratorship in Austria, we have two institutions with very great expertise in the field of equal treatment in Austria. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to say a great thank you to all those who work in these institutions: Thank you for your great commitment, thank you for your important work! [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as of SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] If we are now discussing the report on equal treatment for the private sector, I am clearly focusing on gender inequality as a woman speaker in my group. The present equal treatment report shows that women in particular address the equal treatment prosecution. Cases were prominent in the world of work. These were a total of 85 percent, with women at all stages of their professional career who have applied to the equal treatment attorneyship. The report reports that sexual harassment has been reported 468 times at work, and the issue of gender pricing, i.e. gender pricing, has become increasingly visible. That is why I am pleased that at the end of last year we have jointly abolished a form of gender pricing, namely the so-called Tampontax. Since 1.1.2021, the turnover tax for menstrual products is 10 percent and not 20 percent anymore. That was a long overdue step. It's good that we put him together. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The report on equal treatment for the private sector shows that, in terms of equal treatment or, in fact, the fight against inequality, we still have a very wide way ahead of us; and the corona pandemic has also shown us last year with full weight, which structural inequalities exist for women in everyday life in Austria. Women are far more often affected than men of unemployment. We are increasingly taking care of unpaid care. We meet the need to care for children at home while at the same time being in the home office, and much more. In particular, the crisis has hit the single-parents – we have already talked about it several times today – and it is therefore clear that further measures must be taken, above all, to support the single-parents. Although we, ladies and gentlemen, have a very comprehensive law on equality in Austria, structural inequalities still shape and dominate the everyday life of women in our country in 2021, and we need to change that. This brings me back to the equal treatment report: They remember that 85 percent of the cases reported concern the world of work. This is often the issue of uneven payment. We all know that women all over the world deserve less than men because they are women. In Austria, women earn much less than men, by 19.3 percent. In European comparison, we therefore rank on the lowest ranks, behind countries such as Bulgaria, Romania, Poland and Slovakia – and that is embarrassing, we must change that. What does it need from my point of view to be the next step? – measures as we already know them from Denmark, for example! A law was introduced there in 2007, whereby companies were obliged to disclose wages. Already after a year, the gender paygap in affected companies has been reduced by more than 7 percent. In this direction, it must also be with us. Quite frankly: We must no longer take initiatives for wage transparency from the Chamber of Commerce, by companies or by anyone else – quite simply because women deserve fairness.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11974	The next speaker is Mrs Henrike Brandstötter. - Please, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11998	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear feminists and all who still want to be! Do you know Frankenstein's grandmother? – Under Frankenstein’s grandmother, you can imagine quite a lot: a witch who is conducting experiments on humans in the dark basement, or a researcher who is working on the future and the salvation of the planet. If I tell you now that Frankenstein's grandmother was one of the founders of feminism in Europe, some of you probably think: I, creepy! – clearly – others may think: Wow, an educated, intellectual woman who had been a concern almost 250 years ago to stand up for the rights of women! With Frankenstein’s grandmother I mean Mary Woolstonecraft, the mother of Mary Shelley, the later author of “Frankenstein”. In 1792 she published the essay “A Invention of the Rights of Woman”, i.e. a justification for the rights of women. In it she was vehement for the rights of women, and Mary Wollstonecraft also had to defend herself against more or less funny reproach at that time. No, women do not want to grow beards; nor do they want to be equal to men in robbery, rudeness or other bad qualities, but they want the same educational opportunities, the same professional opportunities and the same opportunities to live their own lives without having to justify themselves. I had to think of this essay when the report of the Court of Justice was presented in committee. Why? – The report shows very clearly that equal treatment is still a spotter in the legal landscape. Here a little was repaired, something was added there, as a patch glued on it. It is noted everywhere that the idea that discrimination is not so good is still a concept that must be re-explained every time – and this is reflected in a very colorful bouquet of regulations. Sexual harassment at work lasts after three years, gender-related harassment, on the other hand, after just one year; racist and homophobic discrimination is quite uneven even after just a year of snow from yesterday – and this creates quite uneven conditions for people who want to defend themselves. Another point: Discrimination is also changing. Monitoring new discrimination phenomena is one of the key tasks of the equal treatment prosecution. This is how we are still today, like Mary Woolstonecraft, who had to explain that women do not want to be men anyway, even though it has long been about quite different topics. The budget for the tasks of the Court of Justice is largely under-dated. That has already been mentioned today. An adjustment of the budget has been planned for a long time, but has not yet been implemented. On both points, the budget adjustment and the harmonisation of the limitation periods, my requests are on the table, and I hope that we will soon come to a decision there.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12046	Mrs Mag.a Dr.in Susanne Raab has now been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12068	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by thanking the members of the Committee on Equal Opportunities, in which we really have discussed this report in depth, for the cooperation and for the ideas we have exchanged there. I would also like to refer once again to the report and mention the facts as a minister who is responsible for the equal treatment prosecution and for the equal treatment commission. The aim of the report is to present the status quo regarding the way to a non-discrimination-free working world – and this is another way that the report shows us. The report informs about the implementation of the equal treatment law, the equal treatment prosecution, the equal treatment commission. I am just glad that this important topic has found its way to your plenary today. The report shows us that, in principle, we have already taken steps in the period under review – that is good! – but he also shows us that we still have a lot to do. During the period under review, the Court of Justice advised and supported 4 017 persons in matters of discrimination. Two thirds of these questions have been submitted by women, and we have heard this more often now. It also shows us the importance of women's policy in the fight against discrimination and sexism in the world of work. It is clearly positive to assess that both the equal treatment prosecution and the equal treatment commission have been able to increase their awareness in recent years and that the procedures have been much more effective and are much shorter. This is very important in the sense of the legal certainty of those concerned and ensures that one gets clarity in relation to his questions. I believe that this is a way that we must continue, including to strengthen these important institutions. The Equal Treatment Commission and the Court of Justice have set up preparatory meetings, they have established new file procedures, they have held committees in advance of the meetings. I would very much like to thank all those employees there who work so hard to make legal protection and access to appeal even more effective. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Scherak.]] As has been said, the report shows us the great need for action at different levels. Many examples have already been mentioned, which are important in this way. He shows us that it does not need a single measure, but a very broad strategic approach and a set of measures to combat discrimination. In order for us to be able to establish equal opportunities and opportunities for women in the working world – in order to address only the very important issue of income justice that we need to work on – we need to play a very strong role in the labour market in all sectors, the federal government, the countries, but also, of course, in civil society. I am of course also pleased that I have a very great work base with Minister of Labour Kocher to continue to work on this subject area. I am also looking forward to working with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12114	The word is now known as Mag. Romana Deckenbacher. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12143	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Dear Seers! Every two years, the equal treatment report will be presented to us, which will include, among other things, the compliance with equal treatment laws. The competent Commission and the solicitorship are great institutions in which experts are committed to a non-discrimination society, thereby also doing a tremendously important work. Over 4,000 times, the equal treatment attorneyship has advised, legally supported and/or also informed people on matters of discrimination – thanks also to me. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] This report covers many areas. Allow me to just look at a few of them! The contributions from the interest groups have been made to the fact that despite the ban and the related sanctions, sexual and gender harassment in Austria is still very widespread. More than half of the workers are experiencing sexual harassment at work. 38 percent of the female workers were confronted with arrears and 12 percent suffered physical assaults. In such cases, preventive and awareness-raising work is extremely important. It is therefore urgently necessary to destabilise the issue of sexual harassment through targeted public relations. [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens.]] At the workplace, employers have a very special responsibility. In case of need, the equal treatment prosecution also offers awareness-raising and training measures to deal with incidents related to sexual harassment. However, the equal treatment report also points out that the women's budget needs to be increased in order to increase offers, particularly in the area of women's and girls' counselling and in the field of violence protection. Mrs. Federal Minister Raab has already mentioned this today, violence policy is an important element of women's policy for her. Much has already happened in this context: 177 projects were supported and supported by the women's resort alone. In 90 percent of the districts, there are women's and girls' advisory services. There are women's guides, anti-violence projects and much more. Once again, I would like to point out that Mrs Federal Minister Raab has succeeded in achieving an increase in the women's budget. In 2021, this will amount to 14.6 million euros. And yes, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, this is the biggest increase in the women's budget since 2010. [[As a result of this, it was not possible to find a solution to this problem. Disoski.]] The women's budget has been increased by almost 43 percent since the start of our wife's office. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on a good path, but of course there is still a lot to do. I would also like to make it quite clear here: Discrimination, in whatever form, has no place in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12202	Mrs Sabine Schatz is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12226	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! But above all, Mrs. Dr.in Matt and dear Mrs Mag.a Constatzky! I would like to thank you at this point for this detailed report and, above all, for your important work, which brings particular challenges especially in these times. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] As a result of the corona, economic and labour market crisis, inequality is increasing due to gender, origin or age. For example, in the present equal treatment report, the Federal Labour Chamber already points out that there has been more and more disadvantages of pregnant women. Pregnant women were forced to cancel or to resolve the service. The corona crisis was also used, as the Chamber of Labour noted, to push older workers out of their jobs. People who are at risk of discrimination are potentially particularly affected in times of crisis. This was also pointed out by the Court of Justice at the beginning of the Corona crisis. It is therefore expected that the equal treatment prosecution will have to become more active in order to combat inequality. That is why it is also so important to us that the request for the increase of the staff of the equal treatment prosecution office decided here in the High House in September 2019 will finally be implemented. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have tabled a request for this. Unfortunately, it has been postponed in the last equal treatment committee. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to deal with inequality, we also need the necessary staff to do so. Please give yourself a back and become active in this regard! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In general, it must be noted that women and in particular single parents are among the great losers of this corona crisis. We've heard that many times today. Considering, for example, the increase in unemployment since the beginning of the initial restrictions in March, it can be observed that women account for 85 percent of the so-called corona unemployed. There is an urgent need for a labour market package for women. We need a feminist economic package for women to finally counter it. Let me say one more thing: The closure of schools means, in particular, women to care for childcare and home schooling. However, I would like to say quite clearly: At the same time, to take care of home office and distance learning, ladies and gentlemen, just doesn't matter. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, we expect you to take a loud stand on the part of women and to work for more money for a feminist economic package and, above all, for a labour market package for women. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12298	Mrs Mag.a Faika El-Nagashi is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12323	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fight against racism and discrimination is also a fight for social rights and social security. The equal treatment attorneyship, which now celebrates its 30th anniversary, protects its work from discrimination and enforces the right to equal treatment and equality for all. At this point, I sincerely thank all the members of the Court of Justice and also the Equal Treatment Commission for their daily commitment and also for the work that has been included in this report. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] ==References== January, the great civil rightsist Martin Luther King would have been 92 years old. He always pointed out the importance of thinking and leading social struggles together. The two forces with the strongest dynamics and the greatest cohesion are the workers' and workers' movement and the black freedom movement. In this sense, the facts of the equal treatment report, as well as studies that analyse labour market participation, social membership, gender, origin and religion together, speak a clear language: Most discriminations take place in the workplace, and most often people have resorted to equal treatment for discrimination on the grounds of sex. In the field of religion, three quarters of the questions concerned discrimination for Muslim religion, 73 percent of them in the world of work. These complaints show the extent of anti-Muslim racism, which is primarily directed against Muslim women with a headcloth. [[Abg. Matznetter:... you need your coalition partner...!]] However, Mr President, it goes far beyond the far too little shown individual cases. Migrants and women are systematically discriminated against on the labour market. People in Austria without Austrian citizenship are paying almost 2 billion euros more into the social system than they can find out – this was calculated in a study by the Social Ministry together with the European Centre for Welfare Policy and Social Research a few years ago. In 2015, people in Austria without Austrian citizenship earned an average of 530 euros less than their Austrian colleagues, and women in turn earned 20 percent less than men. In the meantime – and this has also been the case with my colleague Dearness – this situation has become much worse. The scientist Judith Kohlenberger of the University of Economics Vienna describes a more than double decrease in the employment rate among foreign citizens compared to that of Austrians. Political struggles for basic and human rights must be linked to social struggles. An upgrade and an extension of the equal treatment prosecution is an important contribution to this, and that is why we also support Greens' demands, as they have already been mentioned: after an extension of discrimination protection, the so-called levelling-up, after a reduction in the fragmentation of the right of equal treatment in Austria, by complainants' rights, but also by more budget and more staff. Political struggles for basic and human rights must be linked to social struggles. This concerns the areas of digitization of work, globalised and precarious working conditions, platform-mediated service work, system maintenance through harvest and warehouse workers, as well as employees in trade, hospitals and old-age care. It needs a common understanding of the change for social rights and social security and against racism and discrimination. Especially now, in times when Coronaleugner and neo-Nazis are on the road – also with Members of this House – especially when their brothers are storming the Capitol, the Parliament, in spirit in the USA, these alliances and these alliances are needed to think together, because that is the reality of life of many people, the 99 percent, and that is what we really need for a change of conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12367	Mr Yannick Shetty has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12392	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The equal treatment report addresses many of the issues we have to deal with in Austria, and many have already been mentioned. However, I would also like to address a very worrying development that happens right on our doorstep and that no one seems to care about. After Orbán has risen his absolute power in Hungary in the last decades, he is now in the process of returning fundamental and human rights. What happens in Hungary? – With the votes of the majority of governments, for example, the Hungarian Parliament recently approved a constitutional novel that further limits the rights of sexual minorities and, in the constitutional sphere, excludes the adoption of a child by couples of equal sex. This Constitutional Supplement lays down that the gender of a child is defined at birth and is considered unchangeable. We know there are more intersexual births than twin births. What does such a regulation have to mean for these many people involved? It is a law with which one intends to prohibit teaching content in schools and kindergartens that are non-concessional or that constitute sexual minorities in a positive way. Quote: “Hungary protects the right of children to their sexual identity obtained at birth and guarantees an education according to the order of values on which the constitutional identity and Christian culture of Hungary are based.” - That's what it says. I know that some of them would like to have that in Austria too, but in Hungary this is already a reality, and we have to stand up to it. There are already the first LGBT-free zones in Hungary as well as in Poland. What does Austria do? What do we do? What does the turquoise-green government do? - We're watching. We are silent, we are silent – so continue what we can so well, just as in the case of Moria and Kara Tepe, also in this case. Viktor Orbán is surfing the corona wave, and it works because we all fall on it. When the last time someone has addressed Orbán's dealings with minorities, the ÖVP has come up with a call to intervene, whether we have any more important problems at this time. What do we say, though, when we are defeated in a few months' time by the corona pandemic, but in the meantime the authoritarians in Europe are stunned? That is why we make the following very important request, as I think, and I would like him to agree: [[Quoted print version removed]] Dear Members of the Federal Government, please raise your voice against the carcrats and for our fellow citizens in Hungary! Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[13:48]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12510	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, it is properly put in place and is therefore also under negotiation. Mag.a Maria Smodics-Neumann is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12537	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! I can congratulate both rulers on their new tasks and wish them a happy touch, good decisions and great success. – Thank you for taking over these tasks too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What is very important to me in connection with the report on equal treatment, I would like to make a brief statement. A sentence on Mrs Heinisch-Hosek: You mentioned earlier that at the last event, the Minister of State did not mention the women. Now I have been in the Equal Treatment Committee for a few days, but you have of course had considerable experience for me, also as a minister, but I think if we follow it, we can already find that, in many situations, the Federal Minister has repeatedly responded to the special performance that women have achieved in this crisis. I believe that it is also a good thing for her to talk about families in the field of family policy. - I just wanted to make this clear. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Although the EU directive on equal treatment under the Austrian legislation is sufficiently fulfilled – even a little overcrowded – it always happens that one or another has not yet arrived. Thank God we have given advice on these matters to those who deal with them. I believe that this is very, very important, because before we bind up laws, it would be, I think, much more, much more important to think about how we deal with each other, because there, where tolerance stops, discrimination begins. Tolerance is called Also, not only to let one's own opinion apply, but also to accept those of others, and above all: It might well be that there is a discriminating situation for others where, under the title of equal treatment, one creates privileges for one person. In this context, legislation is really required to be treated equally. I don't think there's anything more difficult to deal with than people. We are all required, we can live it – I think we can live it right here in 183 – and if it still has to be poured into a law, it can still be done. I believe, however, that with a reasonable and respectful relationship with one another, regardless of gender, origin, belief in the world and religion, we are moving much further than with strengthened laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12589	Mr Philip Kucher came to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12613	Mr President, I do not want to correct you, but the advertisement is 2:51 minutes. I have not yet started to talk, and the speaking time is already well advanced.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12628	I have already stopped them again and I will start them in 9 seconds, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12644	Thank you for your support, Mr President. Estimated government members! I must admit that, after the speech of the Minister for Women, I am very unscrupulous and I may ask all my colleagues to support it. In her speech, the Minister said: The report shows that we have already taken steps. That's good, but it's still a lot to do. – So: We've already taken steps. That's good, but it's still a lot to do. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a single report in Parliament that would not fit in with this description, that of the Minister for Women's Battle? [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Is there a single subject field that would not be covered with it? Mr President, in the agricultural sector, there is the Green Report, which could fit. There are, I think, hardly any reports that we could discuss that would not be appropriate, and this broad access, in which you mean anything anyway, is, as I believe, symptomatically also for the policy of Mrs Raab's Minister. I didn't want to be quick, but you've been a member of the Federal Government for a year now, and the criticism goes in the following direction: Speaking across the parties – we often discuss content – we have colleagues in all parties, with whom one considers otherwise, but the basic respect is there because one says that a fire is burning in these people who want to change something, they are in politics because they want to change something. But if we all think back to each other, someone of you regarding Susanne Raab will be a single topic, a single topic in the one year term of the minister's term of office, in which the Having felt, Minister Raab says something because it serves the matter and not her herself, some topic, one thing that you have the feeling of, she also speaks to unpopular things, she fights for women in this country, she does anything in the area of integration, because it is good for people and not only good for the minister? – [[Abg. Berlakovich: Doubling popular promotion, for example! The doubling of the community promotion in Carinthia is important!]] This style of politics hurts me so much because there are so many people in Austria who would need them. She is still responsible for youth and family. Now you can say that much won't happen. But the worst is that she would be responsible for the young girls and boys who are now sitting in school, for tens of thousands of children who do not have a laptop, where the government is watching and not fighting for them. This is the policy of la Raab, which we unfortunately know enough. Mr Shetty has now given a very strong speech to Hungary, but do you really feel that the Minister is interested when the freedom of the press is restricted in a neighbouring country when it is being fought against minorities? [[towards Abg. Shetty]] Do you really feel that she'd get up and say: Mr Orbán, I say that is not how it works, not because it benefits her, but because it is right? – In all the debates we have, you will never hear from this minister what is right, what is right for people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] This is politics à la Raab. We can all make the sample: If the survey fits, she is the first one to join, and if she does not benefit from anything politically and personally, then Minister Raab is silent. Unfortunately, this is the access I have to say: I have full respect for all colleagues from all parties, in whom we feel different, but the feeling is that we are fighting for the right thing, but that – I am sorry, Mrs Minister – is a political style that I almost find tragic. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: Go!]] That's your lifetime! They are sitting there as a minister and could design and produce something in this country. Please also have the courage and use the opportunity to intervene for women, young people, families in Austria! But if you always do what sounds good, it really is Your commitment hurts. Do you have the courage to leave this message control, leave the surveys aside, and think for yourself why you went into politics? Why? What do you want to change? – Always to do what is useful to you personally and what the turquoise troop somehow benefits you, that can't be access! For this, many people in Austria are going to be too bad. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: Doubling the promotion of the ethnic groups! Doubling the promotion of groups!]] So I'm really asking: If we do not talk about any reports in general, we are fighting for the people in this country who are also building on us that we are moving something together!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12743	Irene Neumann-Hartberger is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12767	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Minister! Mr Kucher, you are very emotional. I understand that – that is good – but sometimes you also have to look at the topics very partnerly and not only demand them, but also do them. I would now like to do this by referring to a small part of the very comprehensive equal treatment report, namely where the Chambers of Agriculture – and the representatives of interest in general – are invited to deliver an opinion every second time in the equal treatment report. The Austrian Chamber of Agriculture states in this report that the provisions on equal treatment are already very well implemented. There are no problems in this respect in the implementation of the laws, especially in the field of labour law, many new legal measures have been adopted in recent years. very well implemented. The best example – one would hardly believe that equality and the traditional agricultural sector are compatible – is our top youth organisation, namely the rural youth. There, leadership has been working in parity for many decades. The importance of a clear commitment on both sides to bring about change also shows the example of the Austrian Chambers of Agriculture, together with the working group of farmers, where, at the initiative of the Federal Farmer Andrea Schwarzmann 2017, we signed the Charter for the Representative for Partnerships and set out to work together in the agricultural bodies to develop a occupation which means equality. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] A forward-looking step in this direction was already in 2019 when a woman was first praised as president of an Austrian Chamber of Agriculture with the fishing observation of the country-members from Upper Austria Michaela Langer-Wenninger. The proportion of women in the team of the Austrian Farmers' Federation for the current agricultural chamber election has increased from 29 to 38 percent – far from equality, but a good path, a right direction and a good increase. With regard to the forthcoming agricultural chamber elections in Upper Austria and Styria next weekend, I am convinced that many women will be included in this important agricultural body, and I wish them much success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12816	The word now comes Mag.a Verena Nussbaum. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12840	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear Seers! I am very pleased that we have finally put the issue of equal treatment on the agenda again today, which has been very neglected due to the corona pandemic in recent months. In my view, however, equality is more important at this time than ever. Through Covid-19 there has been a massive increase in inequalities in our society, and we will have to fight against the social consequences for a long time. We were able to see how the multiple loads of women increase again: Suddenly, many families had to care for their children during their working hours because the schools or disabled facilities were closed. Unfortunately, the majority of this extra burden remained on women – and this, although women in the working world have to put in a lot more than their male colleagues. A very old, but unfortunately still up-to-date issue is the lack of income transparency in companies. The Chamber of Labour and the union rightly criticise the inadequate income transparency in Austria. The differences in income are still high, the income shears are not really closing, and one can only conclude that the income reports that have existed for a few years are not effective to eliminate this dilemma. What we have learned from the past, I would say, is that positive incentives, education, information are not enough to change these conditions and reach the closure of the gender paygaps. That is why proper sanctions are needed in this area at last. Equally insufficient is the protection of women from sexual harassment at work. More than half of the female workers still experience sexual harassment, either by male colleagues, bosses or even by customers. This is probably totally unacceptable in 2021. Mrs. Federal Minister, when do you start working? When do you start to become active in these areas? Nothing happened for a year. Finally, I would like to address the situation of people with disabilities at work. The compensation tax system does not work well. In reality, many companies prefer to pay into the compensation tax fund rather than hire a person with disabilities. This is not an equal treatment policy that will bring us forward. This system reminds me of the trading of waste and the free purchase of social responsibility. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12885	Mrs Kira Grünberg is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12910	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I would like to add more or less to the speeches of my previous speaker and concentrate in my speech mainly on the inequality of people with disabilities. The report also deals with this issue in the report on equal treatment for the private sector, with some specific examples. Most people always think that there is discrimination only because of gender differences or ethnic reasons, but there are the most different reasons for discrimination, namely that of disability. It should not be forgotten here that women with disabilities are very often affected by multiple discrimination. People with disabilities face major challenges if they want to take a foothold on the First Labour Market. It is not even more difficult for disabled people than for people who are not disabled to obtain employment. Discriminations are also becoming more difficult here in advance or also in the interview. Most often the first major obstacle is to be invited as a disabled person to an interview at all, because unfortunately there are still too many prejudices. Even later in the workplace, people with disabilities are not affected by discrimination, even there they face it. As you can see, people with disabilities in the working world are not always easy. Especially because of the Corona crisis, the situation as a whole has become even worse. For me, professional participation is a central element for the overall social participation of people with disabilities and for an inclusive society. Let us finally give people a chance and accept all our differences! I can't repeat my appeal often enough: People with disabilities have to be considered in all – and I really mean here: in all – areas of life, including for example in the vaccination of corona. That's where we were forgotten at the beginning. Invisibility and not being perceived also means discrimination. Participation must be enabled to create appropriate framework conditions so that people with disabilities can really participate. Finally, I would like to thank the equal treatment attorneyship and the Equal Treatment Commission for their valuable and committed work.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12952	The next speaker is Mr Norbert Sieber. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12976	Mr President. Minister! Minister! High house! Estimated colleague Philip Kucher, it's just too little to roar and sterilize in here just wildly, it's much more important to work calmly and objectively, just like our minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Obviously, it is extremely difficult for you to acknowledge that our Mrs. Raab has increased the women's budget by 43 percent and thus almost doubled. Obviously, it is not possible that yours is recognized and Minister Raab is also supported accordingly in her actions. We ask you, come on another way! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To illustrate: This is the highest increase, almost a doubling, for more than ten years! Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, who was able to do what our woman's ministers could, has never brought you away in your term of office! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] To mention just a few points that have already been implemented: It is the strengthening of the protection of violence, a comprehensive expansion of women's advisory services in all the federal states that has been prompted, we have jointly launched the hatred-in-net fight law, and the upsizing has also been banned. These are just a few points, but moments of success of this woman's minister. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Kucher! Not only talk, not just roar around and stimulate wildly, but also co-shape, go along on the way of Mrs. Minister! We're ready to do this and we're happy to invite you to it. We're going to move a lot more.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e13038	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. I ask the clubs if they wish to interrupt the session. - That's not the case either. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Equal Treatment to take note of this report III-207 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Yannick Shetty, colleagues on 'Stop of homophobia and LGTIQ in Hungary'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[14:08:22]] 3rd. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (630, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Financial Balance Act 2017, the Income Tax Act 1988 and the Federal Tax Code (634 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e13104	We're coming to 3. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Andreas Kollross is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e13134	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Values listeners! Mr Finanzminister, Federal Chancellor Kurz called you one of her top experts in the presentation of the new Minister of Labour. Since then, I wonder, and I think, the whole Republic too: But for what? What are you expert for? I would like to say: Unfortunately, you are not an expert for the finances, for the upsurge of the economy, for aid measures that really come to the people concerned, and for the topic that is now being discussed here, the municipal finances, Mr. Minister, unfortunately, you are not an expert either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] First of all, to chronology: Since April of the previous year, we point out that there are financial bottlenecks in the municipalities. We have made six requests in this regard, and it has been explained time and again that this is not the case and that the communities are going well and so on and so on. At some point, the pressure was so great that you did not get out anymore, and then you decided on the municipal investment package – that was before the summer – when we pointed out from the beginning that this would not work because you did not take one into account, namely that liquidity in the communities is not given. Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that the worst enemy of the politician is known to be the archive, and that is why I have seen a bit of what the ÖVP, since this debate, has said all about the Community investment law. For example, Mr Wöginger said: “The mayors in my home community say: Gust, this is what we can do!” Mr Weratschnig of the Greens said: “There’s a simple federal promotion as a result of corona: Fast help is provided, the application is easy to complete. – So much to the Community Investment Act.” The problem is just: Unfortunately, this has very little to do with reality. In fact, you are coming up with it yourself, and in the Committee on Budgets we have debated this, Mr Finanzminister, you have said it yourself, and the colleague from the EIA has also said it: The communities lack liquidity! – That's why we need an additional law now. I can just say: Dear ÖVPler, dear Green, dear Minister of Finance, congratulations! You've just needed ten months to realize what we've been telling you since April. Congratulations! Respect! It's only taken ten months. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, come the next pipe recorder, the next package that really doesn't work, because: What is this package really? We have only recently had a debate on the question, Mr Finance Minister: Is it possible for communities to be indebted or not? Is your proposal that communities owe themselves, a good or not? – I am very grateful for your ability to learn and now come up with it: So with the loans themselves That's not possible!, just: Now you're making a detour. What are you doing? – Now don’t send the communities to the bank institution, now you owe the communities themselves, because your aid package you’re talking about here is actually a package that the communities pay themselves. Let's take a look at it! The headline – which is the most important thing for the government – of course works. If you don't know yourself, you say, Wow, the government has done something great again, 1.5 billion euros the communities now! – But what does reality look like? – The reality is: 1 billion euros get the municipalities on advance! That means that this is de facto a credit, but because the communities themselves can't borrow credit, you're giving up earlier income shares and indebted to the communities. – For information only for the public: For the donors of the ÖVP, for example, when it comes to the gambling group Novomatic, there is an 80 percent replacement for the loss of income. For the communities there are debts, otherwise nothing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And what about the remaining 500 million euros? – Yes, 100 million are really – yes, Minister, that’s true – the remaining 400 million are also just a budget trick, because 260 million have already flown. That means, in reality, 140 million remain – for 2 095 communities. This is your help package: 140 million euros for 2,500 municipalities. This is the only money that really flows – everything else is a debt that you're putting up with the communities now. And so that the communities don't cut off with this money – unfortunately my speaking time is already ending – you don't even pay it out at once, but quarterly, it is now paying 140 million euros to 2 095 municipalities. To congratulations! That's what I'm going to put in the post office, Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why, unfortunately, because this is a non-help package for the communities, we are finally making a further request, which would finally be a real remedy by 100 per cent of the community's revenue losses, namely a request from fellow Members Krainer, Stöger, Kollross, colleagues and colleagues for a real salary loss of the municipalities by providing 250 euros per head of population for the municipalities. This would be the only necessary and the right thing, because then not only can the communities guarantee their services to citizens, but the communities could do one thing, above all – and perhaps the alleged economic party ÖVP should consider this –: They could also invest again. This, in turn, would be a major contribution for the regional economy in particular. One cannot escape the crisis, but one must invest out of the crisis. The municipalities would be a key factor in this. You don't understand. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[14:15]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e52277	The amendment has been explained in the main guidelines, it has been distributed, is sufficiently supported and is therefore properly implemented. Mr Gerstl referred to an actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e52304	Mr President. Mr Kollross claimed that ÖVP donors would receive revenue from Novomatic. I'm actually correcting the fact that sales are made by everyone and every woman and that most of Novomatic donations have been made to the SPÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e52331	The next speaker is Mr Manfred Hofinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e52353	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr Kollross, the only mogel pack available is that the SPÖ has discovered the small communities at once in the crisis – but not before. I'm already excited about how it'll look like the crisis. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Rössler.]] I am very pleased, as a local speaker of the ÖVP, that we can decide today on this second municipal package of 1.5 billion euros. It is very unbureaucratic – the municipalities get the money paid out with the incomes – it helps quickly, and it has been negotiated with the Minister of Finance, together with the participants – with the municipal government, with the municipal government, with the mayors involved. I would therefore like to thank you very much for this good, unbureaucratic package. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Maybe just a few words about what it's all about: The communities have many tasks to fulfil, from the infrastructure – water, canal, kindergartens, folk schools – to associations and so on and so on. What do the communities pay for these things? – They pay them to a large part of the income, the federal tax resources. These are transferred directly from the federal government, but they are dependent on the economic power of Austria, on the tax revenue generated by the federal government. As a result of this crisis, we received 9 percent less income in the municipalities last year. That's 1 billion euros. We did these in the first package: The municipalities have received this 1 billion euros with the first package. Unfortunately, due to this crisis, it also looks gloomy in 2021: A further 3 per cent is added, resulting in a total of 12.5 per cent less income. That's 1.5 billion euros – and that's the package we're going to decide today. We already said it in June at the first package: If it is not enough, we will not abandon our communities. That is precisely why we are deciding today on this package, a three-part package, with which we are particularly promoting the small-structured, weak communities: with the structural assistance of EUR 100 million, by increasing the share of income by EUR 400 million and with advances from the income ratios of EUR 1 billion, which will be retained from 2023 onwards, but also under the premise: if the share of income increases by 2 percent. In other words, there must be a certain degree of economic performance that the municipalities must repay these advances. We stand by our strong communities. They are the largest employers and investors in the regions. We maintain the liquidity and planning security of our communities with this package. In this way, beautiful projects can be implemented in the municipalities, and they can be invested. On criticism of the first package, which was only used 30 percent: It is understandable to anyone who deals with community policy. Projects must be prepared, requested, but they will be picked up by train, and there will certainly be no euro left. On the general criticism of SPÖ and FPÖ: For me, this is absolutely not understandable. One could put this under the motto: In the crisis, keep the party flag high at all costs! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] This is being played here, and this makes me almost unworded, I have to say quite honestly. This is also without responsibility to the citizens, the municipalities, the mayors and all the officials in the communities. [[Abg. Smoke:... not only ÖVP officials in the communities!]] I find this to be totally unresponsible. We are all in a boat and have to deal with this crisis together – but not so. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] “The character proves itself in the crisis,” said someone who probably knows SPÖ well, namely former German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] That's what I've got to say: Now in the crisis to discover the small communities, dear SPÖ, is already a bit fickle! Finally, I would like to thank all the mayors, all the officials in the local authorities, for their ability to do their best in the crisis. [[Abg. Belakovich: Thank you!]] [[Abg. Smoking: Thank you!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] I think this is remarkable – both in the testing and now in the vaccinations. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I would also like to make a brief reference to the NEOS request: A monitoring in this context certainly does not harm, we will also support that in this case. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] To the municipal finances of my municipality with 1 300 inhabitants: Last year we had 138 000 euros of less income, and the Federal KIP funds were exactly 138 000 euros. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] So it went out exactly. This has been a good promotion for the communities, and the new community package will also arrive very well. After consultation with other mayors, I can say that everyone is happy that this money is coming, and everyone can start with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e52471	Mr Erwin Angerer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e52495	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Höfinger, this is not a community aid package, it is a community tax package, and that is not responsible for what you are doing here. [[a table with a graphic and the heading “Effects on the income of the communities” on the speaker’s desk]] [[Complementary with FPÖ and SPÖ.]] I will also explain to you why this is a community tax package: A credit is always a burden, and you burden the communities on years in advance, thus weakening their capacity to invest in the future – and that is the wrong way. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] To the municipal investment package also one word – I think you have understood it that way, you are just trying to turn it around now –: Communal investment package has been called for to provide the economy with the money to implement the projects in the municipalities. As mayor, you need to know that this has nothing to do with the ordinary budget, where the 138 000 euros are taxes, because it is happening in the extraordinary budget or now in the investigative budget, according to our new accounting system. This has nothing to do with the ordinary budget and the taxes. – So don’t compare the municipal investment package with the process that the municipalities have in the households! Now perhaps very briefly to this graphic that the budget service has delivered to us. [[on this point]] As you can see very accurately and very well, the municipalities alone have less incomes of around EUR 1 billion in the last year. Of course, in the estimates, the municipalities expected an increase in revenue, the share of income. That is, looking at the years ahead, 2018 on 2019, 2017 on 2018, there has always been an increase, of course, because the economy has also grown. This means, of course, that the municipalities also lack much more money in their planning, since there is a lack of 1.5 to 2 billion euros. In addition, the outages of local taxes are added. Ask a Tyrolean or a Carinthian community or a Salzburgian community, where all the restaurants are now locked up, as the loss of revenue looks like! There is also a different impact, just as there are companies. Many communities will have much more problems and problems and will no longer be able to invest. That's fact. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Kollross has already explained the EUR 1.5 billion, which means EUR 1 billion. One sees it, in the years 2023, 2024, 2025 the communities have to repay it. That means a burden for the future, that's a load package. Of the 400 million you list: 260 million were already paid out last year. Now the Minister of Finance is so generous and says: I do not ask that back from the churches, and the 140 we have taken too much, they still get them! So there are 140 million euros left for 2 000 communities – you don’t need to shake your head, that’s just a fact, you can’t discuss it away – and 100 million euros for 1,096 structurally weak communities. That's it and it's not anymore. If you ask the population outside today – you can do it –: What else is working in the country?, then everyone will tell you: The waste disposal works, the water is provided, the snow clearing works, the kindergarten care works! - Everything the communities do works. What doesn't work in the state? . Anything that federal government does. [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] You are not able to support the businesses to the extent that they need it, you are not even able to send and distribute the masks, you are not able to increase the beds in our hospitals, neither the intensive beds nor the normal beds. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ]] – You are not able to do anything! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Now, when I look at the vaccination: That's the best I've ever experienced. We have been assigned as congregations to raise the over 80-year-olds. That took three days, then it was done in every church. In Carinthia, 26 000 over 80 years of age have now applied for vaccination. Today I get a letter from the Federal Government in which there is the following; first of all: [[this pointing]] Love over 80 years old! You must all be patient because the Federal Government is not able to carry out the vaccine! – Second, to the mayor: For this reason, it is also advised to accept further notifications and forward them to the country or to the ÖGK! [[Abg. Smoking: A madness!]] That means we should now tell the over 80-year-olds: Unfortunately, we can't accept you anymore, you can't sign in to us anymore, we can't accept you for vaccination anymore, do it yourself! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Please, dear over 80 years old, call the Minister of Health, the Minister of Finance, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, but not the mayor! They've been baffling it. It's really a naughty thing that happened! They are not able to vaccinate people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Loacker: The desperate ÖVP mayors must now...!]] Please explain this to me, too! In the district of Spittal, vaccination is only carried out in the district capital, in the premises of the local health fund. Now explain to me, like a elderly man over 80 years of holy blood – there are currently about 2 meters of snow, in the next few days a bit of bit is coming – in the short term, because he will be called by the CCC in the short term, to come to Spittal. Maybe he's driving the student bus – I don't know if he's driving on Sunday, because it's mostly vaccinated on the weekend. Then the 50-80-year-olds jump into the bus in Heiligenblut, travel together to Spittal, perhaps get stuck together, get vaccinated in the CCC and then go back 2 hours? [[Call the ÖVP: Get the hell out of here!]] How is that supposed to work? How is this logistics supposed to work? That's impermeable! You write, you can't use the doctors on site, the domestic doctors for it because you don't make it logistically. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Why should I put it? You're not in the federal army? Why should I put it? You are not in favour of distributing the vaccine to the Federal Army if we are attacking such a bad virus in this country and endangering the people? [[Call the ÖVP:On the topic!]] There people over 80 years of age who don't have a car have to drive hundreds of miles somewhere where there is no public traffic and have to be vaccinated there. – That’s right, that’s right! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Weidinger: Look at the SPÖ! The Emperor...!]] It is therefore simply necessary for the communities to receive the corresponding money to maintain their structures. That is why I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask you, Minister: What about the money you've given the media, over 100 million euros? Is that a credit too? If it's better, do they pay it back? What about the debts you took? These are public debt, 40 billion euros currently. Who will pay them back? Have you planned in the next budgets that: You're paying them back? So I haven't seen a budget of the federal government in which any debt has been cut off over the last 65 years. We serve the interest rates, but no debts. And the churches shall pay back the billions? – This is irrational policy. This is what I tell you mayors – and also the chief mayor, Mayor Riedl – our local representatives: That is not responsible for what you do to the churches. [[Complementary with FPÖ and SPÖ.]] [[14:30]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e52732	Mrs Elisabeth Götze is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Before that, I can add that the motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore also under negotiation. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e52759	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear High House! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! I really enjoyed this speech, because I am convinced that today we are deciding on something very important, very good for the communities. We agree: Communities have a great importance for the people, they care for childcare and school, provide us with water, public transport and much more. My home village of Eichgraben, for example, has also organized the food supply of the elderly in the crisis, and it is currently taking care of testing and vaccination, like all communities. Today we are talking about municipal finances. We know how communities finance themselves: through income shares, these are the taxes of the federal government that are distributed to the municipalities, and secondly by the municipal taxes, these are those taxes that companies pay in the area – and both are now breaking into the crisis. Therefore, there is a need for action. We decided last June to make the municipal investment package available to the municipalities 1 billion euros, based on a fixed key. In my home community, this – in Eichgraben, 5,000 people live – is more than 480 000 euros. By the way: We, too, have only used up a part because of the fact that we are Community projects plan and consider when this makes sense. We will then submit the projects if it makes sense. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We get 483,000 euros; for each project a 50 percent grant, for example for cycle paths, for the construction of photovoltaic systems or even for channel renovation – that is what all communities do. Today, this is a second package, because the crisis continues, this EUR 1 billion is not sufficient, and some municipalities are, of course, struggling to finance the 50 percent grant. That is why we are here today discussing the second package of EUR 1.5 billion, of which EUR 500 000 is real aid, and EUR 1 billion advance, as we have already discussed. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] For Eichgraben, for example – I looked at the numbers – this means: This year, we are automatically paying 650 000 euros with the proportions of income over the course of the year; automatically, without a request, I think that this is really very pleasant for municipalities. Part of it, specifically EUR 378 000, has to pay back Eichgraben – but only when the income shares increase again. This means that communities will be guaranteed a growth path, a growth path of an average of 2 percent – expected from the last high year 2019, over the next seven years, by 2027 – from almost 11 billion euros to more than 12.7 billion euros in earnings for the whole of Austria. Thus, the federal government offers the municipalities absolute planning security and takes over the risk of failure. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Only then, if the income shares are above this 2% set out in this law, will repayments be made. I believe that this is really very important for the communities. I would like to address two other points, namely the Structural Funds – specifically EUR 100 million for the weak communities – and as a second point: Of course, we will go along with the NEOS request, which concerns monitoring, so that we can see which communities may be more and which are less indebted and how the communities actually invest, if they do. If it is necessary, we can also talk about whether further improvements are necessary, but I must say that I am convinced that this is a milestone for actionable communities today, that they can invest in the future and continue to ensure the provision of the population as well as ever.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e52826	The word is Mag.a Dr.in Sonja Hammerschmid. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e52850	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Even before the beginning of the pandemic, the communities were on the front line in carrying out a large number of actually central tasks, such as basic education, such as schools, for example, because they were school-keepers of compulsory schools, and before the crisis began, quite a lot of communities were not filled with bright pockets and were able to invest in everything they dreamed of. I still remember too well the discussions on the expansion of schools all day long, when the communities cried out, they cannot live only with a start-up funding, because they simply do not have the money to finance and continue to take over these schools all day. – And then came Corona! The communities were suddenly faced with less revenue – colleague Götze has already done a wonderful job of putting together municipal finances – and they had to take on a number of additional activities. I remember the test roads, I also say that they will be in the organisation of the vaccinations on the front line. That is, and this is now a topic, they have often been used for the federal administration if there was a need for men or women. Only yesterday did I have a telephone call with Andreas Babler; some know him, he is the mayor of Traiskirchen. He has acted exactly where the Federal Administration or the Ministries, in this case in concrete the Ministry of Education, have repeatedly failed and nothing came except press statements and announcements. He has done a lot in kindergartens and schools. He has implemented CO2 measuring instruments, in every single class, in every single room; he has acquired air cleaning equipment, in every class, in every single room; he has distributed FFP2 masks to all educators in the kindergartens, in schools; he has already set up fast test roads for the educators in autumn, Monday and Thursday are test days for the educators, for the care staff, and there is also an acute service. This is actually not the task of communities, but he paid it out of the municipal fund, naturally, because he wanted to provide this service to his citizens. That is, if we want communities to be innovative, that communities invest in a wide range of kindergartens, if we want them to equip schools accordingly, be it with broadband, with Wi-Fi connections – we want a fully digitalised school – then we have to invest. The expansion of schools throughout the day is only through the strengthening of the communities, we have already heard it. Whether it's the school offer, whether it's the free lunch for the children – there's really much to do. What is now being proposed as a community funding package – it has already been beautifully presented today – is a shift, namely a shift in this advance to the following years, but certainly not an investment programme to strengthen kindergartens or schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e52892	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Karin double farmer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e52917	Mr President! Federal Minister! As already announced in the Committee, we are going to vote in favour of NEOS today, because we have carefully balanced the advantages and disadvantages and have considered the positive aspects for us. You all know the situation: The communities perform very, very important tasks and have, of course, costs that cannot be scaled down and should not be scaled down. They provide services that they can't easily employ now, and therefore the Federation must help what we do with this package, and that, as I think, in a very reasonable way. Why do I say that? The purpose of the special advances is to ensure liquidity and make the development of income for the municipalities more planned, i.e. they can then say: How much can I invest, how much can I spend? What I think is particularly good is that the debt due to advances is deficiently transferred from the municipality to the federal level. This makes sense because, of course, the federal government can handle debt much better than the individual communities if they have to borrow loans. The third point is that this model of non-profit loans has an advantage over the simple grants, namely that money is also used in a sustainable manner with the resource. This is also important to us NEOS. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] So from our point of view, it is not poorly designed, but there are points that can be improved. One – and I would like to thank my colleague Götze and colleagues Hofinger – was about the reliability of the funds, because it was probably for pragmatic reasons that the funds were divided according to the existing distribution keys. As I have said, this is understandable, but it is not correct, because of course there are communities that are now much harder affected, especially the tourist communities, which also have money, because they simply come in less. So that's simple and just not that easy. We have therefore said that we want to carry out a joint evaluation, and we will bring it together. We have put forward a motion for a resolution which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] As I said, I would like to thank you for that. There is a second point, which is quite frankly annoying me, namely the so-called national situation. They all know – and the KDZ has just confirmed it again in an interview – that the communities have to repay about 35 percent of all the income they get for the completion of their work and which they really, really need, as a state envelope to the countries. I just find this very absurd: At a time when we are taking debt as a federal government so that we can make more money available to the communities, 35 percent of these funds then return to the country! So, ladies and gentlemen, that can't be it, and there are also quite good examples where this is no longer the case, namely in Vienna, and yes, especially in Lower Austria. If I look – I am Upper Austria – at the fact that the country received 116 million euros from the municipalities in 2019, I say: That's really not to see. That is why I am tabling a motion for a resolution. It says: Motion for a resolution by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Karin Doppelbauer, colleagues and colleagues on the abolition of state aid The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Finance, is invited to take all necessary steps to bring about the abolition of the state levy.” [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] A last sentence, because Mayor Kollross of SPÖ has made a request from the SPÖ again today – I think it is for the third time the same request – in which it is a matter of being quite intrusive – above all not perfectly safe – to distribute money to the communities Mr. Mayor Kollross, I have looked up in the early days, the municipality Trumau is still not at www.open budget.at! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross.]] [[Abg. Kollross: thematic failure!]] This is a click for your community, a click! [[Abg. Kollross: Don't get better, Mrs. Colleague!]] Look at your neighbor in Traiskirchen – Mrs. Hammerschmid has already said what he is good at – he has solved this perfectly. [[Abg. Kollross: thematic failure!]] So, Mr Mayor, I don't know if you have nothing to hide, then just go to www.open budget.at! – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kollross.]] [[14:44]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e53122	Both motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported, properly put in place and are therefore also under negotiation. Now Mr. Federal Minister Mag has himself. Gernot Blümel to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e53148	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Values Advisors! I have now listened very carefully to the previous speakers, there have been many good suggestions. I have been following Mr Kollross's speech particularly intensively. – I have to tell you, I will give you a certain respect for the sophistical little masterpiece you have done there: just nothing to talk you away from 2.5 billion euros. You did well, I have to say that. However, the facts are against it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross.]] I think I also heard out why you put yourself in the stuff to make the 2.5 billion euros disappear. That was legible in your speech between the lines. You have blamed the government for having responded to criticisms expressed by the SPÖ and you as a person. [[Abg. Kollross: Recognized! Don't go in!]] I would assume that if you think that the government is responding to criticism, you feel it is good and agreeable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] But this is probably the reason why you have put yourself in the stuff to disapprove of 2.5 billion euros: because you still do not agree. You needed a reason I didn't understand, but be it. Nevertheless: 2.5 billion euros for local authorities are important and right for local investment. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] It is clear that the Covid crisis is a challenge for all local authorities. First of all, we from the Federal Government are trying to save lives, not overburden the health system, and secondly, to bring jobs and businesses through this crisis and also to provide adequate funding to communities which are an important partner in this crisis so that they can carry out their important tasks and continue to invest in the regional economy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross]] [[Further call to the SPÖ]] The first step was the municipal investment programme in the volume of 1 billion euros, in the distribution key by the same criteria as that negotiated with the SPÖ a few years ago, but with a much higher volume and much more flexible than agreed with the SPÖ at the time. Much more areas of funding, which are the most important tasks of the communities, up to the general provision of services, are covered. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] This can really be seen, and that is why more than 320 million euros have been approved and paid, ladies and gentlemen, so far! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Kollross:... 30 percent...!]] In order to continue providing the communities with planning security and the opportunity to work out exactly what the money is collected for which projects the money is exactly invested in, we have set up another community package. It is made up of a total of 1.5 billion euros – you have already communicated it properly – and about 400 million euros of them are directly fresh money. What you have forgotten about this is that the transfer of income was an advance transfer on the basis of very different economic data. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] But be it also, we have said that the 400 million belong to the communities for investment in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] In addition, there is EUR 100 million for the Structural Funds for weaker communities so that they can also get money from the municipal investment programme. Since it is also a requirement of the municipalities themselves that one should be able to owe themselves cheaply, but which is often not accepted by the countries, we have said that we are giving the opportunity to include a slightly pointless credit in the federal government, which will be paid down over the next few years to ensure liquidity in order to remove all the funds from the municipal investment programme. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Matznetter]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross.]] I think that's a good package. I thank you for the many good suggestions that have also come from colleagues Kollross. I think that's why he could only agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e53284	The next speaker is Mr Walter Rauch. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e53309	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Finanzminister, I didn't know that you could also act as a banker for the communities in parallel, because nothing else you do. They give loans to the communities, and this also burdens the communities. I would have expected not only the 100 million euros that you yourself have now put into space as a promotion, but that you will definitely get under the arms of the communities. Mr Angerer formulated it earlier: This is a municipal tax package and not a municipal promotion package. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They have addressed the liquidity of the municipalities. Many cannot get these funding from the municipal investment programme because they do not have their own resources to do so. I hope that very, very many mayors will now be watching, because what you intend to do with the communities will be revealed here: to burden them even more over the next few years, to tax them and, of course, to curtail them in their economic efficiency and in their activities, especially in the provision of living. You have to take note of that! They cut the communities in general care: Channel, water, waste, schools, kindergartens and, and. Where are 2021 investments? - Nothing! There are very, very many communities that cannot invest. Why not? - Because they don't have the financial resources. - That was the first point. The second point is the failure of the municipal tax. In many areas the companies, the companies, the companies are looking for support for local tax payments. They are looking not only for support, but also for support in this area. All of this affects the communities, the mayors, the board members, and these are not all ÖVP mayors, there are different boards. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Anyway, Mr. Hörl, it's not everyone in the cable car at home. There are also others who otherwise have to activate themselves economically. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] So I expect you to be involved and there with the heart and the brain for the citizens. Since I have to think of colleagues Angerer again: The vaccination strategy alone sees what you plan to do, how you leave the communities in the rain with the vaccination strategy. It can't be that I now as mayor get a letter that I can't accept registrations anymore. At the same time, make yourself up and say that health needs to be safeguarded. This population group cannot be vaccinated 80 plus because there must be no registration. So I ask for more honesty, more transparency in this area! One last point: Mr. Federal Minister, you are part of this government. Open the schools and stop with this educational chaos that you've done!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e53375	Mr Gabriel Obernosterer came to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e53399	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! I have already heard a lot of discussions and experienced that opposition parties – like now the Freeman or the SPÖ – do not go along, although there is a good package, because they do not want to admit it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Waller.]] I've heard all of this, but I haven't heard anything in the 15 years since I've been in this house: We know the situation, we know that the communities have to be helped. There are these billions for investment, there is now the EUR 400 million grant, there is EUR 100 million for the weak communities; and for those who fail to do so, there are still 1 billion to be collected as a pointless loan when it is necessary. And then the liberals go out and say, That's not an auxiliary package, it's a load package! – So today I have learned once again what is possible in political rhetoric. [[Call the FPÖ: Is it yes!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you say it's a load package, Mr. Angerer, I'll tell you: There are many institutions that need money. Donate the money there if it's just a burden and no help for you! [[Abg. Anger:... Mayor!]] Also a word towards SPÖ: If it is said that in Austria the aid packages of our Minister of Finance do not arrive, then call the German Minister of Finance! He calls on our Minister of Finance and asks how he does that, that the aid will arrive so quickly, and copies our programme. Call there, for you don't believe it anyway! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I have also been a municipal man datar, and I have talked to our mayor and our head of office. We are a poor community, in the last corner, there is no industry, nothing at all, with 1 300 inhabitants, a grant community, so to speak. I asked: Will the money help you? How is it in practice? – We economists look at how the implementation is, and not what it is, I also say that. [[the speaker lifts the right hand and brings together thumbs and fingers several times in a row and again apart]] You know what our mayor said? – I wrote it down, but my speaking time is too short to say this literally: This has enabled us to finance the rest of the investment in our kindergarten with 38 000 euros this year, we have made canal construction in our community, through this package it has been possible to fold the holes, otherwise we would have done so only next year, and for 2021 has not been removed any investment, but through these packages we are able to also make the additional investments and fulfil all the duties of the community! You're supposed to get out of here and tell me that's not true! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Roll.]] Give ear to something that is done, and don't talk all bad!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e53485	Mr Alois Stöger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e53507	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank all the communities – to the mayors, to the local representatives. You are the level of administration that works well now in the crisis. You did what the people expect of you. Thank you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Something that doesn't work is what the Federal Minister has written in the Federal Estimate 2020. That's why the communities have now received too much money that he wants to take away from them again. The Federal Minister made a mistake, and the communities have the problem. So that the communities do not have the problem, we already said in April: Please, you have to give the communities money! - When does anyone invest? – If he has a perspective on revenue. But what does this federal government do? – She says: You're out of money anyway. Take up a loan so you can get something to eat, but next and next year you'll get less money. – Can she eat something next and next year? Can they invest next and next year? Is that the idea of investment policy? My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the case, and that is why we shall vote against it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I put forward a motion for a resolution so that the communities that are always working for the people will be provided with FFP2 masks free of charge. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[14:57]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e53623	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Christoph Stark has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e53650	Mr President. High house! Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Today, too, I am pleased to express my views on the parish package and may start this speech with an unusual view of the Old Testament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] There it says: “Every man has his time, and all the things under heaven have his hour: [...]; plants [...], cure [...], build” and much more has its time. [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] Why do I say that? In this high house the speech was already more often about the community package. But it was called upon at a time when the state, the Parliament, the government was challenged by very different things, namely by saving the economy, saving health, saving society, and by much more. [[Abg. Belakovich: Unfortunately both did not work!]] In between, i.e. between all these tasks, there was the municipal investment programme with which the municipalities could catch up with their project delay. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] In the direction of the SPÖ colleagues, I say: Yes, now is the time; now the communities are also involved, because of course we have tasks that will contribute and contribute to the stability of the state, to the stability of society. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We have already mentioned duties to carry out. People rely on child care, social care and much more. The communities are a very, very essential pillar. It's clear: With this EUR 1.5 billion, we can carry out these tasks. However, it is also clear that the communities are part of the state that they manage public funds, budget public funds and also bear corresponding responsibility. It can't be that the covenant carries all the loads and no one else. That is why there is this project: to distribute these loads a little, which as communities has been very helpful to us. Ladies and gentlemen, I started looking into the Old Testament and I also conclude with the book Kohelet: “Each one has his time”, also the fight and the peace. Mr President – now there is another one – Mr President, Mr Bundes Partyobmann Hofer, Mr Klubobmann Kickl, who is not present at the moment, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! In these weeks it is not just about the communities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[Call the SPÖ:... government!]] In these weeks, we are talking about the health of thousands of people in our country, and I therefore appeal to you: It's not the time to argue now. It is also not the time for small-minded and short-sighted policies. Now is the time for the shoulder closure for the people. [[Abg. Kassinger:... opinions...!]] Take the mutation of the virus on the occasion of mutating your policy only in this sector, and come on the common path in the fight against corona, disease and death! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e53743	Mrs Berlakovich is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e53765	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Federal Minister! High house! The communities are important to us, and this is why these packages are in agreement with the package of the last time, because the diversity of Austrian communities is, in fact, the diversity of our country as well. The different historical development, the different landscapes, the peculiarities of the population – this in total represents the diversity and uniqueness of Austria, and we know that the communities are developing activities because they know the basic needs of the local population and because they bring a dynamic into the regional economy through their investments. They thus provide people with their homes and, in particular, safety at present. Many people go, if they have the opportunity to go out into the communities to better get through the corona crisis there. To all of us – the Minister of Finance, the Federal Government and us, who were also working in municipal councils – it is aware that we need to support the communities there, especially in investment, but especially in the provision of services, in the design of the basic needs of the population. We need to invest in social care, in day care facilities, in schools, in water supply and wastewater treatment – investments in the communities are really investments in the future. This creates strong regional value added, and often these projects are very strongly supported by the population. A number: In 2019, some 3 billion euros were invested by the municipalities in Austria without the city of Vienna, and this has had an employment effect of 40 000 jobs. This already shows that the communities are of enormous importance in addition to meeting the basic needs of the regional economy. Thus, the municipal billions in the previous year are to be seen: to enable the municipalities to make investments. What is spoken here of by the opposition – apologies, these are arguments on the hair. The investment in the regional economy makes use of the municipality, making use of the population. [[Abg. Kollross: Yes, but...!]] The Federal Minister mentioned the number of projects. Do you know what was invested in that? – A quarter of these funds have recently been invested by the communities in childcare, in schools, of course also in wastewater treatment and water supply. In conversation with many mayors it became clear that projects have already been submitted or are in the pipeline – the program is not yet completed. Now comes the support with the second package. What reason? You here all the time from loans? – Normally, if you take a loan, you have to pay repayments, you have to pay interest. That's not what happens. The communities are getting an advance so that they are currently liquid to meet the needs of the citizens, and that is the effect of this programme for which we have fought as ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Members of the Prince sit here – at the time a local speaker – and colleagues Hofinger and Werner Groiß are committed to the structurally weak small communities that have even more requirements and need support. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] At that time, we successfully implemented and, as part of the financial compensation, achieved the establishment of this Structural Funds for weak communities, which are now receiving additional money. This is not supposed to be a conflict between large cities and small communities, but these small communities really need it very urgently to cover the basic needs. One last sentence: These municipal packages are investments in regional development. They are effective packages that actively shape regional policy, and in this sense the Federation is an important partner of our communities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e53813	Mr Leercher is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please. [[Call at ÖVP:Muss also in a community at home...!]] - Excuse me?
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e53871	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In the crisis, the character appears, the colleague said – that the ÖVP dares to say it here at all! Yes, in the crisis one sees the character, namely of you, that you are not willing to give the communities the money they owe them. [[Abg. Wöger: Yes, eh!]] [[Call at the ÖVP:... Not about character at all...!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Melchior.]] They are not prepared to pay off revenue to the municipalities. That's not you, here you can make marketing, as much as you want, at the end remains: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weidinger]] They are not willing to pay off the waste to the communities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What would you do without communities? If they hadn't cleared away your shears for weeks, we would still be there in Austria. Who saved you during vaccination? [[Call the ÖVP: If there is nothing...!]] Who saved you while testing? Who Explains Your regulations, which nobody else can understand? Who stands up to the frustrated citizens? [[Abg. Strasser: Max Lercher!]] – It is the mayors, ladies and gentlemen, and you are now too envious – otherwise I cannot explain – to pay them with tax money, which is theirs. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] This would be a real economic multiplier for this country and a real start-up funding – and that of the so-called mayor and mayor party ÖVP! Do you know who calls us every day? – Also the ÖVP mayors, who do not submit to the message control. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] They strengthen us in the fight for their money, because you are not willing to give the communities the respect and the money that is definitely due to them. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Wöginger:... own party!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I say it to you, ladies and gentlemen, this heart of our political system, the communities, the regions that you are now so neglecting will notice it – because it is a mistake for the economy and also for our system here in Austria. Not to strengthen the communities at present, not to give them what is due to them, will be expensive for us in the coming years. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Mr Finanzminister, you have not yet told us: Who is to pay for this crisis? We know it through the hacker scheme: You started with the hardworking people in Austria, and you seem to continue with the communities, because someone will have to pay for it. There will be no wealth tax, no inheritance tax. They do not want to get where there is so much and nothing is paid for long, but with the communities, there we give a credit, and then we get it back – instead of giving them this money that is urgently needed for a good development of this country. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] This is inappropriate, ladies and gentlemen, and the mayors will be just as grateful to you. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e54021	Mr Lindinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e54059	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! [[The speaker put a table on which a diagram entitled “Effects on the returns of the communities” is presented on the speaker’s desk.]] In one case, I can agree with you, Mr Lercher: They say the mayors will thank themselves. It is really money that contributes to liquidity in the communities we decide here in the second package. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The crisis has hit many areas, and it has also torn great holes into the municipal budgets. That is exactly why this Federal Government has launched the municipal investment programme – 1 billion euros for projects in our communities. This has resulted in the fact that our communities do not have to put aside the projects, but that they have also been able to implement them accordingly. It is also seen in the applications: A total of 2,700 applications, 320 million euros have already been approved and paid out. These are projects that have been continued and implemented in our communities in the last half of the year. Secondly, the package has supported the regional economy precisely with us in the municipalities in our regions. With this extra EUR 1.5 billion, the second package, we see that our communities are liquid, we see that our communities can continue to finance themselves. This graphic in front of me shows it differently than my previous speakers have claimed, the yield shares rise. [[pointing to the panel at the speaker's desk]] In 2021, compared with 2019, when we had very high income shares, we have a plus of 2.6 percent. You can see the line that rises slightly – continuous, legally safe growth. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Anger.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this shows that as a People's Party and this Federal Government, we are 100 percent behind our communities, that liquidity is guaranteed in our communities and that our communities are the local contact points. Ladies and gentlemen of the Free and Social Democrats: Now you have it in your hand that you prove backbone, also for your mayor, and agree to this package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e54131	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 3 on the agenda so that the urgent procedure required can take place at 3.10 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:11:31]] Request for urgent procedure by Mr Josef Schellhorn, colleagues on ‘New confidence and trust - better get out of the crisis’ (1221A/(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e54162	We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 1221/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, his reading by the scribe is not sufficient. The urgent request reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e54373	I should like to speak as an applicant for the urgent request. – You know, there are 20 minutes at your disposal. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e54394	I can wait for the Minister of Finance to appear in the Chamber. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: He's back!]] Mr President. Estimated Minister! Mr State Secretary! I'm kind of tired. I'm tired of being an entrepreneur because I think all the time: How's it going? How do I do this with my employees now? As an entrepreneur, Mr Finanzminister, I am also tired of preparing a speech for you, as a member of the national council, as an economic speaker, because it makes me temporary inadvisable to prepare a speech for you. We screamed, we argued, we argued. Sometimes – I admit it – I was angry, but I pleaded about it, I asked for examples, compromises, proposals. I think we are one thing that I feel the same thing as an entrepreneur and you, Minister of Finance, are. Sometimes we can't. Sometimes we can't, because we don't know if we're either overburdened or visionless, how it should go on. Then comes the moment when I think of myself as a politician: That can't be it, it can't be, we could if we wanted! That's what I'm talking about with this shoulder closure. If we wanted to, we could solve this biggest health crisis, this biggest economic crisis together, and this is actually the matter. At first I thought I was tired because the shoulder closure must not only be a word, but also the shoulder closure must be lived by the government. I'd imagine that. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I am also tired because I think that promises only make posters and radio spots. Fatigue is also reflected when daily suffering is puffed in spin doctors and PK machinery. Then I think they're real stickers who don't know what cold wind blows the entrepreneurs into the face. This is the point on which it actually applies. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Then I think: What am I supposed to tell you? – They actually know everything and usually do the other. But I also agree with you, Minister of Finance: At that time, in March 2020, we all had an understanding of how it will go or how it will not work. We all trusted you to do the right thing. We all trusted what you said. You said in spring: We don't leave anyone behind, cost what it wants. They played the hammer, but they totally forgot about the dance. The hammer is still hard and resistant today. Even in the form of your communication deaster, the hammer is hard and resistant, because you simply don't feed us with transparent numbers so that we can act transparent and evidence-based. On the dance you forgot – let's say you haven't even seen the Elmayer from the outside. You then tried to dance Charleston in November, because nothing happened all summer. From my point of view, however, the Charleston of this government was actually something for movement legasthenics. He didn't work. If I do not get the help that has gone over the summer, then in November perhaps with an overcompensation that I have to deal with, because I am random in tourism, I get, for which I have to argue that nothing has happened throughout the summer, I can only say that this 80 percent revenue was urgently necessary. He was urgently necessary for those who recognize themselves in tourism, and it was not necessary for those who do not recognize themselves in tourism. The incomprehensible thing for me is that throughout the summer – knowingly – nothing was done for the second and third waves and nothing was prepared at all. More precisely, we were comforted by medium-sized and direct tourist establishments from the autumn of the week to the week. The amazing thing about it is: In mid-December, the Minister of Health knew that there was this mutation in Austria, and he told us only in mid-January. What has happened in the meantime and what has the Minister of Finance done in the meantime, knowing well that the mutation is unstoppable, knowing well that the lockdown needs to be extended, a hard lockdown must come and the winter farms cannot be locked up? On the other hand, I feel the cold wind that blows the company into the face, and that makes me even more angry. I notice this with the graphic artist who's an EPUler who doesn't have any orders anymore. I notice it at the Besel around the corner, at the night gastronomy, at the Caterers, the hotel industry, the suppliers, the retail, the tour guides, the travel agencies, the textile laundry, the sports goods dealers. You all have something you don't know what it is: a thick minus in the account. You have to run to the bank director and say: I need an extension. I'm tense, I'm attacking, and I need liquidity. The government somehow promised it to me. I could perhaps live with a 50 percent replacement, but I'm going to get down to what you've announced in a PK in the last few days, namely a 30 percent withdrawal bonus with a 60 000 euro cover. You know, I don't think that this 60 000 euro lid can only be something for the host around the corner, not for a sports goods dealer, not for a hotel that makes 3 million euros in sales in winter. This is a very decisive thing, and that would be what I always wish if you spoke of an epaulette: that this epaulette also applies to the opposition parties, to those who come out of practice. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] What we want is quite simply reliability that the announcements will also be realized, planning and, above all, understanding for those who are still thinking every day at night, how to secure their existence and maintain their life's work. I do not believe that you do not want to understand, but I now know, Minister of Finance, that perhaps you do not understand. This is the problem of entrepreneurship. I need more empathy here, including from you, and not just announcements. Nobody knows what the bonus is, and I think we need a strict policy. I called Franz Patscheider. Franz Patscheider is a sports dealer from Serfaus. In December 2020, as measured by the comparison period December 2019, he made 8 percent sales! He has a huge camp, even a much bigger camp than I am as an entrepreneur in tourism, he doesn't know where to go with his goods, he has 10 outlets. He'll get 60,000 euros now. Of that, he says, he cannot even pay the short work, but he should order the goods for winter 2021 today or tomorrow, perhaps until the end of the month. That's dramatic, because he can't. He can only say he has to close. I talked to Mrs Marchendorfer, who is in the textile business, in a farm that cleans laundry for hotel businesses. They don't have a job at all, they don't get in the way at all, but they have huge costs in their machines. Nor does it amount to 60 000 euros. This is what really surprises me: that those farms that are in debt still only get promises. I admit that the tourism sector is very affected, but the indirect ones are even more affected. That's why I'm going to: The promises must now be fulfilled, the aid must flow now, otherwise we will have a megapleite wave in 2021. It is essential for me, Minister of State, that a completely different system be addressed. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] As an entrepreneur, I am very willing to make my contribution to this, and we are aware that we cannot simply turn the key around and lock it up. We are aware that we cannot heat the coffee machine that the kitchen remains cold. But what we need now is measures to secure our liquidity. What entrepreneurs need is liquidity. I shall come back to Mr Matznetter's request last week, which was rejected by the government parties. Before I come to our constructive proposals, let me say one more thing: According to EU standards, we should carry out 6 750 000 vaccinations by July. That would be 45 000 vaccines a day – I said this morning. The vaccinations are the so-called game changers we are talking about, so that we do not have exactly the same economic disaster in autumn, so that businesses do not experience the economic disasters that affect them. In the next 150 days, 45 000 vaccinations should take place every day. If you don't make it today, you'll have 90 000 tomorrow. The central problem of this government is that this is not happening. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] At this point I would like to repeat the quote I brought this morning. The Federal Chancellor gave an interview to the “Standard” in July 2020 and talked about the southern EU neighbours as “states that are broken in their systems”. I think when it comes to vaccinations, you can see how broken our system is: Federalism, protectionism, forgery! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That is the fatality, and therefore people no longer believe that you can make these vaccinations, 6 750 000. [[Abg. Loacker: Vaccinate the mayors first!]] – If you're immunising all the mayors, then at 45 000 daily vaccinations you'll have every 2,500 mayors in one and a half hours, we'll also have the discussion gone; maybe a good move. What we need, however, Mr Federal Minister, are short-term and medium-term solutions. I come again to talk about liquidity. I would like to quote from the request for the withdrawal bonus before I come to the liquidity crisis – that is particularly important. My colleague, Mr Matznetter, will be responsible for this as a tax advisor. It says that the application for the new withdrawal bonus is linked to a disbursement of the turnover replacement. In the application, it states literally: Note: If a lockdown replacement has been requested, but has not yet been paid, a loss replacement (debt bonus) must be expected with the application until the lockdown turnover has been paid out. - Quote. That means simplified: We'll wait anyway until June. Only: Then many farms die, then there are many unemployed, that is the problem. That's why we have to take care of ourselves now! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is what was requested last week, namely that a 50 percent account payment should be granted immediately in the current fixed cost grant in order to strengthen liquidity, and only in retrospect. The only way to save jobs is to create liquidity and prolongation for businesses so that they are liquid! [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] That is why I would like to come forward with the necessary short-term measures. On the one hand, this is to counter the liquidity crisis by means of rapid measures, namely the extension of tax subsidies by June 2021. They didn't know, and I didn't know how long the crisis takes. We have already extended the crisis and tax reliefs, of 15. January into March, and now these lessons have to be extended until June. In addition, the loss return on operating losses is to be extended to 2017 – that is necessary – and, as has been said, to grant a 50 percent account payment in the fixed cost grant. Only in this way do you deliver liquidity, only in this way it is possible for me to have a little room again, only this way it may be possible for me not to call my bank boss on a daily basis – this is actually my true boss – and to say: You, I need a little something again, or: Let me exceed, I have to pay interest, but I don't care about it, mainly, I can continue to prolong my employees' short work! – But not afterwards, because in June it is too late, and that is the core problem. That also means, as you always argue, what you have done in the election campaign from party political raeson: In fact, you have to provide the right aid and finally use the aid framework properly. Why did you not choose the disaster paragraph for a state of disaster? 107 para. 2 lit. b? You would not be bound by the 800 000 euros. Maybe you'll raise to 1.6 million euros now, but I'll tell you something: In the case of a 100% liability by the ÖHT, which is also present, many hotels with 800 000 euros are already under attack. That's the problem. Many large sports goods dealers are already at the attack at €800 000 because they have to order the goods because they need the help now. This is the subject you need to address, and I invite you to a round table with the bank representatives who say of themselves: We're sitting in the same boat, we have to do this! – The bridge credits are already due at the first rate in spring 2021, although the companies do not make any revenues. This is the next crisis that comes upon us. I'm not saying now that you need to shoot through the country with the November money Bazoka again, but you have to act targetedly and do something right away. It's important for me to emphasize: Criticized is not that you help, but how you do it, because this action is practical. I would also like to mention that even your party colleague, Mr Hörl, says that the aid now has to flow quickly. Even with 60,000 euros is not much done on a cable car, is it? This is not even half of the daily sales of day tickets. I think you'll have to learn to dance to Charleston if you've already unpacked the hammer. You also have to be much faster in the process, it cannot be that the Cofag has only 12 employees to finish these applications. Yes, you have this outsourced, and I would like to know what agencies you outsourced that you have entrusted with doing this. They need capital strengthening measures. What you need to do now, especially in the foreign capital-intensive sectors such as tourism and trade, is to strengthen equity. They must establish a balance sheet. They also need to force capital-strengthening measures, with risk capital provision. Minister Schramböck, and, I believe, you, too, said in June that this must be implemented. It has not yet been implemented, not even addressed. And: The most important point, including in 2021, is for me an investment fund. The SME participation fund must now be created, especially if Mezzanine capital, an equity fund, needs to be invested. But I am also willing to talk about it when it comes to the question of closing or rehabilitating? Currently Vice-chanc Kogler is Minister of Justice, but I know that there have not even been talks about a modern insolvency law so far. But that would be particularly important now – 2022 it will be too late! This is what we need now, and I believe that the Chamber of Commerce could be very easy to handle with its money – a cost of consulting. This could be done by the Chamber of Commerce, since I do not even need you to be interested, Mr. Finanzminister – the consultants who are now responsible for renovations and support companies are particularly important. We therefore require an advisory fee in our request. Of course we also need to adapt the short work, but we have already talked about it today. The medium and long-term steps must, of course, include data transparency and expert evaluation of assistance. It is especially important for a party such as NEOS, but also for every entrepreneur to have a transparent representation. I'd like that if you were working on an shoulder clasp. We have already discussed the cost factor of work with the Minister of Labour today, and this too must be drastically reduced. Finally, I have an important point that I would like to share with all of you – I am a little awake now, but still tired –: Mr. Federal Minister, I do not wish those here in the house – they do not come first anyway – but all citizens out there do not want health, but a speedy vaccination. I would also like to offer you our constructive examples that the EIA and the Greens are voting in favour of our proposal today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e54508	Mr Blümel, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, has been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e54530	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! Estimated Sepp Schellhorn! I have to admit, I have had to wait for a while for the jumping point of your speech, for Hammer, Charleston, and so on. But I think I've heard what you're talking about: the concern about the economic location, the concern of many companies that really don't have it easy in this situation. However, I have still not been able to determine in what areas we have so different views on the demands and implementation of the measures, even in the light of the justification of the urgent request. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] I can now only address a few things I have written during your speech. A 50 percent advance payment on the fixed-cost grant should be made? – There is even an 80 percent advance on the fixed-cost grant, you just have to apply for it! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] We should have applied the EU's disaster articles? This is exactly what we have done in Europe since spring – after that, the Commission felt that it was no longer a natural disaster. By the way, it was the NEOS that meant: No, the Commission does not need to raise the EU support framework, which is sufficient. At the time, I did not feel much support from your party to advertise to the EU Commission for increasing the frameworks, quite the contrary! What's going on now? – Other countries also insist that the demand we have made is correct, and we get signals that these frameworks will finally be increased in the near future. You say that liquidity is necessary, but at the same time you want that no more November sugars are distributed, and you are annoyed that you have to justify an 80 percent revenue replacement – even there is a contradiction, dear Sepp Schellhorn! As far as the Cofag is concerned, quite honestly: Twelve employees – is that too much now, is that too little? I don't know exactly what you want to go on. If you want an increase in staff, I don't understand what the basic attitude of NEOS is. There is an agency that handles the call center: Depending on how many calls there are right now, it will turn on or off. If you as NEOS would perhaps sit in the advisory board in which you could see every single business case, you do not need to ask this question here, dear Sepp Schellhorn! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] There were many other topics involved. I would like to come to a few figures because they represent the best of the situation as regards the disbursements in the various aid measures: The fixed-cost grant has already paid more than half a billion euros to 55 000 applicants. We have now succeeded in finally raising the lid from the EU to EUR 800 000 to EUR 1 million by taking the de minimis rule into account. I expect the Commission to increase in the next few weeks, which would go up to a doubling of this framework, just as we have called for from the very beginning. 95 percent of applicants had the money in the account within 10 days of their sales, and 2.4 billion euros had been paid to almost 130 000 applicants. Now I don't just want to look for comparisons with other countries, but benchmarking is also something in the economy that you typically do to analyze how good you are. If I look at Germany, where exactly the same thing has been announced at the same time, where no money still flows, where the aid is now being remodeled – away from a turnover replacement to a loss cover – then I am really glad, even for the companies that we are here in Austria, where this has worked very, very fast. I thank everyone who worked! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] If you don't believe it, I understand that there may sometimes be scepticism between the parties if the proposals are not one too one, but please read this week the German “Handelsblatt”, the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung”! It says what makes Austria better than Germany. Please try to understand! I'm ready to look at every single case you say doesn't work. We are learning from the past and have always done this for the last few months. It also works much better with us, which you also granted us a few months ago, better Sepp. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] As far as the benefits are concerned: You're quite right, we just extended the tax charges a few months ago, that was just before Christmas. In addition, we have also launched our own payment model: Tax debts do not have to be broken down as before within one year with default rates of 4.5 percent above the base rate, but can be paid out over a period of up to three years at a much cheaper interest rate. The outage bonus de facto fulfills everything you have now criticized and demanded: This is a quick liquidity promotion, which does not even require an application by a tax advisor. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] As an entrepreneur, you can apply with four or five clicks, indicate the amount you took in the previous month, and receive the benefit paid within a few days. All this comes or is already there, all this will work, and you yourself have said that it has worked quickly in the past. I come to a point that has honestly affected me a little. I do not know if Mr Loacker will speak later on – I would be very interested because we had many discussions on economic aid and various proposals, which can be made as otherwise. The loss return, for example, has been a good idea, we have implemented it very quickly, more generous than Germany, for example. In all the proposals, we can discuss whether they are accurate or whether they differ a little, but what NEOS have proposed is one thing: precisely wrong: those companies that prevent unemployment that use the instrument of short-time work in order not to send workers into unemployment, then to punish them by increasing the cost. This is certainly not going to happen with us, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e54651	Members of the European Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e54672	Mr President! High house! Federal Minister Blümel! I don't know where I'm supposed to start after these titrations about everything being so great anyway. I might start with the following: I've met with many entrepreneurs in the last few weeks, with many entrepreneurs. These were people from small, medium-sized and large companies as well as from industrial companies, there were bank presidents and many other representatives from the economy. I've networked, exchanged and thought about what's useful and what's not. In one case, I believe that you said something in the Committee on Budgets yesterday, which I think is right, namely: It's complicated – yes, it's natural, but you're the Minister of Finance! Your job would be to implement the complicated one in such a way that it is easily accessible to entrepreneurs in that country. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course it's like this: If you look at this crisis situation management that you have, you can see that you have put a lot of value and a lot of focus on one, namely to be well staged by your PR departments. My impression is and remains: You have underestimated the overall situation and you still underestimate it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] Let us come to the very specific concerns expressed by the entrepreneurs, with whom I, as I said, was really much, much in exchange! The one sentence I have heard most often in these last few weeks – Mr President, forgive me! I just have to quote him here, says: It doesn't know any more Sau. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] - That's what you hear. There is complete confusion. This is paired with anger and of course it is also paired with existential fears. What did I hear from the small farms, from the EPUlers? - Well, they say: I need money, liquidity. That's the same as with the big and middle by the way, but it's really about the little ones hanging in there with all their savings, and then you hear: I still didn't get a payout of the sales replacement. Or: I have just received the payment for December; where is my November rate? Or: I got an e-mail: I need a tax advisor now so that I can be helped; I can't afford that because then, of course, my money is gone, which I get paid out. - We hear that every day. Then, of course, there are the larger companies that face quite different challenges. In fact, these 800 000 euros, which my colleague Sepp Schellhorn has already said, are no longer sufficient. You remember: The aid is covered by EUR 800 000. In any case, Mr Finanzminister claims this, and he also claims – and I would like to address it now – that he agrees with the Commission that this will be changed. These are the facts: You have now told us a few times in interviews that you have joined the Germans and the Danes, so that at least the de minimis funding – for all those who do not know – can cumulate with the 800 000 euros, with this ceiling, so that you can reach at least 1 million euros. [[Federal Minister Blümel:... this is so wrong!]] – You said that on Sunday in the interview. Then you said it wrong. I really wonder what you're discussing here. The Danes have been doing this for a long time, the Germans have been doing this for a long time, and even the Slovenians have increased to 1 million euros before Christmas. I don't know if you've been looking for it. I hope so. A further clarification on the aid limits of EUR 800 000. You have just said again that you said that you would have wished that we as NEOS would have helped you, so that the Commission could have more pressure to increase the limits. Yes, seriously, my claim to a finance minister is that he is able to apply for the help properly. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It really is about how my colleague Sepp Schellhorn has already done: During a lockdown – this is important: not when there is no lockdown, but during a lockdown – you can of course refer to the disaster paragraphs. Now, if you're back, That's not possible, say – you like to make calls with your Danish colleagues – then ask them because they brought it together. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] One more comment on the loss compensation, because you always say that all this is not possible: The loss replacement is not cumulative with the fixed cost grant phase two. I honestly do not understand why, because the Commission has even called for these grants to be combined in order to ensure the highest possible flexibility for entrepreneurs and businesses. But that didn't happen, and I'm really wondering: Is this another fluency mistake? [[Interference of Federal Minister Blümel.]] – You can make it right afterwards. I really want to work to ensure that these aid can be combined, as the Commission has indicated. Unfortunately, it is certain: They have led Austria worse through the crisis. In the meantime, this is also seen in a lot of numbers that we have. Yes, it is complicated – to return to it – but you have made it complicated. I'd like to tell you: We NEOS have made a urgent request here today, a urgent request with packages, where we really – and I am now with you – have discussed too many things in the Financial Committee that they would make sense, and we have not been so far from each other. What would be important to me is that we go into a rigorous planning so that there really is a strategy for the next few months. We have already heard from the Commission that it will be extended by December 2021. That's good and right, because the crisis will take us even longer, and that's what it needs. That means: Go into planning, and also into implementation-oriented planning – it must also be possible to implement it; that is not always quite certain – so that we can really help the entrepreneurs who need it! Yes, we have differences of opinion, and yes, we are rubbing ourselves, my opinion and my conviction is: That makes it better. I really wish myself today: Don't just wipe it off the table! Argument! Look at it! I don't want to use the word epaulette anymore, but let's work together and really see that we get out of the crisis together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e54751	Mr Haubner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e54772	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, Sepp Schellhorn, it connects us a lot: We are both from Salzburg, we both come from family businesses, we have a big heart for entrepreneurship, we have sons who are also entrepreneurs. So we are in many ways of the same tribe. Of course, what distinguishes us a little is access. My access to one thing is: You also have to be consistent with your program. We in the Federal Government and here, our Members, have a clear programme, which is how we on the one hand accompany entrepreneurs from the crisis and how we want to support them with the offensive measures after the crisis. This is clearly what our programmes are doing. If I read your urgent request exactly from the front to the back, I will also get a little tired, namely of your contradictions, dear Joseph. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] That's where I have to say quite honestly: If you write that our measures are not correct and that “the economic aid is very much indebted” and the next one is to propose a “renewal of the amounts by June”, then there is a contradiction, and that is even two lines below. If, on the one hand, you want to disband the Chamber of Commerce and, on the other hand, say that the Chamber of Commerce should pay it or take over the advice, then there is another contradiction. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Moved by the hair!]] – Please let us stay objective and let us look at it very carefully! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] We all have a big goal, really. There has been the biggest crisis for decades for the economy, for entrepreneurs and for the labour force. Now we have to see that we are helping them together. Now there is a bunch of measures, and you criticize that when they are fast, they are not target-proof, and when they are target-proof, they are not fast. - That doesn't fit! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Let's take a look at the numbers! The Minister of Finance has already done so. I mention two examples, Andreas Ottenschlager will then mention several more: If 90 percent of most subsidies are already done, paid out, then I know it's about us taking care of the others, about those entrepreneurs that haven't gotten them yet. I'll tell you: I am in contact with many, not only from my home country, but from all over Austria. I know a lot of people, they call, and we're trying to help everyone. We do every case, because every businessman is really important to us because every businessman creates jobs and sees that Austria is doing well. That is why I am so emotional, simply because of the fact that I have a big heart for the whole. You can't always take those who just have a problem. They are very important, because the problem is coming from somewhere, but there are a lot of those we have accompanied, which we have supported and who also very much appreciate, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] If you still hear – you will explain – that you want to pay those who continue to use short-time work with a penalty tax, namely that they should either pay for an increase in the cost or more income tax, then you have to break it on the tongue: Those who secure jobs for their employees should pay a penalty for this. You have to let that break on your tongue! I think they're suffocating, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We're all tired of this virus, it's bothering us all. He is fully aware of us, but we still need to take our measures to ensure that we continue to move forward in the health and economic sectors. I already said, we have a very clear plan: Accompanying crisis with support, ensuring liquidity. That is what we are doing with the support, with the interest payments and with the grants. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] In the second phase, we need to force investment and innovation for the site. We are already on the right track with the investment premium. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Loacker.]] Entrepreneurs have invested over 30 billion euros and we have supported them with 3 billion euros. These are mainly small and micro-enterprises, especially in the areas of digitization and eco-logisation, in other words, in the very priorities that we have set ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the facts! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Germany has already been strengthened today. You said earlier: Look at Germany, everything goes so well, everything goes so fast. Now the Germans look at us because we have developed a system with which 90 percent of the cases have already been handled. That's where we did a lot of things right. We are constantly improving what we have not done properly. We take every criticism seriously, we take up every suggestion and try to inculcate it accordingly in this existing system. The Economic Chamber's hardening fund is a good example. That's where it got a little gnashed at the beginning, but today it works perfectly. It is good that there is this and that already 212,000 people have received support. More than 950 million euros have been paid. For the 96 per cent completion rate, ladies and gentlemen, I think we should thank the employees of the Chamber of Commerce once, because of course every individual case is not quite easy, but is done perfectly. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer.]] This is a very difficult time, we all know: I say thank you to the entrepreneurs for their courage, for their endurance, for their endurance. Under all these premises, the Federal Government is fully aware of its responsibility, the Federal Chancellor is a very large fighter for the economy, the Minister of Finance also knows this, he supports us and is always on board when it comes to securing the basis for entrepreneurs and ensuring every job accordingly. So if we're already straining the shoulder clasp, I can only say: Let us see that we are using the measures we have effectively and that we are improving them there and where it is necessary! If it is a good proposal – but do not ask for a penalty tax for short work – then we are also in the process of being successful together again. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e54883	Member of the European Parliament, Mr Matznetter, has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e54905	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Unfortunately, the subject is a very serious one. I am also grateful to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for their urgent request: It is 5 minutes before 12 o'clock or for many of the farms as early as 12 o'clock. You can say: I don't care, there are fewer farms. The only problem is that we have fewer jobs and higher unemployment with every farm we have less. It would normally be expected to have a serious discussion here. But what did you hear? – To the previous item on the agenda, the tourist speaker of the ÖVP, Gabriel Obernosterer, the German Finance Minister calls Gernot Blümel and asks for technical assistance. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Light peace.]] Fortunately, Olaf Scholz does not do this, because in Germany the economy is only 3.9% broken in, with us by 8 percent. We had more than 110 000 unemployed last year, the Germans 450 000, which corresponds to half of what happened to us. Maybe he just called to help, and he understood it as well as the six zeros in the budget. That's not how it is, ladies and gentlemen. We have to do something seriously, we are bad in the European comparison and it makes no sense to give such speeches – we try, we make it better, there was a boy – dear Peter Haubner. This is a boy since the beginning of the pandemic, you've ignored everything the people have proposed to you. [[Complaints with SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] We said: Stop depriving the company! She has been experimenting around since the beginning, the Minister of Finance cannot even list the number of measures on television – who has seen it on Sunday. Whoever believes he needs “the daily press” for the satire, I can teach him that he can now use reality for it. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[a table with a listing under the heading “Current information on Lockdown sales” in front of the speaker’s desk]] One simply loads the homepage of the BMF and looks at the list of questions and answers on the topic of economic assistance. By the way, this is how many pages go on, that is real satire, 30 measures! - No, one, dear Peter Haubner! [[pointing to the panel]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] What we have proposed from the beginning: Reimbursement for the losses that have occurred – we have been in the law for 70 years, we could have left that –; expansion for businesses that are indirectly affected; immediate disbursement with accreditation and billing with tax charges. You wouldn't have needed the poor employees of the Chamber of Commerce, you shouldn't have built a new organization like the Cofag, all of this you wouldn't have needed. They could have paid out faster, saved more businesses, and in the end, there could never have been a transfer, since the claim to earnings is maximum that one has less due to the impact of the crisis than in the case of a default insurance. The insurance companies also pay no more than what they would have had if the disaster had not occurred. It would have been as simple as it should have been to listen to us once, not even to say no to any request, not to postpone any request that lies in the committee. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Fireplaces: Bravo!]] It's incredible. They want to sue Mr. Querfeld – for a long time ÖVP Federal Economic Officer – who has the Café Landtmann, a traditional house in the city, now because he uses something that has been in the law since 1811, namely that you do not have to pay in the event of a disaster and in the case of a disease when you are locked. I made a request nine months ago that you make an authentic interpretation so that there is no need for court proceedings. - No, nothing! ÖVP and Greens: Nothing! Only Minister Alma Zadić has always said that she cannot prevail because of the coalition partner. What do we have now? – A coffee house, a traditional house is in danger because any foundation in the crisis of a closed coffee house absolutely wants the 100 000 euros. When will you wake up, ladies and gentlemen? Listen with this defense of all things, take a positive request and do it! Choose, for example, in the next few days – Authentic interpretation – as far as possible: As long as there is the disease and the coffee house is locked, the landlord gets no rent. What is the problem, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP? They're not the homeowner and the real estate association. The foundations can also bear part of the crisis, why only the small merchant, the gastronomy, the hotelier? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The unemployed, resulting from this, the workers who have lost their job, may have crisis costs, but not the foundations of the high gentlemen? – Please, improve in this area! I don't want a real satire, I prefer the daily press, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e54993	Member of the Fuchs has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e55015	Mr President. Estimated Minister of Finance! Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary! Dear Austrians! Chaosmanagement, that is the foreign exchange of this federal government, on many, many levels. This begins with the Covid-19 Impf Plan, which is actually not a plan, but a pure disaster, our colleague Erwin Angerer has already carried it out today, and ends with the bureaucratic Covid-19 assistance measures and the lack of planning certainty for entrepreneurs. The main criticism of the liberals remains that the compensation provisions of the Epidemic Act have been suspended. This has massive disadvantages, especially for the many small entrepreneurs, for individual entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs have no right to financial assistance, but are degraded to bitters and alms recipients, without the possibility of appeal. Mr Matznetter has already mentioned it: Entrepreneurs also receive no full compensation. We are calling for full merit from the beginning, through the financial management and not through the Chamber of Commerce. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] There is also no financial equal treatment for small and large enterprises, especially the intransparent Cofag is a black box in this regard. Therefore, a parliamentary Covid-19 subcommittee, which is equipped with appropriate control rights, needs to be set up. This is about the Austrian tax money, and there has never been any damage to transparency and control. However, the lack of concept of the Federal Government is also continuing with the opening concept for the economy. For this the Federal Government has no concept at all, and without a concept there is no planning certainty for the economy, but it is important and, by the way, an important location factor. This inconsistency of the Federal Government is an expression for the entrepreneurs, but also for the workers. The lockdown must finally have an end, the country must lock up again. But we also need a future perspective for people. Where are the concepts for the urgently needed reforms? We had a massive need for reform before Corona, not just now. Where is the tax structure reform? What about a recodification of tax law? What about a simplification of staff billing? What about the uniform service provider charge? The reduction in the tax rate and the massive increase in NOVA are neither a structural reform nor a tax reform. The Austrian economy also has a massive problem with equity capital. Less equity, of course, also means a higher crisis vulnerability. There is an urgent need for concepts, including in tax matters, in order to improve the equity structure of entrepreneurs in a sustainable way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Federal Government must finally ensure planning security and also a future perspective, and the Federal Government must lock this country up again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e55078	Member of the European Parliament is entitled to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e55099	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! I will respond immediately to the request and the proposals contained therein, and I will say why they do not convince me. But before that, I would like to say something positive: The fact that I can address proposals at all has to do with the fact that many concrete proposals are in this proposal, compared to others that we have already discussed. I want to highlight this, it is actually a positive thing, even if there are contradictions. I always like that. But I would disagree with you when I analyse the status quo. They are quoting a Bloomberg study in which the best ten countries you compare with and say that we would be as bad, majority countries in Asia, such as China, South Korea, Singapore, which dramatically intervene in the fundamental rights of their people: mandatory apps, complete GPS surveillance, daily control calls. I strongly hope that we do not want to compare our epidemic management with the management of these countries. [[Abg. Worm: No more missing!]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] However, what is already apparent, in a study published in the press today, is that in Austria, compared to other countries in Europe, we focus on non-refundable subsidies and, with more than EUR 3 800 per head, we even count among the top riders. I therefore address this because you say in the request that we should also make an effort to get the over-indebtedness of the companies under control in order to preserve and strengthen equity. It is precisely with these measures, which depend on grants that are not repayable, that this is guaranteed; in that case, it is proved by this study. Quasi as a guiding principle You write – and I quote – your request: "The last thing we need is an extension of the current economic policy. We need a restart." – Mr Haubner has already suggested a paragraph below which you propose measures which are primarily extensions and continuations of the existing measures of the Federal Government, such as: Support is intended to be extended, the loss return is to be extended and the fixed cost grant is to be extended. – This is not exactly a restart, but – and I agree with you – the confirmation that the Federal Government’s actions are generally correct and that it can be partially supplemented and adapted, but it is generally the right way to get out of the crisis. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP]] [[Abg. Krainer: The argument is an intellectual insult!]] I would have shared one of their opinions in September, namely that it can be useful – for this there are several reasons – to make these rapid unbureaucratic aid, such as revenue replacement, immediately and then, in the end, to track down the more specific, impact-proof, such as the fixed-cost grant. However, what happened then was the dramatic epidemiological situation in November, which was surprising. It turned out that it was right that the Bazoka still had fire power at the end of the year. We used them at the right time. That is why the order of action was correct from my point of view. Last but not least, on a subject that has accompanied us for a long time now: They are making a great effort to put a little bit of smoldering in the face of economic aid, which, from my point of view, is being done very professionally in general. The daily greeting of marble animals in this context is the claim that the Cofag, which handles the fixed-cost grant, would be a black box, i.e. a black, opaque box. The truth is: It's a transparent box with doors open across the line, and on the sign it says: Dear Mr Schellhorn, dear Mrs. Double Bauer, come Please come in and look at everything! But they hold their hands in front of the eyes and wonder that it is black. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e55161	Mr Loacker. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Are you looking forward to it? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e55183	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to thank all my colleagues Black for their disagreements, because this is a form of debate that can be very well held if one does not share the same opinion. Nobel was that, I think – you can clap. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] On the question of short-time work – Mr Haubner and the Minister of Finance have already mentioned it – we say that if the next phase comes, then it must look different than it has looked so far, I would like to do something: In April, the Germans had the highest level of short-time work with 6 million short-time workers and now stand at a tenth of them, at about 600 000. Austria had the highest level of 1.3 million short-time workers in April and now still has a third with over 400 000. Clearly, it has been much lower in Germany than with us. This, of course, also has structural reasons, because we have a higher proportion of tourism, but not only, but also: The short work is particularly favourable for businesses in Austria. They have practically zero extra costs per hour if they are in short work. This is also okay for a short period and was safe in March/April the right way. However, for a long-term facility which has now become short-time work, it is necessary to consider whether it is possible to increase the reliability and control mechanism, the regulation mechanism. Control in the sense of going and looking into the books doesn't work. You don't find the short-term fraudster if you don't put in front of the store a controller that records which employees come and go when – or only in the rarest cases. Every one of you, ladies and gentlemen, has certainly received calls over the past few weeks and months, and to this day again and again, drawing attention to the fact that businesses misuse short-time work. The figures compared to Germany also show that more employees are in Austria than are necessary in short work. This does not mean that, as Mr Haubner has explained and, of course, clearly interpreted the wrong way, we suggest that the companies throw out these employees, on the contrary: These employees, who are unnecessarily in the short-time work, belong again to the full-time! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This requires an incentive, because if it does not matter for my company whether the employee is in short work or not, I will leave him in the short work now and then we will look further. – This also removes potential from the labour market. Ask the people who really are in business! I'll call where, and then I'll say, We are in short work, the employee is only back on Friday, and so on. I cannot continue to do business even if we have so much short work that we avoid the dynamics of the labour market and the economy. One could know that, but one does not want to know that. If you can hit the NEOS, this is always a welcome opportunity, no matter which cult there is. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] - I'm not sensitive. I would like to say that I do a lot of things, and I think it is very good for the EIA, because it will only be distributed if one has met them at a sensitive point. [[Further call of the Abg. Haubner.]] It has also said Minister of Labour Kocher that we need to find incentives for businesses to get their people back from short work. We need to get out of the short work, he said in an interview. Of course, short-time work is too cheap, and in the long run it also stops structural change, because, in conjunction with short-time work, billions of supported businesses make healthy competition and withdraw workers who would be needed in full-time elsewhere. Therefore, we would like the AMS to teach people who are in short work in free full-time jobs. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] What we still need in the labour market to get out of the hole, of course, will be recruitment promotions and combined wages, without which it will probably not be possible, but these are only partial aspects. What ÖVP likes to hide, what the Minister of Finance conceals, and what the business owner Haubner conceals, is that social security has announced not in retrospect, but now requires the duration of the contributions. While our proposal aims to restore the operation afterwards, when it has recovered, a little tax, to return to the taxpayer a little what the company has received before, the SVS now, still in the middle of the crisis, wants to make the hours of contributions. And that's an economic Federal Officer! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This incompetent Federal Economic Functionary Lehner is now still at the head of the umbrella association of social security funds. You really don't have to be able to do anything to get to the top of social security; there is no qualification requirement. [[Call the ÖVP:Hello! Incredible!]] In addition to the replacement benefits: The government is supposed to be helping so generously. Ask the companies whose employees have been sent to quarantine, which should now receive a replacement for wage costs under § 32 Epidemiegesetz! Companies that had employees in quarantine in March 2020 have not yet seen any replacement for it. There are federal states who do not yet have a single notice outside, and there are federal states that are ready to demand in a law opinion that the term for the federal state should be extended to twelve months, because they do not comply with the modes. That's unheard of! They don't get money to which the companies are entitled because your government bureaucracy doesn't get it in line. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] To the Cofag, which is supposed to be as great as the Minister said: You get as a company if you make a request at the Cofag, no notice you can challenge because you feel it is more to you or something else. If you don't get something from the Cofag as a company you believe is yours, you have to sue it at the Civil Court – a company that has the water up to the neck! This is the aid policy that this government is implementing.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e55261	Mr Ottenschlager is speaking on behalf of the PPE Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e55283	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators! I too would like to acknowledge, in principle, that this request has led to a constructive debate, and that should be said, because at the end of the day it is always about keeping up with the exchange, perhaps also a competition for the ideas of political decision-makers – so much so. I would like to say no to my previous speaker, Gerald Loacker. I am an active entrepreneur myself. It has been a bit like a flat-rate prejudgment by entrepreneurs that they are supposed to use a means such as short-time work, so to speak, in order to impose a criminal tax on it. We refuse to do so. We really do not think this proposal makes sense and will simply reject it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and Deputies Lukas Hammer and Jakob Schwarz.]] Before I come to some of the proposals in the proposal, I would like to take a very brief look at the explanatory statement. It's already been spoken of. The Minister of Finance, the government, is facing a Hütt policy, as it is formulated here. This is actually the case in this proposal. On the one hand, it is said that we will have a massive re-indebtedness. This is true, but at the same time it is proof that Austria is spending immensely high support for businesses, for entrepreneurs, for the working people, but also for the unemployed in that country. This logically leads us to have a correspondingly high re-indebtedness. But it will, and I am deeply convinced of it, also lead us to get out of this crisis better than everyone else, ladies and gentlemen. [[Weratschnig and Mr Jakob Schwarz were in favour of the ÖVP.]] The comparison is made with regard to the economic situation or economic collapse, for example, that we have a stronger breakdown than Germany. But then it is never said that, for example, we have a higher share of the tourism industry. Thus, together with the companies indirectly concerned, the latter has a higher share of gross domestic product. And, no, this affects us in Austria in times like this, of course, more than many other countries in Europe, because we are a tourist country. We are also trying to give massive support to all the aid measures that are already being implemented – so much about this and the facts. On the one hand, I am criticised – I come back to the accusation of Hü-hott policy – to be too bureaucratic, then too fast and too little hit-proof again. This was addressed by Peter Haubnershon. I cannot understand this criticism. Estimated colleague Schellhorn, you yourself said in an interview in November, when the revenue replacement was lifted very quickly from baptism: I'm impressed! Ratzfetz, a few clicks and I have the revenue replacement at the account. It was the goal that we quickly provide liquid funds for the companies concerned, and that was successful, ladies and gentlemen! [[Weratschnig and Mr Jakob Schwarz were in favour of the ÖVP.]] Now to the Cofag, which, apart from that, is in constant discussion: Jakob Schwarz has already formulated very well that she is not a black box. You are still cordially invited to cooperate in the advisory board. It is not only that one has insight through it, but also that one can make a contribution from the practice, how one might make certain things better. The invitation says I would really advise you to accept it. Now I come to a few facts, which are very important, the Minister for Finance has already mentioned them. Imagine: 115 000 applications in November, almost 1.9 billion euros paid – zero in Germany. In December 95 000 applications, 785 million euros paid. We achieved 95 percent sales in November, 90 percent in December. In the case of fixed-cost grant, there is a similar quota. Why do I say that? – Because it is important to know also in the discourse that the system works in principle and the processing is done. Of course, even that has already been mentioned, it is now our task to accompany those who may not have received any support for any reason that might be theirs. There are, of course, and this is known to those who deal with it, more complex cases that cannot be highly automated and handled at speed. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps a short time to promote recruitment: You can discuss this, also about what you are leading to digitization. This is, in fact, to a large extent taken into account with the investment premium in question. Summary: Yes, there are ideas that are formulated here, with which we can also identify ourselves, as the Federal Minister has already said, which are largely already in operation. Yes, we must do something to strengthen the equity ratio of companies. But what we certainly reject, especially in times like this, is a higher taxation of entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e55359	Mr Köchl has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e55382	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The NEOS have chosen a topic: “I like new confidence and confidence – better get out of the crisis” – because, as they are now working with the SPÖ Vienna, with the mayor of Vienna, I am in all cases more confident and confident than this federal government, which is composed of ÖVP and Greens. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have two points: Who pays for the crisis? And: Why do I think that wealth and inheritance tax should be treated as the problem of unemployment? I would also like to say a few words about the communities. In order to enable economic and social reconstruction after this corona crisis, 83 millionaires – worldwide – say that the taxes of the rich must be increased, and this must be done permanently. That is why it is so important to tax assets and not always income, because while wealthy households increasingly own corporate interests, securities and interest houses, the poorer half of the people may have a car, a home or a small house. That is why we say to Social Democrats: An asset tax must come to cope financially with this crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm a little worried about the new Minister of Labour Kocher. In an interview with the “standard” it says: "Employment and SPÖ demand an increase in unemployment benefit of 55 percent of the last earnings. They are against it.” It also asks which studies say something about this. He replied: ‘There are hardly any studies [...] for this purpose. We know, however, that the incentive to look for a job is falling if unemployment benefits are too high." I mean, that's a statement – it's been used by a turquoise government and it's got so deep-black views. It can't be that people who don't have a job should get less, although they can't do anything for it. It can't be! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is particularly true of women, people who earn little and work part-time. This cannot be the approach, nor can it be the intricacies of Mr Kocher. My intellect is: The unemployment benefit is not too high. If it's too high, then people should earn more. That no one else is going to work – who wants to stay home and just don't do anything? That's not what anyone wants. People are supposed to earn decently, then unemployment benefit is also eligible for funding for the others. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Zarits:... Mayor!]] A few more sentences to the municipalities: That's just not the package you put on. It is not possible, Mr Minister, that the communities themselves must pay by 2023! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Zarits.]] We will not be able to afford that – you can believe me, I have been in local politics for 30 years – because you must do something. ÖVP Mayors also tell me: Let's put pressure on her, we're not going to get through! I can't do that! And it's always the same. You do something, you decide something, but it's not finished. That is why I am now tabling the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's something very important. In Austria – and that at the end – something simply doesn't fit: It is true that the managers already make so much money, they have earned twenty times in 2003; now they earn the sixty times. That's not right, they have to pay taxes for it. The people who do not deserve much work today – you will not be able to afford it, Minister, because you will have to intervene and do something for the Austrian people. When I started politics, I always asked: What helps people? That's what I did well. Ask yourself that too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[16:25]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e55512	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. Member of the Angerer Chamber has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e55536	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Minister, many companies – I think that is undisputed – are in a very difficult situation. You come here today and say: In order to get support, they must make a request. - I think that's really cynical. Many of us receive dozens of e-mails from affected entrepreneurs, especially individual entrepreneurs, EPCs, SMEs who either hear nothing from the Cofag – hear nothing for a long time, hear nothing forever – or then get a rejection. They ask themselves here and say they should simply make a request – and they are still not entitled to apply. That's a fact once. The NEOS, with their urgent request at least a little thought and at least a positive position on this issue – “new confidence and confidence – better come out of the crisis” – have also considered short- and medium-term measures. We do not have to agree with all of these measures, but at least they have thought. One should be able to expect this from a management – as such I see the Austrian Federal Government, or, I am helping myself to see it as such. What you're doing is management by chaos and nothing else. You have no clear goal definition, you don't have a clear strategy and you don't have any comprehensible measures. In everything you attack, we miss it. There are a few management rules you should comply with. This is – point one –: A boss should also make a mistake. I have never experienced until now that the Federal Chancellor – as the head of this government – has once stood up to a mistake made by this government. He's the world champion in pushing responsibility. Secondly, You should listen to staff. When I see the Austrian population as an employee, I have to say: What you are doing is evidence of ignorance towards the Austrian population. And: You should think what you say, and act after that. What you're saying today is out of value tomorrow. There is a good quote – you could put it here – from a former German Chancellor, Konrad Adenauer, who meant: What do I care about yesterday's chatter? – This statement could be changed by the Federal Government and, above all, by the Federal Chancellor: What does the opinion of experts interest me? What is my interest in democracy? What is my interest in the Austrian Constitution? What is my interest in the Austrian economy? What do I care about the children and the subsequent generations of this country? What interests me is democracy and democracy? Freedom in this country? – This is the access of our Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What makes management outstanding? – One should know the difference between efficiency and effectiveness. They may be very efficient in holding press conferences. You do that really efficiently, you can't remember how many of them have been, and you don't know how many will be coming in the next few days. You do this really efficiently, but you are not effective, because what you announce today in a press conference is snow from yesterday. You should also listen to experts and perhaps use the resources you have. Now I come again to the issue of vaccination. To date, I have not heard from the government about how you stand as people who have already experienced this disease. There is a study by the University of Innsbruck that shows that the immunity of people who have undergone this disease persists and is usually better than through vaccination. I now quote from this study: “As a rule, from an immunisation point of view, the disease experienced is much more effective than a vaccination. This would save the Republic a lot of money and capacity for vaccination.” I wonder why not make an immune test, an antibody test before you just start immunizing. This would save us a lot of money and many capacities. People who have been through this disease, especially in the health sector, in nursing homes could be unnecessarily sent to the people and let them go to work. That's just not going to be done, and I wonder why. Now, if you change this to a winter sports resort – that might be interesting for colleagues Hörl – I think Ischgl is the safest winter sports resort in the world, because I know that more than 40 percent of people are immune because they have already experienced the disease. These would be positive signals, which could also be sent out once, instead of a winter sports resort like Ischgl, I say once to go through the mud and make a whole industry bad. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] What does the Austrian economy expect from this Federal Government? – It is safety and planning. Instead, you act completely incomprehensible. For example, they set up actions and propose to the people before Christmas: Buy vouchers, then you can redeem them when the lockdown is over! – However, the lockdown never ends, the trading companies remain closed. Aid packages for indirectly affected establishments are promised, which do not exist until today. Now there's the new fail bonus. Many entrepreneurs who have already looked at this failure bonus say: It doesn't fit for me again, or: He's far too low! – They simply take measures that do not allow companies to plan. A particularly affected industry – in addition to many others – is that of our gastronomy companies and innkeepers. In what one does to them, it's a miracle that they don't all despair and say: I won't do anything anymore! – I would therefore like to make a specific request for the gastronomy companies: [[Quoted print version removed]] In a company, the Supervisory Board would be responsible for dismissing the management if it fails to do so. In this case, I appeal again to the National Council, which I see as the Supervisory Board of the Federal Government: Release You're this federal government! It is unable to resolve and manage this crisis. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[16:32]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e55772	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Member of the European Parliament has been called upon to speak on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e55798	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear High House! Ladies and gentlemen, watch! “New confidence and trust – better get out of the crisis”: This is a good and important topic, and I have also expected a lot, but I was very sorry to hear Mr Schellhorn, who is now, I think, not in the hall at all. – very disappointed, because there was nothing to hear from confidence and confidence in his speech. My colleague, Mr Schwarz, has already mentioned this: We have different ideas about that. I would like to add one important point, which is a little too short: It was quoted the Bloomberg ranking. From my point of view, it is almost cynical to give human life a price, to compare a value, to invest and cost of economic aid, to weigh up measures with human life. That is not my understanding of the value of life! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, apart from that, I would like to focus on the points in the request that I think are good. First: I find advice for companies good and this is already happening. The Chamber of Commerce offers advice. In all the chambers of the country, companies are advised, not only those who are members but all companies. In the next few days, an online tool will also be added. I would also like to add another point: Mr Matznetter has makated about the answers on the Ministry's homepage on the relevant questions. One could also say: Thank you, Minister, for all these answers. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Secondly, Close or clean? – We are working on a restructuring directive. This is an important issue and we are working on it. It is about how companies that are stuck in a dead end can continue. We know that there have been 40 percent less insolvency than usual last year. Insolvency is a normal part of economic life, i.e. there will be insolvency, there will also have to be a certain recovery effect. We want to offer the companies a perspective by providing them with framework conditions under which restructuring is well possible. It'll come. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Digitalisation is a very important issue. In this context, I would like to mention the investment premium, and I believe that all those who work in the economy will have heard from economic operators how well this works – 14 percent of the aid for investment in digitalization. Last year, 500 million euros were paid in grants for digitalization alone, i.e. a total of 3.5 billion euros were invested in this area. Another billion was invested in ecological measures. So this is a great example of how business and climate protection can fit together: Companies invest in digitalization. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Trust and confidence: Our industry, our economy, seems to lack optimism, our colleague Schellhorn. In today’s “Kurier” you can read: 2021, i.e. this year, is expected to be 4.1 percent economic growth, taking into account the current lockdown and also the prospects for tourism. Our focus will be on forward-looking economic development, we want to launch the economic engine and strengthen our efforts towards qualification and employment. The focus is on care, digitization and, as mentioned above, climate protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e55879	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e55901	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear founders! Hello, start-ups! You need determination, courage, riskyness. One should also be able to deal with uncertainties, not to be discouraged by setbacks. You have to endure thirst. You have to be able to deal with things that develop differently. If the rules of the game change, you must not cut the hat, and you should not despair if you have no more transparency. Does the characteristics that founders need describe? - Yes. But we need these skills, especially if we have to put up with the funding bureaucracy of our government. Knowledge of astrophysics and a bit of quantum mechanics can't hurt either, because it's easier to get into the topic of black holes. It may then be easier to understand how applications can disappear or how they can at the same time be brought in incompletely, soon completed and not found. We report to entrepreneurs who have been waiting for months to respond to their applications for the fixed-cost grant, which have received a commitment from the hard-fall fund, but have still not seen any money, because someone has clicked on an input, or who simply have no right to funds from any funding pot, because the support schemes are completely beyond reality. Founders and start-ups are particularly affected by this mess, and you sometimes get the impression that you are inventing new aid measures on the ongoing band to distract you from the chaos of the existing aid measures. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] But that is not the way forward, and that is why my very urgent request is: Take a heart and say goodbye to the Cofag, this black box, this black hole! In the financial offices – in your financial offices! – experts who can do this better and have all the important data immediately at hand. Bring clarity to your own help! That would be the first important step. Next, you should use the time to finally implement measures that give start-ups as well as founders at least a little confidence. These points are not new, we have often cited them as a Tibetan prayer mill: Take care of new forms of society and a very strong shattering of the trade order! bureaucratic brakes that don't fit into our time, especially start-ups make life damn hard. Make employee participation possible! This helps start-ups, which helps employees. At present, this is a bureaucratic and fiscal nonsense. Take care of new forms of society! We have also been talking for a long time about the possibility of finally asserting fictitious equity interest rates tax. This would be a simple and convenient way to make start-ups and young companies more resistant. Especially in the crisis, if equity has already been attacked, that would be a real support – and perhaps the idea will even be known to you. They announced them themselves last summer, but nothing has happened. Of course, it is also important for start-ups to reduce labour costs. The first employee, the first employee – this must not be an unattainable obstacle. That's not much, it's not Rocketscience, they're not big demands. It's all the worse that we have to repeat them over and over again. I'm really worried when I see how bad and unthinking most of the relief measures are set up. I feel it is just too threatening if what the government is doing about innovation and digitization is Austria's department store. Please don't make it harder for people to get out of the crisis, don't dig more black holes and make sure that start-ups as well as founders are given some confidence! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e55955	Mr Lindinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e55976	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! First of all, I would like to thank the fact that, in the course of the debate on the urgent request, we have the opportunity to talk about the many aid packages in Austria. As a representative of rural areas and as a representative of agriculture, I will focus on agriculture in my statements on gastronomy, hotels and tourism and on agriculture on the one hand. As we all know, this crisis has met quite a lot of areas, and this federal government with the Federal Chancellor and this Finance Minister is doing everything possible to correct the consequences. Our aim is to accompany the businesses, the workers, the people in the crisis and then set up programmes so that we can hopefully get back even better and even more out of this crisis, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] As far as I am concerned about this request, Mr President, I am deeply afraid that, as NEOS, the idea of requiring new taxes, the increase in corporate tax or income tax. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] How will the economy react? It is precisely now that we must spread optimism and we must not come up with new taxes. [[Abg. Schellhorn:...I mean, what about you?- Oh, my God!]] I would have expected the once self-appointed NEOS economic party to feel more, more sustainability. One must not punish the establishments which keep workers on the holding by being in short-time employment. You must explain this to an employee once he becomes unemployed due to higher taxes that NEOS require – not with us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To the area of tourism – gastronomy, hotel industry, gastronomy, heurigen, farm holiday, but also private room rental –: This is one of the sectors that has certainly been hit hardest, and that is why the Federal Government has decided very quickly to apply for aid: sales with only a few clicks, VAT reduction from 20 or 10 per cent to 5 per cent by the end of the year, short work for employees, fixed-cost allowance, two-year, free-of-interest bridge credit and the extension of the charges. Ladies and gentlemen, these packages are grabbing. People come quickly and relatively easily to their money. Those who do not believe this, ladies and gentlemen, should talk to those responsible from the tourism industry in Germany, Italy and Switzerland. They envy us about these packages. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Rössler.]] We therefore see that the efforts made and the appreciation of our companies, our businesses, and above all our population, apply. We do everything we can to provide the best possible help – and this help comes as well. Where there are problems, let's look at this in detail, and then let's see that we're sharpening. Ladies and gentlemen, now I can come to the field of agriculture and forestry: Agriculture, and I say that as a young farmer, is for me an economy on the land. Our family-run farms do not live on the idyll, air or love, but are self-employed businesses that also have to fight in and with this crisis. That's exactly why it was important that we have implemented a discharge package in the tax and social security sector and in the forestry sector of 400 million euros in advance to cover our businesses. Social security contributions to micro-enterprises have fallen. There is support for young farmers, support for old farmers, the fall-out fund and the investment premium of 7 and 14 percent for agriculture and forestry. In this respect, 12 000 applications with a total volume of 230 million euros have already been submitted. These measures are covered by a variety of packages. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there are also areas where there is a need for intensification. There are areas, especially in the flat-rate establishments, which provide gastronomy and hotels in which we still need support. On the one hand, these are the direct suppliers to whom up to 100 percent of the sales have been broken out, and on the other hand, they are the indirectly affected establishments, the processing industry, the meat, fruit, vegetables to wholesale or processing. Ladies and gentlemen, there has already been a damage of more than 70 million euros, so there is still a need for support for these companies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the Farmers' Federation guarantees that the interests of farmers and the land owners will be used. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and NEOS]] [[Phone call at the NEOS.]] That is why it has been a concern for us for years – and it is also decreed in the government programme – that we implement the designation of origin for Community food. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Waller]] That is why I am pleased when Federal Minister Anschober, who is responsible for this proposal here, takes on responsibility and does not lose time so that we can finally implement this designation of origin, which is long overdue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, next Sunday is an agricultural chamber election in Styria and Upper Austria. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] We have a top candidate in Upper Austria with our chamber president Michaela Langer-Wenninger, who is committed and motivated to our country and is committed to the interests of farmers. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have on this list among the first 40 places eleven young farmers – and this makes me especially proud as a young farmer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Waller.]] Two out of five people are managers. Ladies and gentlemen, the Farmers' Federation is the only one, the real, the serious representation for our farmers, because we don't think in months or years, we think in generations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double builder]] [[Abg. Mr Stögmüller: Mr President.]] [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] We young farmers think about the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e56118	On the matter!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e56134	That's why: Support the Upper Austrian Farmers' Federation on Sunday!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e56161	Mr Brandtätter is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e56185	Mr Lindinger has now told us a lot. I will not actually correct this with the agricultural chamber election, but I am actually correcting that NEOS do not want a tax increase. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e56207	That's a political assessment. [[Abg. Haubner: This is not an actual correction!]] [[Interim calls at FPÖ and NEOS.]] We have made it clear in the President that we do not make any political assessments. [[Call at the FPÖ:Who said that?]] I think that's very, very clear. So I ask you to be so good and determine the statement to be corrected! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fireplaces.]] . We have agreed to this, honourable Member. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Fireplaces.]] – I interrupted you and now I am speaking, at least take note of this! First, please state the corrective statement of Mr Lindinger and then make the correction!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e56261	Mr Lindinger claimed that NEOS wanted a tax increase. – This may be similar to Dirty Campaign or Message Control, because the Federal Minister has also said it, but it is wrong. I'm actually correcting: The NEOS do not want a tax increase. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e56345	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e56366	Mr President. High house! Values Advisors! Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard many pros and contrasts today, but I would like to stress that Austria is within the EU among the countries with the strongest economic collapse. There are hardly any countries in the EU that have a weaker economic performance than we do. According to an OECD list, we are in the lead. The only thing behind us is Portugal. For comparison I mention Germany: There, the economic downturn is 50 percent lower and the country has a 50 percent less unemployed than we do – only so much to the state that Austria is so well hit by the crisis. The question is only from what perspective. If we listen to entrepreneurs when we ask tax and economic consultants – no matter what couleur – there are two words that describe this situation quite well, namely: absolute uncertainty. The situation is similar to a journey in the fog for months without a view of the coast. There's nothing to talk about from a port. But where's the trip going? – There are many questions that cannot be answered either by the Chamber of Commerce or by the Federal Government or by the ministers responsible. For the post-crisis period, entrepreneurs lack the prospects, medium and long-term strategies, the potential look forward, the positive outlook into the future. What you've done as a government is a reaction, not an action. There are no or too few forward-looking measures. People have lost confidence, Mr. Minister! [[Abg. Haubner: Reduce income tax!]] Let me also take a look at the gastronomy and tourism industry that has hit it hardest. Farms are closed, only in this area 78 000 people are unemployed. From the previous week to this week, 26 000 have been added to short-time work, with a total of 130 000 now. According to the press conference held yesterday by Minister Kocher and Köstinger, it is important for the government to keep the staff in tourism. I'm just wondering how this should be, because at the same time you're saying that opening steps are far too risky. In this respect too, everyone is waiting for a plan. To be declared every two weeks that you are not allowed to lock up is not a plan. The short-time crisis instrument is good, but it is not a plan itself. It is dramatic how existences and families must remain in a state of suspended state. The other sectors are not much better. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] Aids run out in part, and there is no or no adequate revenue at all available to businesses. In the COVID-19 Justice Act, the possibility of legal support for credit rates was created. This measure expires at 31.1.2021 and has not been extended by the Federal Government. I therefore make an important request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In the name and in the sense of our domestic businesses and of the thousands of workers concerned, I would like to ask you for broad support for the proposed extension. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[16:55]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e56471	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e56495	Mr President. Federal Minister! I have read the Neos' urgent request carefully. As regards the first page, we agree on 90 percent, you make a completely correct assessment. We could listen to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic 20 times now, as he repeats in prayer, that Austria would best have coped with this crisis would have come through this crisis, so it will not become more true, because the facts simply clearly contradict it. The study quoted in the application also clearly shows this: We're in number 41 of 54. You write correctly: The government has shone through press conferences and stagings, but not through good crisis management. The facts are simple that, in the three essential economic parameters, we are clearly behind the countries with which we want to compare ourselves – and these are Germany, Switzerland and, for example, the Scandinavian countries. As far as economic performance is concerned, 7.58 percent of GDP is concerned, this is not the truth at all, but, in fact, the number is much higher, because, of course, the “cost of what it wants” - the money-to-delivery measures can achieve GDP-damaging or increasing effects. If this is calculated sharply, we are significantly more than 10 percent in the case of a real GDP reduction. So that's catastrophic numbers. We have a million unemployed or people who cannot carry out normal work, we have a new debt of 20, 28 billion euros, according to the slogan of the Federal Chancellor, “costs what it wants”. “It costs what it wants” is not a good idea, according to my economic policy self-understanding. The government has indeed acted accordingly. If you look at the sales revenue of 80 percent in November: Who can think of replacing 80 percent of sales? This can only happen to someone who does not know the difference between turnover, coverage and earnings. In addition to the German solution, which was much more intelligent, the entire short-term work was also paid for. It will probably have been so that of these “costs it was what it wanted” billions were still there because the government was not so fast and so fast in the previous months. Here too, the figures speak a clear language: Let us look into Switzerland, where this has gone much faster. So my presumption – and I think I will be quite close to the truth – is that: There was just a lot of money there, and that's what we're getting some sort of people right now, by replacing 80 percent of the turnover. – This has really not been a good performance. Where we do not agree with the NEOS, there is a conclusion regarding the re-start. According to NEOS, the re-start is intended to look forward to further action – with the continuation of the lockdown or taking note of the lockdown – which is also useful and good. The restart of the liberals looks like this: Lockdown stop, right now! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If the first lockdown was still understandable – we went along with it – the second lockdown was at least disputable. For the third lockdown, the end of which we do not know at all, there is no justification for figures and development. There will probably be a fourth lockdown or a further regulation or the main committee will extend it. No one knows how long that takes. It is planned now once until mid February, but it can also be late February, or late March, or until Easter – no one knows that. We are all talking about planning security for companies. I'm a businessman myself. This has nothing to do with planning certainty, but quite the contrary. It also has nothing to do with a positive understanding of positive access, namely to say: Yes, the year 2020 was very difficult, but we have the chance to pick up the 2021 – not entirely, but in large parts – but we can turn it around by spitting our hands again. However, it is necessary to stop and reopen the government's labour-free measures – the lockdown – immediately, and in fact, they are important every day. Those who talk to economic researchers and economists will hear them all say: Every day, every week is important; the sooner we start again, the sooner we can do that. What are you doing? – They do exactly the opposite and say: The lockdown will now be extended until mid-February, but it will probably last even longer. – So seriously. You don't really believe in the signals you're setting, do you? [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Unfortunately, next year we will experience a huge insolvency issue and we will also experience in the next few years that anyone will have to repay these debts. That will probably not be us, but our children and children, our grandchildren, who not only burden you with the debt mountain, but also take their future opportunities by locking the schools – even a measure we have no understanding of at all. The children are double-punished by you, and that is unacceptable. So please – what do you mean? – Yes, please, we ask you or we ask you to really stop now. The opportunity to lock up the economy, lock up the schools, give people their lives and freedom back, and also allow people to deliver would still be there. Talking about performance justice really is bordering on the cynical. They must give people the opportunity to perform. The Austrians are also willing to perform performance, you just have to leave it. The state that we now have is that you are degrading much of the Austrian population from productive and powerful people to alms recipients. This is not our access to the task of a state.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e56574	Next speaker: Mr Markus Koza. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e56595	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me address one point in the NEOS proposal, in particular the issues that affect the working world – the so-called additional labour costs, labour costs. It has already been said a lot about short-time work, but I think that a lot of things have to be done: what short-time work really is, what the meaning of short-time work is and what it actually looks like with the costs. One point is: They write that short-time work is a right measure for certain industries and probably a proper measure in the crisis – that was called – and in March it still fit, now it fits less. – Unfortunately, the crisis is not over yet. In other words, we need the instrument of short work today just as we needed short work in March and as we used it in the summer. We have tried to adapt the short-term work model to the challenges of autumn. Criticism has arrived over long distances, and the social partners have also taken appropriate measures to limit the possibility of reducing working hours to zero hours, because it was simply no longer necessary. One has switched to a model with which one can reduce a maximum of 30 percent of working time so that this form of generous use of short work can no longer take place. Regrettably, Lockdown crises have come in between us so that we had to return to the old model in part. The success speaks for this model: We have saved 60,000 jobs – the Minister of Labour mentioned earlier – by introducing this short work in March and continuing it. The short work is also not a static model, it is a dynamic model! This can only be seen by looking at the fact that it is in mid-May's approvals for Short work amounted to 12 billion euros. The budget has been increased regularly, but of these 12 billion euros, only 5.6 billion – “only” – have actually become staggering. Why? – Because much of what has been reported for short work was simply not exploited, it was not necessary because workers were able to work longer because the companies had increased faster because the benefits of short work were not necessary. That is why the approach is that people who are in short-time jobs are being taught in full-time jobs, an apologies – completely absurd. People are in full-time employment or in high part-time working conditions, they have a genuine employment relationship. They do not have to be transferred from there, but in reality it is about reducing and promoting these employment relationships over a certain period of time in a crisis situation, so that people can stay in their business, and the bosses do not need to look for new jobs when it goes up again. That's the background. That's why it's completely absurd to say: These are people who don't have a real job, we communicate in 40-hour jobs! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] That's not the sense of short work, that's not what it's all about. I understand very well the approach that one says that companies, short-time work and many tax resources should subsequently also pay corresponding taxes. I think this is a not at all awkward approach – in principle. The problem is just: If this is announced now, then I personally have the great fear that a lot of short work will not be used at all, and this is actually a counterproductive measure in the middle of the crisis. That is why I would rather distance myself from such steps. The fact that recruitment promotion is likely to play an essential role in overcoming the employment crisis: Yes, I agree, and they do. There is, for example, integration aid, for example, combination wage models, and there is the restart bonus. They are usually tailored to certain groups of unemployed people who have difficulty in the labour market, who are difficult to mediate, who do not have easy access to: for example, older unemployed, people with health problems or returnees. It also makes sense that they are promoted because they are very often not as productive as other workers who come almost fresh from the labour market. They say to the company: They're not so productive, but you're getting a little money, and please put it on and train her! Why everyone and every employee – everyone and every newly employed unemployed person – should be encouraged is not clear to me because it is partly related to how productive the employees are. This may then result in partial takeover effects, which are quite problematic and very expensive. But, in itself, integration aid and integration measures are something absolutely meaningful and necessary – the question is only: For whom? For how long? For what period? One last point: It has been said that NEOS want to increase the tax rate. I can only say: This is absolutely not true, the NEOS have already announced in their programme that they want to go down to 39 percent. That is what they say in this request: "The high tax burden in Austria inhibits employment, tightens the shortage of skilled workers". – For me, it is a huge problem if we are talking again and again about wage reductions that would be urgently needed. Costs of pay, that's so nice, but what are additional wage costs? – These are social security contributions, which are health insurance contributions, which are pension insurance contributions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] You should know about it. one reason: When people are asked: Do you want to reduce the cost of a wage? Yeah, we think that's important. If you ask, If you want to reduce pensions, do you want to reduce health care?, then it probably won't be so offensive at once. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] That's why: Be careful in case of wage reductions – they could endanger your health! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e56685	Next speaker: Mr Felix Eypeltauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e56707	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Before I get to the point, I would like to point out that, under President Sobotka, we had once again experienced a model example of party leadership. [[I would like to appeal to Mr Neos and Mr FPÖ, as well as to the members of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] Mr Lindinger gave a round-the-clock agricultural election speech here for a few minutes. The commitment to agricultural policy would have been inconceivable to him if he was still overburdened and the President said nothing and did nothing, then my colleague Helmut Brandstätter went forward and made an actual correction, I already wondered what was actually the party presidency or not. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Ottenschlager]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fürlinger]] [[I would like to appeal to Mr Neos and Mr FPÖ, as well as to the members of the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I would look very closely at what President Sobotka – he is not here now – would do if I went forward here and gave an above-Austrian country election speech: Probably he'd stop me, that is, completely right. [[Abg. Eßl: What does that have to do with...?]] But on the matter: In this crisis – and I believe that we agree on this statement – we should be the basis of non-violent, transparent honesty on the one hand and the debate on it on the other. So how good is Austria really in dealing with the crisis? – We have researched – that has already been the subject – the results are quite clear. In its Covid Resilience ranking, Bloomberg analyses countries in which the crisis is most effective and with the lowest social and economic impact. Austria is currently on place 41 of 54. If now colleague Black says of the Greens: Yes, but there are also many totalitarian states among them that guard their citizens!, then he is right, but he must not hide that there are also France, Spain, Germany, Finland, Denmark, Sweden, Israel, Switzerland, UK, Ireland, Portugal and so on and so on. You have to say that for the sake of completeness. [[Abg. Ottenschlager:... Spain!]] [[Abg. Haubner:... Spain!]] And: We have a federal government that is always very smart. We have a federal chancellor who always gives himself very smart and makes himself on excellence. This is also a good thing in the production, but if you always do so on excellence, then you should also strive for it, you should compare with the best and not with the worst. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The fact that Austria is not good at managing the crisis, we know that, and now it would be important to find out why this is so: How effective does the state actually work? away from the message control that the ÖVP masterfully dominates, because now more than ever the narrator is enough, but only the one that counts. This accomplished, ladies and gentlemen, dear Austrians, should be able to research experts using scientific methods in order to improve the political measures and to make the debate more informed! The following will now shock many listeners just as it shocked me: This is not possible in Austria. Austrian researchers can better research and review measures from other countries than measures by their own country, because the Federal Government keeps or does not collect substantial data under the guise, and this, ladies and gentlemen, with a state ratio of far more than 50 percent at present and in a situation where we need the best and most effective measures. I'd also like to give you a play. Yesterday in the "ZIB 2" a German study on Covid-19 risks by professional groups was presented. There is no such thing for and for Austria. Why? – Because the data is simply missing. The government does not make evidence-based policies, it hinders the transparent and scientific debate about them, and it refuses to account for them in the last episode, and that is really not right in this crisis, quite the contrary! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Federal Government and countries, ladies and gentlemen, were already world champions in intrude funding before the pandemic. Since the beginning of the crisis, we have heard this many times today, innumerable funding rails that cost the taxpayers in Austria many billions and the future generations – and I am talking not only about my children but probably also about my children and their children – will somehow have to pay back, which will have to be financed in some way – talk about it far too little. But whether these subsidies, which we also finance with billions and billions of debt, are really safe, no one knows, because the data cannot be researched. Other countries have long solved this – Denmark, the Netherlands or Finland – and, in part, it goes so far as to allow domestic researchers to do better research on the measures in these countries than in Austria. Mr Federal Minister, I appeal to you: Finally, please give science access to these data, free unfiltered access to pseudonymized business data, microdata, funding data and all the other data you need in order to be able to actually assess whether action is really effective or effective! This does not only help you, Minister of State, that helps companies, it helps us here in Parliament. This also calls for the registrar research platform, which was rightly supported by your new colleague Martin Kocher as IHS chief. Now, of course, you're wondering: Why doesn't the Federal Government do that? That's absurd! – The answer: She does not, because that would mean a clear view of the truth, away from the flood of press conferences, away from the staging as a model student. Unfortunately, the message control also stands out here as evidence-based policy – but we need the opposite. In our request, we therefore call for, among other things, scientific access to business-related funding data to improve economic assistance and to ensure full public access to scientific evaluation results. Mr. Federal Minister, I conclude with Karl Popper: “Self criticism is the best criticism; but criticism by others is a necessity.” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e56819	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e56842	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not the task of the opposition to market what happened to positive things here in particular. This can be much better for the government, and you also have 260 million euros in the budget to get a corresponding media response. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is the task of the opposition to show where improvements are necessary, important and correct. Today, the key word of the shoulder closure has been used and strengthened several times, combined with the call: Well, bring proposals, we're ready! Mr Haubner, you recently informed us from the speaker's desk: We will take up every proposal that is positive so that we can move on. – I hear you go, but how does reality look? I bring an example: I am the chairman of the Tourism Committee, and every chairman of a committee is given a guide, a so-called Croquis, to make the meeting work properly and correctly. [[Keeping expressions in height]] I have here the Croquis for the Tourism Committee meeting of 17. On December 16, 2020, I am already on the same date as I did on December 16, 2020. ==References== Seven applications were submitted to the Tourism Committee: one from the SPÖ, six from us. It is now expected that in committee meetings arguments will be exchanged, that one will present his applications, that the government groups will react to a discussion, according to the motto: If we succeed in persuading the government parties, they will probably agree with Mr Haubner's request to accept it, so that we can move on to the economic location together. Ladies and gentlemen, how does reality look? – I got the Croquis a day before that. I look at the Croquis and quote from it, for example: “We are coming to Agenda item 8:” – this was a request from us – “A request from Members Mag. Gerald Hauser, colleagues in terms of capitalisation to revitalise the tourism industry.” – It was today discussed how important the capitalisation is. This has been referred to several times by my colleagues today, and we have brought in initiatives with the most positive arguments. So, how is this proposal now being dealt with? – I already know that a day before: ‘There is a request for a postponement’. – I read that one day before that! 'There is a request for a postponement that I shall vote on at once. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this request for a hand mark." That is to say, as President, I know a day before the meeting how the applications are dealt with. That is to say, all seven applications – one by the SPÖ, six by the FPÖ – have been postponed. That is, we can argue what we want because I have read before: It'll be postponed anyway. This is the way Parliament is dealing with it. Parliamentaryism is being small-minded. There is no exchange with Parliament that we miss! We can bring in whatever we want – whatever we do, you just wipe it away, and that is the disaster, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister! In principle, we agree that we need to help all the companies that are being closed down, don't we? Everyone – I assume. All establishments closed by the public authorities must be helped. I Now come to the private companies, to the accommodation companies. I also assume that all accommodation companies – whether small, medium or large – will be helped when they are closed. That would make sense, wouldn't it? - Okay. It's not like that! I'll give you another example. After interventions on our part, by the opposition, private tenants – these are farms up to ten beds, whether rooms or apartments are no matter – were supported via the hardening fund and by getting a turnover replacement. So far, so good. What if someone has eleven beds, or a twelfth? – It is the same situation! I tell you what this is like (the speaker puts a tablet with the inscription “! 8 fixed beds + 2 sofas = 12 beds! / Requests for funding by the agricultural market (AMA) rejected! / Reason: / You rent more than ten beds. / The ‘Small’ are again disadvantaged! / Gerald Hauser’ on the speaker’s desk) :Has a so-called private company, which is no longer a private company under legal law, instead of 10 beds eleven beds, he gets nothing. I have x examples of this. There is a small, really a micro farm two apartments with eight beds. In each apartment he also has a sofa, so he comes formally on twelve beds. He's looking for the hardness fund and he gets the answer: The application is not supported because more than ten beds are available. Now I ask you the following: If you go here now and say, We remove a sofa, instead of two sofas we have a sofa and then we have instead of twelve beds ten beds! – This, of course, Mr Haubner, is a huge difference – what happens then? – This operation is then supported. And now, Minister of Finance, please explain to me the logic behind this: a sofa out, then you get the support; if you have two sofas inside instead of a sofa and therefore more than ten beds, you won't get any support! - Sorry, that's neither logical nor consistent nor correct. It's about the little ones who don't get anything! I read to you such an intervention letter that I received only yesterday. That's a widow who's got two sofas inside her apartments; that's exactly one case. She writes that the widow's pension of 840 euros goes on for the monthly fixed costs such as taxes, insurance, heating, medical costs and so on. Yes, say, ladies and gentlemen, where does social justice remain here? That can't be it, please, that the little ones of the little ones are not taken into account! Mr Haubner has made a statement earlier, and if this company has more than ten beds, he must be in business. Mr Haubner, you are already right in legal form, but these are all companies that have so far paid taxes.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e56927	Mr President, the speaking time of your group has been exhausted, so I would ask you to formulate the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e56943	These are all companies that have made compulsory contributions, but they are not supported because they fail in formalisms of the Chamber of Commerce, because the Chamber of Commerce wants to force all businesses that have more than ten beds into the industry to pay commercial contributions. That can't be the logic for promoting!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e56970	Mr Andreas Ottenschlagrist. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e56996	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I need to replicate on my colleague Eypeltauer. First of all, what Mr Brandstätter has tried here was not, in my view, at least any actual correction. That is why the President has acted correctly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Secondly, because you meant that Mr Lindinger's speech was over: There is, according to the Rules of Procedure, a certain speaking time per group in the debate, and the group can agree on how it is used. That's why he didn't do anything wrong either. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] But now I come to your arguments. I am also a friend of studies because they are trying to put certain facts on the table in a neutral way as evidence-based as possible. Just one thing I'm asking to think about: Talk to businesses that are internationally active, with Austrian companies, for example, as you mentioned, which have branches in Spain or France! They wait until today for money, there is nothing there – and in Austria it works! I would ask you to take note of this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I also ask the question: Do these studies take into account the measures we have already taken, such as the reduction of VAT in gastronomy, the reduction in income tax, the preservation of purchasing power by short-time work, the temporary increase in unemployment benefit? Do these studies take this into account? - I don't think so. I am still convinced that we are better off here than most others.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e57049	Next speaker: Mr Kai Jan Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e57073	Mr Ottenschlager, the reduction in sales tax in the gastronomy is without any relevance for every gastronomy because it has been for more than two months. He's got zero sales! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] This is totally irrelevant, how high a tax is of a turnover that is not there! However, we are debating the question of whether the government has been successful in the fight against pandemics or not. Ten months ago, we were all in one opinion, because success is measured at the end of the day: He is measured by how many people lose their lives through the pandemic. He is measured by how many people lose their jobs through the pandemic. It is measured by how many farms have to lock and it is measured by what these aid measures cost. And the fifth question at the end – which is now a political one of the SPÖs, we were not in agreement – I also think it is very important, namely who is at the end of the day paying for the costs of fighting the crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the first four points, we all agreed that you can read this in the Stenographical Protocol. Now we look at the balance sheet for today: 7 200 dead in Austria. Compare this with Germany in relation to the population: by 50 percent more – that is not good. When we look at unemployment: in Austria, a record unemployment rate of over 500 000 unemployed – much worse than Germany, much, much worse than Germany; that is not good. We can agree that the numbers are not lying. Next question: How many farms have to lock? This is a question that we cannot answer yet, neither in the analogue country of Germany nor in Austria, because we are putting something ahead of us through tax receipts, social security benefits for businesses, which we know is when the tax charges are being charged when social security benefits become severe, the number of insolvencys will go up. So you can't say that yet. Fourth question: How expensive were the help compared? – In Austria about twice as expensive as in Germany. That is, if we look at these four points, we have to say that we are worse with three out of four criteria and one cannot say it yet. In that respect, I believe, the judgment is clear whether the crisis management has been good or bad up to now: She was bad, and that's what the objective figures are. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] That is not a political question, but in the end the facts count. On the question of who pays the cost at the end of the day, the ÖVP says: Well, the workers and the consumers! They pay 85 percent; 85 percent will have to pay when it comes to you! The proposals made by the Social Democracy that those who have capital also pay a higher contribution always refuse. This is a political question, but we will also measure it, and we will discuss this question for years to come: Who pays the costs? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They say about the ÖVP that workers are supposed to pay for this, that the pensioners should not pay for it, at least not the wealth and the donors of the ÖVP. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] But how else can one characterise crisis policy, except that it has not been successful, which demonstrates the facts? - I'll tell you one thing: What we've been seeing here for ten months is: This government can do well to stage. She also invests a lot of time, a lot of energy. What she can't do is rule. The press conferences are well prepared, the wording is right, the message control is right, but the test that works with the vaccination is not good afterwards. That is, if you want to characterise how the government operates, you can say: Creating instead of ruling. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second is the question of the shoulder closure. What does shoulder closure mean? – This means that we personally, that we are party-political, that we push towards power interests and that we are looking at the whole of Austria, at the big and the whole, and that we are looking at all. And what does the ÖVP do? – It makes exactly the opposite: It puts power interests, party interests ahead of the interests of Austria. That's what characterises you! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you want to argue, tell me a few things you've done! There are many pensioners in Austria, who have little money, that's true, but there's no problem with the crisis: zero, because their pension has not been reduced. But they have made a special pension increase for a single group, although those insured according to the ASVG, i.e. the workers and employees, and the self-employed all have the same low pensions as the farmers. [[Call the ÖVP: That's not true!]] They have only made a special increase for farmers – not for workers, not for employees and not for the self-employed – because you are simply acting party-politically and politically in this crisis, even though the impact of Covid-19 was equal to zero. Another example: the question of rents. Not only the SPÖ, but also the FPÖ says – and NEOS have always said at the outset: Why does a company that is officially locked have to pay rent? We wanted a legal clarification that an operation, if it's officially locked, doesn't have to pay rent. We have made x requests, you have always rejected them. The Minister of Justice was the only one who supported this proposal, but she failed at the real estate lobby – in the ÖVP, so that we could clarify it. Today, every hairdresser, every masseur and every small coffee house, although they have been locked for weeks, still have to burn full length rent. [[Abg. Ottenschlager: And they get 75 percent replaced!]] – Yes, I know the real estate economy is your largest donor group! You yourself are one of their representatives here because you put power policy ahead of the interests of Austria. - That's the second point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The third point – of course also the Greens – is: Is all that you do in this context secret or is it transparent? – They choose secret, super secret, strictly secret, for the opposite of transparent. When Mr Black turns out here and says: You can go into the Cofag anyway, then you would see everything and hear everything!, then that's right, but: One of every club can go in, and do you know what happens at the entrance? – The mouth is sewn to him! It's nice that he sees it and that he hears it, but the mouth is sewn to him at the entrance and he can't talk to anyone about it. Now I ask you: Is this transparent or is it a secret to ban Members of the mouth?- Oh, my God! [[Complaints with SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] I know that this is unpleasant for a party that has stood for control and transparency, but that you want to get out of here and approach Members to the mouth so that they can find out what really happens in the aid, which is actually a representative of a green party unworthy. You're supposed to be a slave for that. And if you look objectively at whether the government has been successful in its entirety or not, you simply have to say: No, she was not successful – on the contrary. You should listen more to the opposition parties, and the constructive forces are sitting in all parties – whether that is in the budget and the financial sector of colleague Fuchs, colleague Angerer, colleague Double Bauer, colleague Schellhorn, colleague Matznetter et cetera, we all make constructive contributions here. You should listen to it more, because it would be more successful in combating crisis in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e57189	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Before I come to the votes, I ask the political groups whether we can do the same. - Then we will now carry out the votes. We are now voting on the self-employed amendment 1221/A(E) by Mrs Schellhorn, colleagues and colleagues on 'New confidence and trust – better come out of the crisis'. Whoever agrees to this request, I would ask for a sign to be accepted. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of the European Parliament on the postponement of holiday leave for change in semester holidays. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kickl, colleagues and colleagues on 'preventing business – opening up gastronomy businesses immediately'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. [[Abg. Worm: (on the group of the liberals whose Members stand up as the only ones from the seats, wise) We are the only ones for the gastronomy!]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ, FPÖ and greens.]] – I would like to continue the voting process. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members for a preliminary ruling on the extension of legal support for creditors. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. [[17:35:26]] Short debate: Activities of policy-makers in the first half of 2020
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e57257	As agreed, we are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for the Interior with the order number 3757/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so there is a lack of reading by the author. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with Rule 57a of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes. You, ladies and gentlemen, as a bringer and first speaker, have a speech time of 10 minutes. Mr Federal Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e57291	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing a highly topical issue of security policy today. It is about answering my question about the activities of the objectors in Austria. This is exemplary for many responses we receive from you, Mr Minister, and which unfortunately have been carried out in an inadequate manner. We ask for answers and we want you, Mr Minister, to inform the people specifically and in detail about the potential for danger arising from this scene. For years we have been observing an alarming development in Austria, the constant construction of a scene that knows many names: Contradictors, freemen, citizens, state administrators. According to your request, this anti-democratic environment can be attributed to around 3,700 people in Austria. In Germany, it is estimated that there are around 19 000 so-called citizens of the empire and self-managers, and we know that the level of armament is increasing steadily in this scene. A huge weapons arsenal was removed at a razzia in Baden-Württemberg and in Hesse last year alone. That already indicates the danger potential that comes from this scene. That is why it is urgently necessary to make concrete and transparent as to how dangerous the refusal scene in Austria is assessed, Minister. During the German Bundestag and the population in Germany receive concrete answers from their Minister of the Interior to questions, let us sit in the dark and answer only insufficiently. For example, the following specific questions remained unanswered in your reply: We wanted to know how many people out of the scene have a sincere ban on weapons and how many are in possession of a weapons possession card. They refer in the answer to the fact that there are corresponding ‘statistics regarding ‘weapons holding card’ and ‘discovery of suspicion of breach of the Prohibition Act’ respectively. ‘The reasons for the request for assistance from the financial police do not exist’. Unfortunately, such elusive answers regarding the possession of weapons in the extremist environment are not an individual case, but in your ministry Usus. Quite open: This is a very serious issue of security policy. It is about the security of the population in Austria! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Krisper.]] From a democratic policy perspective, I think it is crucial that the public be transparently informed and informed about these dangerous developments, about the danger potential of extremist movements. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Recently we know that in 2020 there were as many weapons purchased in Austria as never before. According to the Central Weapons Register, around 1.15 million weapons are privately owned. It is of great relevance, of course, to know: What are the hands of these weapons? Recently, we know that no active weapons ban has existed against the perpetrators of Vienna. However, we are all well-known to all of us, and from your reply we conclude that there is no suitable balance between arms owners and members of anti-state and extremist organisations. You are in arrears, Mr Minister, there is a very, very urgent need for action! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Krisper.]] We are currently experiencing – this has been addressed several times today – such as conspiracy theorists, such as state objectors, such as right-wing extremities and neo-Nazis, trying to abuse, collect and use the corona protests for themselves. We experience how anti-Semitic and the Holocaust relativizing theories are distributed indefinitely. That we do not have to deal with a harmless development, the head of the BAT extremism department last week pointed out in an interview in the “Kurier”. She even sees – literally she speaks of, I quote – “at risk of state potential”. Even terrorist attacks the extremism expert doesn't want to rule out here. Worry, too, that right-wing cadres undermine the protests. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this has become visible to all of us on Saturday. If multiple condemned Holocaust liars, neo-Nazis such as Gottfried Kussel march along when the speaker of the Austrian identity and other dubiously known right-wing extrems, neo-Nazis and state objectors march in these demos, this becomes visible to all of us. Since 2015, we have experienced a high level of right-wing, anti-Semitic and racist crimes in Austria. From the recent constitutional protection report, we know that old structures and networks are reorganising around long-term management frameworks of classical neonazism in Austria. The so-called New Rights, the Identities are anything but the peaceable activists, than they like to represent themselves. Many of the New Rights are Armed or sentenced for various crimes, including severe body injury, rape, extortion, robbery and re-acting. At the same time, I recall the many searches of weapons, with up to one million shots in Upper Austria in the spring of last year. I recall the razzia in the far right scene over the past few months – Mr Minister, you yourself have spoken about it today! I remember explosives. It was not until Monday that the police in Lower Austria lifted a arms camp, including NS-Devotionalien. You, Mr Minister, have already mentioned the danger potential of this far-right scene. This shows the urgent need for action in Parliament so that we can be actively opposed to extremism. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, it is crucial that you provide us with facts. We need concrete answers. We need answers to our questions, they are the basis for our work! They must be the basis for us to develop measures to work together against extremism and to become active. Mr Minister, I ask you to provide detailed answers and not to refer to the secret subcommittee of the Committee on the Interior. The people have a right to be informed about the security in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today in a week is an international holocaust commemorative day. It is therefore my concern to point out something specifically: One can see the corona measures of the Federal Government critically and must be able and able to announce this, but whoever throws himself in Pose before the Hitler-Birthhouse in Braunau, who carries so-called Jewish stars, who uses writings from concentration camps and abuses quotations from victims and resistance fighters, who relativizes and impoverishes the crimes of National Socialism and the murder of millions of people! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] That is forgotten, that is simply disgusting, and that is unbearable in a democracy! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] Mr. Federal Minister, I ask you once again to provide concrete answers here, and with the words of the BAT extremism expert: What we are seeing right now is – quote – “a mixture of everything that can be unloaded at any time”. I warn you to underestimate that somehow. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e57426	Mr Karl Nehammer has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e57447	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate You very much support your commitment to the fight against right-wing extremism and I share your view that, in addition to the threat posed by the classical right-wing scene, we have been able to observe and clarify a new scene that has been forming since 2015, namely the one of the state enemies or non-state objectors. The question of how much the rule of law can deal with them is also a determination of the legal situation. And there too I must mention the constitutional protection and the Federal Criminal Office, which is determined with high pressure against this scene and there, where possible, has also been successfully identified. This can only be seen in the condemnation, in the judgment against the so-called State Association of Austria, its members who have been accused of high treason and the establishment of an anti-state link. The members of this State Federation have been successfully condemned. That is to say, the officials of the Ministry of the Interior, the police officers who come into service take this threat very seriously, and this presents us with another in addition to all the other challenges. The fight against the far right and the right-wing scene is committed and determined. You have also been able to see what you yourself have just quoted at the speaker's desk, namely the success of the investigation in Upper Austria, and also the great weapon found just recently, caused by an investigation into organised crime and the drug environment, because it clearly shows the picture that the right-wing scene, which is ready for terrorist attacks, is just as financed as jihadism, namely through drug trafficking, and the sale of drugs weapons and explosives. Here again, it is necessary to continue to take decisive action and, here again, it is always in the rule of law to take decisive action against it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They have mentioned my head of unit – and this is also true of us, Madam Members, although we come from completely different ideological camps – which will soon be retired, but I have asked her to continue to be available as an expert, because she has actually developed a high level of expertise. From my point of view, it needs three things: It needs the determined fight against right-wing extremism and against anti-state connections, and this is led by officials, which can be proved. At the same time, it is also necessary to clarify the threats to democracy. It doesn't start with the police. The police are always used when a development is already far too advanced. When we talk about prevention, we also need to talk about putting this into schools with prevention concepts, in order to also raise awareness of where these – I say quite consciously – “people fishermen” are on their way and are driving evil. Yes, we take the country's refusal scene seriously – it has about 3,700 members – and we do everything possible to observe it from the point of view of state protection. But the multitude of people who join this attitude and the diversity of their conspicuousness when they actually commit criminal offences if the police can actually intervene if state protection actually detects errors, these are the great challenges and the demanding tasks we are facing at present in order to protect our democracy and freedom. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Stögmüller.]] And the third – this is a repetition of the last time –: Ladies and gentlemen, I know there will always be a divergence between the expectations here in Parliament and the possibilities of a ministry in relation to requests, but I would like to stress once again that the officials of the Ministry of the Interior have so far answered some 680 parliamentary questions; I have been since 7. January 2020 Minister of the Interior. That is to say, there is an attempt to carefully examine the requests, according to the legal circumstances, according to the conditions of the proportionality examination, in order to satisfy – yes – your claim here in Parliament to obtain information. To this end, the Ministry of the Interior is standing before my officials, as Minister of the Interior, who fulfil this task to the best of their knowledge and conscience.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e57519	Mrs Eva-Maria Himmelbauer has now been reported to the House. From now on, there are 5 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e57541	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We all have our routines in our lives – we also have routines in Parliament. We build structures, formalize processes to get to activities faster, carry out faster activities. And so the SPÖ should also have established a routine by asking the Ministry of the Interior in the mid-term rhythm, which concerns the issue of state objectors. Please do not misunderstand, this is quite a relevant and present topic for our security authorities, as the Minister has done, and certainly for all of us who sit here and protect our democracy and our state institutions. It is understandable and our right to be informed of this, as Members of this House. Minister Nehammer has replied to this in the response to the question, both in the present and in the previous, as well as in so far as it is publicly acceptable; as well as many reports from the Ministry of the Interior, as well as from other institutions, such as the Federal Office for Cult Questions, which regularly report and present their work and the potential for danger in their reports. But what you also need to be aware of, and also the colleague Treasure – I also assume that she is aware of it – is that not everything can be discussed publicly. In particular, in connection with intelligence activities, in the context of ongoing investigations, public treatment is a threat to the same, weakening the position of investigators through the disclosure of the information, even if the information is that there is no information about it. That is why the National Council – importantly – has also set up its own subcommittee, which advises on internal matters, which in a given context promotes the exchange with the Ministry of the Interior and which enables discussion to be made of precisely such delicate topics and also secret topics. In the three questions already being raised, both to Minister Peschorn and to Minister Nehammer, the subject has been referred to several times and has also been offered to the subcommittee, where it also belongs. However, I would also like to use this short debate to address the current situation, which can be the breeding ground for and which is also used for the first arm of anti-state structures – in the sense of the pandemic and the crisis. Social media have played a major role in spreading misinformation and conspiracy theories, especially in the pandemic; whether it has been called into question the existence of the virus, to questionable treatment methods, to drink the word bleach, or to the extent that someone could use a chip when vaccination. And there is much more, much more, that is driving around in the social media. These groups, which have arisen, are not in principle anti-state, but they are used by non-state objectors to spread messages, ideologies and recruitment, and that is worrying. Some social media act very consistently against this misinformation or even against these individual spreaders, not only by blocking them, but also by localizations, the reference to scientific information, in order to show above all another side in order to break up these created bubbles of opinion, in which one is very quick to find himself in the social media. Other social media, including telegrams, are as media They have grown regularly because they do not offer a counterweight. There, obscene theories and opinions are strengthened only more and all who participate are drawn into a suckling. As already mentioned in the 2018 Constitutional Protection Report, the phenomenon of anti-state connections will continue to be an essential area of constitutional protection in the future. All the more important is the forthcoming BAT reform in order to adapt the structures relating to intelligence and state police activities, but also when it comes to training and technical expertise to be active in these fields and to monitor the primary platforms, the social media for recruitment or the dissemination of ideologies. I would like to conclude by stressing, as the Minister has also mentioned, what the Federal Government is doing in particular in prevention, in particular the federal network on extremism prevention and deradization, with which the Ministry of the Interior is responsible, together with all the departments and federal states and other institutions, shows fields of action, strategies and action plans in order to actively oppose extremism, against radicalisation. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e57598	Next speaker: Mr Reinhold Einwallner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e57619	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr. Federal Minister Nehammer, now we meet again; for the time being we have to use this instrument to discuss a question answer, because we are constantly, unfortunately, not getting any answers from you. We only experienced this a week ago at another request, the answers to the questions are simply missing or not available at all. Ladies and gentlemen! Now you can stand to do what you want, but it is – and I told you last week – from my point of view, it is simply a disregard for a very important parliamentary right that we have National Councillors, and we will not accept it. We'll be You do not miss out on this, either, because we, as parliamentarians of this House, do not like the fact that we do not respect our right to request so much. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] I sometimes feel that there is such a basic attitude that requests, especially the opposition, are simply annoying or that we are making them fun. Now you say, Minister, that there is an effort in the ministry and you are trying to answer the questions carefully. The first speaker, who comes from the ÖVP to the speaker's desk, says, well, that's another request that is made every half year, and plays the whole thing down again. – What is the attitude to parliamentary questions now? Conscientiously answered is not what lies here, in any case. I feel more and more that you feel it is an annoying evil that the opposition also makes critical requests. Parliamentary questions, ladies and gentlemen, are an important instrument and, for us, almost the only instrument to get information. We need this information on such sensitive issues in order to be able to draw the relevant political conclusions. If they are missing, this cannot be done to the appropriate extent. Let us now come to this specific question. This is a safety-related issue that we must not underestimate. We are confirmed by several sides that these so-called non-governmental organizations have a potential for danger which must not be underestimated. Then we ask, and you give us the answer that there are about 3,700 people who are there on the screen in Austria. And then we just want to know who out of these 3,700 people actually has a gun ticket or a weapons possession card. It must be possible for us to get an answer from you. There are only two possibilities, Mr Minister, there are actually only two variants: The one is, you don't want to tell us the other is, you don't know, and both variants are grossly negligent – grossly negligent! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] This morning we have already discussed and talked about the lack of resources and the lack of equipment in your house. It is only to be hoped that there will not again be a lack of resources in this area, so that we can draw the relevant conclusions here and take decisive action. For one thing we expect from you, Minister: We expect a very determined and decisive approach against the extremes of the right in this country, and we call for it. We call for a determined and decisive approach against the citizens of the Reich, and we call for a determined and decisive approach against these objectors, for this is about security. We must not underestimate that. I do not want to stand here in a debate where, when something has happened again, we will discuss it afterwards, but let us look at it in advance. Instead of the people correspondingly with resources, with organization, with structure, so that we can do the decisive in advance! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e57680	Next speaker: Mr Harald Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e57701	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, inquiry answers are always an interesting find pit, and we have often criticized that they are not carried out properly. In this case, it is a point which has always given rise to us and which has just been referred to, namely, the reference to data protection in an inadmissible way. I am a great advocate of data protection, but it makes no sense to call upon data protection if, in response, no conclusions can be drawn on concrete persons. For example, if you ask how many people who appear in your register have a waffle card, this does not allow any conclusions on people, so it has nothing to do with data protection. That is why I share the criticism of this answer. I believe, however, that if we have such discussions, we will actually offer a group of people here a space that they should not get. In fact, an own paragraph has been introduced to these refusals: ‘Famous connections’ means: This is a typical trap-off stock – if you don't find anything criminally relevant, you can apply it. I have always been an opponent of such traps, and we have therefore voted against them at the time, because if such persons are provoking threats, exercising violence, doing property damage – whatever – then they belong to them. That is not a question at all, I do not want to be impoverished at all, and if there is a danger from these people, yes, then one should access it. But what you're doing now is just sending a group of people who, for example, send arrest warrants to politicians, threatens the federal army officers, makes their own number boards, and similar things that you actually, when you get something like this, have to look at as spinning, here now offers a large space and represents it as the big problem. We have quite different problems – it is important to note this on this occasion. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If one now believes that one has to make contempt over this detour again those people who are dissatisfied with the government's corona measures and who also demonstrate them, then this is a very bad process. To say that right-wing extremes were at the demonstration, so the demonstration itself is a problem, is such a nonsense! With the claim that if there are five people marching along, all the others share 15,000, 20,000 of their mental attitude, one could destroy any demonstration. If they march next time at Black Lives-Matter demonstrations, are all participants also problematic? - It's such a nonsense! Please stop with such precepts and, above all, with such contempts, because in reality you make the population bad, and it is a further part of the population that is now emotionally on the side of the demonstrators. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We all know that we have already talked about a lot today: about the students who suffer, psychologically, but also because their training does not really take place; the teachers who have huge problems; Students who haven't seen a colleague for a year who can't have a social life at all, who may now give up their studies; the social demand that is taking place because home schooling is also a social topic; the employees, the workers, who are afraid of their job or who have already lost it, who may now be in short work, but who will soon lose this job; the entrepreneurs – we have problems of the special class there! If you play all this down and pretend to be just any spinners who question anything, you're driving a bad game with it. That is quite, quite negative, actually also for the credibility of this government, because there are good reasons to be against a lockdown. This is not a Justament stand, but there are now a number of studies, for example by John Ioannidis of the University of Stanford and many others. There are now at least 30 studies that say that the lockdown does not do anything, especially in relation to what it does to damage what it destroys in existence, which will bring it into the future. They are probably being contacted just as we do by all kinds of people, and that is not freedom. This is the son of the former ÖVP citizen from there and the green tourist leader from there and so on, people who are desperate and say: These aids don't arrive! I can't do anything! I can't do anything! I'm desperate, I don't know how to spend my kids there! How am I supposed to do this, home schooling and home office at the same time? – Well, what are these for people who claim that such a thing works? How strange can you be?- Oh, my God! And that's exactly what people are leaning against. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Therefore: Don't hurt the demonstrators! Interestingly, the Federal Minister has not said today that the right-wing is extreme, I believe, because he too has seen the pictures that videos show how many people have really gone along. This is a cut-out, a cross-
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e57773	Member, you have to make the final sentence, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e57789	Thank you, I'm in the middle of the final sentence, he's just a little longer. [[General hustle and bustle.]] The Federal Minister has not mentioned this today quite consciously, is my impression because he has found that this is a cross-section of the population, which is now quite horrified by the measures. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Therefore: Don't make the demonstrators bad, because with this you actually undermine the credibility of the government, and also it proves to be a poor concept of democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e57838	Mr President, it has now been a very long sentence. The next speaker is Mr David Stögmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e57866	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The non-governmental organizations have been working on constitutional protection for a number of years. People with anti-state tendencies have already been observed in Austria since 2014. Justice is also constantly dealing with this subject complex, with processes, with very scurrily and also with those that are medially reported and accompanied. At the very moment, a trial is under way in the Wels courtroom. There, the national court is dealing with a couple who have acted for the State Federation and who today have to testify to a jury. In doing so, these persons are burdened with the crimes of the anti-state connection. They should have expressed themselves clearly at events, also filmed videos and used them for the state association. The man, the defendant, was also tried to determine the abuse of the official force and tried to demand it. The judgment will still be expected today, in the next few minutes, it will not be awkward what comes out. Unfortunately, this process is not an individual case. State refusals do not even occur so rarely. Thus, there are always people who join as national objectors or citizens of the empire as well as well-known groups. Now the corona pandemic is added. This is a new aspect, because now, in the course of these anti-corona demonstrations and demonstrations, more and more of these well-known national refusals and citizens are emerging. The rallys – and I would like to see this already – are an expression of a free and democratic society, and it should also be possible in the course of the pandemic to comply with this basic democratic right with the necessary security measures. That's important. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is not particularly surprising that, even if it is scurrying, state objectors mix under anticoronademos. Contradictors and citizens of the empire or persons of this scene are close to the scene. They refuse recognition of the State of Austria as well as of its laws and democratic rights because of its ideology. This is a serious problem, which I would not somehow write down, reject or ignore. This ideology becomes particularly dangerous when it is interwoven with other ideologies such as right-wing extremism and conspiracy theories, which also exist around Corona. Thus, at the last court trial in Graz – in September 2020 – a member of the State Federation denied that it was Corona At all. The court then found that the largest anti-state connection ever established in Austria is precisely that state association. My colleague Schatz has already mentioned that the state refusal scene, which is very closely working with the right-wing extreme scene, is now finding a new breeding ground in the anti-corona demonstrations. Your answer, Mr. Minister, also shows that members of the government's refusal scene are increasingly participating in anti-coron talks and are trying to recruit new members, namely, under the cover of dissatisfaction with the measures taken by the Federal Government to combat pandemic. Not only the refusal of the state and its laws, but also the threat of others by disregarding rules such as the obligation of mask and distance are similar between those who refuse the state and the members of the right-wing extreme scene. These too use the anti-coron accompaniments and demonstrations as an opportunity for mobilization and recruitment. State refusals are not only about rejecting the state, but also about specifically weakening democracy in order to exercise self-justice. This is particularly dangerous in connection with illegal possession of weapons. That is why they are so dangerous, Mr President. It was not until July 2020 – the Minister has mentioned it – that several searches for illegal arms trafficking took place in Germany and Austria. These investigations are likely to violate the War Weapons Control Act and the Weapons Act. These are arms deliveries between 2016 and 2018 with references to Germany and also to Switzerland. In November 2020, illegal weapons were also found at the Raccia in the extremes of law, which partially contained persons with a genuine ban on arms. For years now, it has become clear how the upgrade efforts of the right-wing extreme scene are increasing. Such internationalisation and cooperation across country borders, as they have revealed the investigations, are an enormous alarm that should give us some thought – and we should act accordingly. Mr. Minister, this is an up-to-date issue. We must continue to work on this and take urgent measures to minimise this risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e57933	Next speaker: Mr Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e57957	Madam President. Minister of the Interior! Mr State Secretary! High house! It's the second time in a very short time: Also last week you were here because you were invited by us to comment on an insufficient response. Today we have it again. I hope that this will, in general, improve the quality of the responses – there was a whole series of questions also from our group that were not answered de facto – because I consider this to be very necessary. To come to the specific question: You simply answered the question raised by the colleague, treasure, against how many in this scene of the refusal of the state, than a ban on arms: We don't know, we can't tell you that. - You don't want to tell us. I think this answer is very dangerous and, in fact, if I may say so, very, very poor. The issue of arms bans has been very delicate in recent weeks. I remember the terrorist attack on the 2nd. November of the previous year, which triggered exactly this debate, why a ban on arms was not imposed – which should actually happen automatically under § 12 of the Waffengesetz. I remember: § 12 of the Waffengesetz states that if abusive use against body, life, health, property, and so on, an arms ban would be imposed immediately. The National Police Department has not done this in the case of the terrorists. In an answer to a question to us – you have given an amazing answer and you have carried it out – you have meant that there is no automation here. I believe that especially on such delicate issues – whether the non-stater is, are the condemned terrorists or jihadists – if such a person has been condemned in any form if a judgment has been delivered to the National Police Directorate, if the Ministry of the Interior has to light up immediately and in the individual situations one has to look carefully and examine what is going on. In fact, you do not even know what legal possession of weapons is like. At least according to this answer you have no idea. There are 3,693 people who are known to you in the resort, and you can't tell us who has a gun passport or a weapons possession card. I think it's a real disaster that you don't have this data in the Ministry of the Interior or you can't just share it. This is a quite original approach as Minister of the Interior. In fact, I think that each of these 3,693 people would have to check immediately whether an arms ban would not be imposed after § 12 because, in some cases, there could be quite a risk of misuse of body, life, health, freedom et cetera. All the more important it would be that you do this or that your resort does it and does not look at it. We know that the issue of arms bans and weapons is very fast when it comes to prominent persons – quite rightly, the Dornauer case comes to mind – but that in the case of non-state objectors, it is clearly seen that you do not want to answer that, although the 2018 Constitutional Protection Report still uses the title “Intangible Connections”, which is quite dangerous – you have also said in your words – it is seen that you do not want to give Parliament the information and have not given it today, I think it highly questionable and quite dangerous.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e58006	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. [[18:17:04]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e58027	I shall now resume the negotiations on item 3 of the agenda. Mrs Angela Baumgartner, you are now the first speaker after resumption. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e58054	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Dear Seers! Ladies and gentlemen! From the urgent question about the conscientious objectors we now stretch the bow back to the parish package. As mayor of a financially weak 1 200-inhabitant community, I can only say: The second municipal package is extremely important and good. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I cannot fully understand the criticism of SPÖ and FPÖ, especially the accusation by Mr Rauch of the FPÖ that the municipal package cannot be picked up. I have already said one speech and would like to repeat it: The share of own resources can very well be applied. [[Abg. Smoking: Who?]] As an example, I take my community: We postponed a project from 2020 to this day, because due to the large order situation it was not possible to start the 2020 project. That is why we are not taking the money out of the municipal investment package until this year. The same is true of many other communities. In addition, the projects launched in 2020 will be budgeted in 2019. The funds stand, and therefore many communities will pick up the money for the 2021 projects. Mr Leercher from the SPÖ! If you claim that we are not willing to cover income losses, I can tell you about my community: For 2020 we receive 126 115 euros from the municipal investment package. That's exactly the amount missing from our community. The loss of income is thus covered. If I hear from the opposition parties that ÖVP mayors call and complain to them, I must honestly say that I can't imagine that. We have a very good relationship with our mayors. Our mayors can come to us at any time. Both in good times and in bad times, we are there for our mayors. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The funds from this community package are not intended for this time, i.e. they can be used directly and quickly wherever they are needed. Funding from the Structural Funds is a blessing especially for the weak communities. As I have said, my community is, as I have said, financially weak, and the funds from the Structural Funds are, as I have said, a blessing, because we do not have local tax revenue, and therefore we need revenue as urgently as a piece of bread. Of course, in the crisis, because of the fact that we do not take too much municipal tax, there can also be an advantage. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This support package strengthens the liquidity and investment power of the municipalities, provides planning security and, in future, creates jobs. Dear SPÖ, 2.5 billion euros are not nothing. You have demanded 2 billion euros – now we have 2.5 billion, and even that is too little?- Oh, my God! This means 280 euros for each municipality. You have demanded 250 euros; now it is 280 euros – and that is still too little?- Oh, my God! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] - I really don't understand. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] Both the local government and the city government support this package, and all the more I am surprised that the SPÖ does not go along with this change of law – that FPÖ does not go along with it does not really surprise me. [[Call the SPÖ: What?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e58125	Next speaker: Mr Peter Weidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e58150	Madam President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The most important message is: The liquidity for the municipalities is ensured. Getting the municipal staff their salaries. The projects in the communities work and are on track, which is a good news for all communities and cities in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] When Federal Minister Gernot Blümel and the government made the decision for these municipal billions, the calls came from the mayors, like the mayor of Nötsch Alfred Altersberger, who said, that's exactly what we need at the moment. This allows road renovations to be carried out. This means that investments can be made in cultural institutions and for the volunteers. He asked me, Minister of State, to thank you for his help. Thank you many times for this commitment. Mayor Christian Poglitsch of Finkenstein has also said that we need this package – the investment billions as municipal billions in the first step and now this aid package creates liquidity. For example, the construction of a folk school in Ledenitzen was implemented. Now I also come to a red mayor, namely Günther Albel from Villach. It has requested 8.7 million euros, which are missing in the city budget in terms of income. Now the city of Villach gets 10.5 million euros through this package, ladies and gentlemen. It's overcrowded – and that's good. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I myself am Villacher Municipal Councillor and, like many of you, I also have learned the political craftsmanship in the parish hall, which is why I am very pleased. We will now be able to implement quite a lot of bike projects in the city that have been pushed to the long bank for years. This is only because of the federal support. An example: The Italian road in Villach is extended. This connects the village of Völkendorf, where I may be at home, with the Villacher city center. This is important because parents have long wanted to improve the traffic safety of the school path. With this we create perspectives, that is what Austria needs. Thank you, Mr Finanzminister – and we ask for support for this project, which is important for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e58207	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I ask the political groups whether we can come to the vote immediately. - Then I'll go like that. We shall vote on the draft law in 630 of the Supplements. There is a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Mr Krainer, colleagues, tabled an additional or amendment relating to Article 1. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for an acceptable sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. - That's the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Angerer, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Corona aid for communities'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Karin Doppelbauer, colleagues, on the monitoring of Community debt and investment. Who is in favour of this resolution? – This is accepted by a majority. [[133/E]] We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Karin Doppelbauer, ladies and gentlemen, on the abolition of state aid. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kucher, colleagues, on the provision of free FFP2 masks. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. [[18:27:11]] 4. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 1191/A by Mr Karlheinz Kopf, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, BA, colleagues regarding a federal law that amends the Account Register and Account Statement Act, the Financial Market Money laundering Act, the Banking Act, the Federal Tax Code, the Financial Market Supervisory Authority Act, the Securities Supervisory Act 2018 and the Economic Owners Register Act (607 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e58345	That's what we're going to do now. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Hubert Fuchs. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e58373	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Estimated Austrians! The draft law, which amends, inter alia, the Account Register and Account Statement Act, failed in December last year in the required two-thirds majority. Today, we are discussing this draft law and amendment. This amendment does not attempt at all to reorganise the unconstitutional nature of the changes to the Account Register and Account Survey Act. In this amendment, the SPÖ's wishes to the WIEREG have been shared, which we also share. This is why the SPÖ is likely to give its approval to this law. However, our constitutional concerns, also shared by the board of tax advisors and auditors and also by the Austrian Bar Association, have not been taken into account. The revision of § 4 para. 5 Accounting and Accounting Act is referred to by Minister of Finance Blümel in the legal explanations as “language adjustment” which serves the “clarification”. In reality – I said it here in December – it is not a clarification, it is an attack on the rule of law. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The proposed new regulation would mean that, in the course of an operational audit without any reason, a review of the account register can be carried out, even if it is merely a routine periodic audit and no, I do not stress any, justified and substantial suspicion of the inaccuracy of the tax declaration; that is, a pure sniff action. In the course of an audit, the trader should also be given the opportunity to disperse any doubts as to the accuracy of the declaration by means of a corresponding clarification before a review into the account register takes place. It should also be noted that the proposed amendment is incompatible with the Constitutional Regulation of the § 38 Banking Act on banking secrecy or requires a constitutional majority. This legal view is also represented by the Austrian Bar Association. For the same reasons, we also reject the revision of § 8 para. 3 Accounting and Accounting Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e58424	Next speaker: Mr Karlheinz Kopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e58448	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The fight against money laundering and, in this context, terrorism financing is one which, of course, must be carried out at an international and, in this case, at a pan-European level. That is why there are also relevant EU directives that we implement with this legislative package. Of course, at the end of the day, it is always a consideration of how much transparency or individual freedom one has to give up or limit in order to achieve such objectives as combating money laundering and terrorist financing. I think that this balance has been well achieved in the sense of law, but above all in the constitutional sense, and therefore the provision of information from this account register is for the money laundering agency, for the BAT, for the FMA, for the asset tax office, for the Federal Office for the Control of Corruption, for the security authorities and so on, and also for the further appropriate and necessary. This amendment, which is submitted today, also includes companies, foundations and comparable legal persons through the register of economic owners in the field of application if they acquire land in the country, because, of course, real estate transactions and transfers can also serve this unloving purpose. In other words, reporting foreign legal entities must report to their economic owners if they acquire a land inside the country. If this law also allows us to reduce VAT on protective masks to 0 per cent until 30 per cent and also the issue of mass testing for schools, then I admit that this is perhaps not necessarily the right place for right-wing aesthetics, but the urgency of these two measures makes it seem necessary to take this – and this was certainly confirmed by the Constitutional Service as permitted – into this matter of law. In this sense, I ask you for your consent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e58491	Next speaker: Mr Nikolaus Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e58512	Madam President. Federal Minister! We are discussing, as Mr Fuchs has already said, the same for the time being, the extension of the view into the account register, because now obviously three parties have agreed that they will suddenly find the pruning in the privacy of citizens in Austria and additional shocks for entrepreneurs. It's not much left of bank secrecy anyway. When SPÖ and ÖVP decided to consult the account register at the time, this means that authorities and courts can access this account register without having any appropriate judicial decision. And the account register is nothing but an inadequate storage of stock data, where it is held, who has an account. The whole thing happens without cause and makes no sense from my point of view. In addition, we have always warned of what would happen and how that would work out. It's exactly what we've been expecting. There were 6 200 views of the account register in 2017; 7 500 in 2019. We have therefore warned of this because we knew this development because in Germany exactly the same thing happened. There you have introduced it, and the number of insights has exploded in a very short time. I think this is basically wrong. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] Now put another one on it, also want to abolish the last one and hide it as a clarification. Mr Kopf has just said that this is only an EU directive that needs to be implemented. That's just not true, it's very typical gold plating. What ÖVP always rejects, it does in this context. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] It is just as Mr Fuchs said: In the future, it is also permitted to take a look at the account register during a normal routine audit, without any reason, without an opportunity for the entrepreneur to oppose it accordingly and to say that there is no reason for it and that the accuracy of the tax declaration is not at all to shake. This is particularly exciting because the ÖVP has been a bit nervous in economic policy and has always tried somehow to start a debate on a sensible proposal from us NEOS. Start with the simple things! Stop building the way for entrepreneurs with unnecessary shocks! You could start here. You don't do it, you do what you always do. They complicate it with even more bureaucracy and with even more insights into entrepreneurial freedom. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] If we want to fight money laundering, there is a very special event in recent days, namely the re-enforcement of Alexei Nawalny. It is precisely about such systems as in Russia that one has to try to create the craftsmanship, because there are quite a few – and in particular those who support the regime – who are very money-washing or also stealing from their fellow citizens. I had the opportunity a few months ago to meet the oppositionist Vladimir Kara-Mursa, who was twice poisoned. Fortunately, he survived both times and said that if the European Union wants to do anything for the opposition and for the people of Russia, there is a simple thing for that. He said: The people who rob us at home are those who then come to you to Austria or Switzerland for skiing, who spend their money there or maybe also wash. If you want to do something, then make targeted sanctions against these people. There are proposals here, there was a small proposal at European level. There's already the Magnitsky Act. If you really want to do something against money laundering, then punish these people and continue fighting there instead of suspecting innocent citizens in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e58581	Next speaker: Mr Kai Jan Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e58606	Ladies and gentlemen! Good thing needs a while. It is the second time that we have a debate on the implementation of the money laundering directive. For the first time, the necessary two-thirds majority has failed, this time it seems to be secured. We voted against at the time because we simply looked at how other countries have implemented this money laundering directive, and we have seen that the Germans have done something in addition, which we believe is reasonable. This does not exactly correspond to what Mr Scherak says, but goes in this direction. That means, for example, if someone from Russia in Austria buys a property via a company structure, it must be checked who is behind this company structure, and it must also be entered in this register of economic owners. That's what the Germans did. We said we'd like that too. I have to say that the talks were very constructive. We have made a proposal here the last time, and I must admit that what has come from the Ministry of Finance as an implementation was technically much better than what we have presented. Thank you very much at this point for the constructive contributions, especially by the ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Finance, but of course also by colleagues Head and colleague Tomaselli, so that we can decide on this together. I have respect for saying that there are data protection issues and so on, as Mr Scherak has just said, but let us look at what this means in practice: It means, when an audit is carried out and an auditor looks at the accounts and sees: Aha, who has three accounts in his accounting, then he can check in the account register whether he has only these three or perhaps a fourth account. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] That's all he can see. He can look at that, out. That's all it is. And if an account is not part of the accounting, then we all know that there is a problem because Of course, all accounts should be kept in the accounts. In this respect, I see no huge problem here, with data protection and such issues of course always important. I wanted to point out once again that we are also involved in the sales tax on masks and quick tests: The Ministry of Finance has interpreted the decision we had recently made on women's hygiene products a little different from that in the text. At this point I would like to thank the Federal Youth Office and the Members Petra Bayr and Eva Maria Holzleitner, who have drawn attention to this. We have not even, I believe, shown 48 hours to officials in the Ministry of Finance what we see here, namely that slip deposits are almost untaxable, although that is included in the text of the bill. This morning it was already on the homepage that they were up-to-date. That's good, thank you very much! I call on everyone to take part in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e58660	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e58681	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! The FFP2 masks, which everyone will soon need, will be tax-free; this is wise, but what you do with the FFP2 masks is really no longer to be done. What you have sent to the generation of over 65-year-olds in Austria is material from China, certified in Turkey. The certificate doesn't find anyone. I don't want to know the quality of what you sent there. You didn't tell the people: If an FFP2 mask gets wet, it's gone. The stuff works with electrostatic charge, only then it works, and once the thing has been damp, it's broken. You can forget the reusability, even if the experts you hugged are trying to talk to people. On the contrary, the Robert Koch Institute explicitly does not recommend FFP2 masks for private use. This is personal protective equipment for professionals, but you now prescribe it for Hinz and Kunz. Instead, one should have put on another product, on CWA masks. As a result, the EU has defined a standard that is daily: Masks for citizens, masks that are reusable, which are washable, which offer 99 percent protection effect and which would have been at half the price of an FFP2 mask. There would have been more manufacturers in Austria, which could have been technically released in Austria too. There is no certification office for FFP2 masks in Austria, that's all you have to get abroad – that's the way you pretend to support the domestic economy. In reality, we import scrap from China in a large style.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e58715	Mr Kassinger spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e58741	Madam President. I would like to speak on business treatment because In the context of this item on the agenda, there is an amendment tabled by Mrs Tomaselli. This amendment concerning the Federal Tax Code includes amendments which have nothing to do with the Federal Tax Code, namely the VAT Act and, above all, the Medical Products Act. In our view, this is not covered by the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, so we do not think that this amendment should be negotiated, because there is no link to the German tax system which is currently under negotiation. It is about the Medical Products Act, which is not even on the agenda. Therefore, I would like to examine you – in accordance with the criteria, I quote here a request from President Sobotka from 2018: ‘A review of amendments [...] with regard to the formal criteria’ – whether there is a content link with the subject matter under negotiation. We do not believe that this does not exist, and I would ask you to examine this and, if you think so, not to negotiate this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e58776	Is there another word on business treatment? - That's not the case. Given the length of the amendment, President Sobotka has already caused the distribution, so it seems that you have it. He hasn't been brought in yet, you mentioned this briefly. That is, Mrs Tomaselli, perhaps if you make the request, you can also address the context. You are now speaking, Mrs Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e58816	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home in front of the screens, there are no ones here! We already have a happy message to announce today, I think, because today we are adopting a law that actually thinns the air for criminals in terms of money laundering and tax evasion, and that, I think, is already worthy of applause, ladies and gentlemen. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Money laundering is not, by the way, a cavalier offence, but in most cases it is about financing serious criminal mafia structures, and it is also necessary to say that it is partly – at present – also about the financing of terrorism. We believe that today, with the law to be passed, we are giving control staff – that is the core of this law – new, efficient instruments, because money laundering – not only in money laundering, but also in money laundering – already applies to the principle: Trust is good, but control is still better. A few years ago – and we must not forget that it was not that long ago – Austria had almost landed on the international smolder list, but since then it has done very, very much, especially in the banking sector. But we still have other money-laundering sectors, such as real estate, jewelry, but also the gambling industry, and yes, indeed, you can do something else. Straight In these sectors one should strengthen the control again, because if I can sum this up with a sentence: Buying an apartment with a suitcase full of cash is not one of the fundamental rights. But you might almost think, ladies and gentlemen of NEOS, that you see this in a different way. To be honest, we don't have so much understanding that you have a protective hand on money-laundering and criminals, because what – again – do we decide today? – It’s specifically about understanding the account register, and it’s also very important to explain it again: The account register is a database, as there are information about how many accounts someone has, but there are no information about accounts or movements, for example. So if you, and this also applies to you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, compare it with pruning or, as you, Mr Scherak, call it a shock against entrepreneurs, then I must tell you that this is simply unacceptable panic. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. It's a kilnauer.]] However, I am particularly pleased, above all, with the amendment. Thank you again for the constructive cooperation, Mr Kopf, Mr Krainer. Mr Krainer has already explained it very, very well: The amendment basically notes that foreign companies buying real estate in Austria must also register with the economic owners. Why is that important? – Because so far Russian oligarchs have been preferred in terms of information obligations to each normal owner. That is what we are changing, and that is a good thing, because international money-laundering companies hate transparency. In this sense, we do exactly the right thing. We see the new law so that it is the next blow against criminal financial structures as well as a next step towards the elimination of money laundering and terrorist financing, which must be our goal. I have already begun to explain the proposal in its basics – I have to add it now to make the suggestions enough. This is not only about changes to the Account Register and Account Survey Act, but also about the Federal Tax Code, in particular – the colleague has already mentioned it – we reduce the VAT on protective masks to 0 percent. I would therefore officially like to see the amendment tabled by Mr Karlheinz Kopf, Mag. Nina Tomaselli, Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the Account Register and Account Statement Act, the Financial Market Money laundering Act, the Banking Act, the Federal Tax Code, the Financial Market Supervisory Authority Act, the Securities Supervisory Act 2018 and the Economic Owners Register Act, in the version of the Financial Committee report (607 d.B.==References== Thank you. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[18:51]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e59160	The amendment has now been tabled. He is, as I see, sufficiently supported. He was also distributed in the hall. The inadmissibility of an application could, or would, only be determined in agreement with the President in the sense of a uniform presidency. After consultation with Parliament's Directorate, it has taken the view that, since these are amendments to the Federal Tax Code, they are admissibility when drawing up the amendment croquis which I have tabled. We can, however, put this item on the agenda for the next presidential conference. The amendment has now been properly tabled in accordance with my explanations and is also under negotiation. [[Abg. Kassinger's got that hand.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, you have yet to report on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e59201	Madam President, thank you very much for your assessment of admissibility. They come to a different result than President Fischer in 1997 and President Prammer in 2012. They clearly conclude that there is a context of content – Mr Tomaselli has not been able to explain this context with a word. What's this about? – This is a far-reaching change – once again – of the Medical Products Act, which is not even on the agenda, which has now been granted and approved by you on a change in Article 5 of the Bill on the amendment of the Federal Tax Code. Since I assume that the Federal Minister for Finance is not the competent minister now, who can answer us questions about the medical device law, that can only be the Minister of Health, I am submitting the request for the appropriate Minister of Finance, namely the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e59237	Are there any further statements on business treatment? - That's not the case. If that is not the case, then it is agreed that we will only vote now if all political groups agree. I ask whether a part-session is to be held. [[Abg. Straster: Just a short break!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] [[Further call at the ÖVP:Situation break!]] – A session break will be desired, so I will interrupt the session for 5 minutes, i.e. until 7 p.m. The sitting was suspended until 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e59293	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted session. After another consultation with Parliament's Directorate and also due to some decisions and regulations, as we discussed at the Presidential Conference, what the handling of § 53 para. 3 As regards GOG, we have now also agreed – as I said before and what I would like to point out – that we will put this on the agenda of the next presidential conference as an issue. However, what I said earlier – and this request for distribution has come before me during the presidency – applies that the amendment also amends the tax rules and is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. However, I have a request, namely a request from Mr Kassinger on business: The National Council, in accordance with § 18 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure Act require the presence of the Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection. I now ask whether we can come to the vote. - Well, then I'll go like that. A debate on this request was not required. That is why we come to the vote. Who agrees to the request for the resumption of the Federal Minister? – This is the minority, rejected. That is what we are continuing in the debate. Mr Gernot Blümel, Federal Minister, spoke. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e59356	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to thank you for allowing us here in the House to ensure that it is the necessary majority for the decision-making and implementation of the 5. Money laundering policy. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] There are some enlargements, which have already been discussed, which include an extended understanding of the account register, as well as the possibility of using new technologies as well as an improved information exchange for the implementation of this Directive, and in the future also companies from third countries who acquire domestic properties will report their economic ownership in the register of economic owners. Thank you for being able to do so in this constructive way. Perhaps a word about the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats: I do not fully understand why NEOS are not going along here, especially since, in the normal case, transparency is always something that NEOS hold high in their demands. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] In this particular case, I do not understand this, especially with the same argument as seems to me, once that one and in another case the other is justified. What do I mean? – Mr Scherak’s argument, as I understood it, was that there is too sensitive data, which would then be accessible to a too broad public, and therefore NEOS does not agree. At the same time, Mr Double Bauer, whom I very much appreciate, at a financial committee meeting or in the Budget Committee, once told me that they are not going to the Cofag Advisory Council because they would be pledged to the banking secret there and could not carry out the data. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] I therefore think that this is a contradiction and I do not understand why you do not agree here, ladies and gentlemen of the NEOS. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] In addition, I hope that, despite the debates on the Rules of Procedure, the tax exemption of oral nasal protection, the so-called FFP2 mask, which is now intended to contribute to the further control of the pandemic, will also be implemented. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e59420	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Gerhard Kaniak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e59444	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! It is significant that, as Minister responsible for the amendment here, you, in your statement, are planning to amend the Federal Tax Code in § 323c para. 18 have not mentioned in any way, it is a change to the Medical Products Act. As you are obviously the competent minister, I ask you: What does § 113a of the Medical Equipment Act say? You are now changing it on the Federal Tax Code. [[Abg. Belakovich: How should he know?]] Apparently you don't know. This is bad, because it also has very fatal effects. You change the Medical Products Act with this bill you have here, in order to compensate for the mistakes made by your Federal Minister Fäsmann, by buying tests and claiming that they are suitable for lay application, and these tests, which are not allowed to do so, are now still distributed to students, parents and teachers without any appropriate legal basis. Now you want to repair this by so to speak avoiding the crisis paragraph 113a in the Medical Products Act and stating that any CE-certified test, suitable for samples from the front nose area or similar minimally invasive sampling, may be submitted without further examination, exclusively with reference to the manufacturer's declaration, not only to medical professionals, but also to laymen. This allows you to distribute the tests you have acquired in future in accordance with the law, but you can open lay advertising and direct distribution of quality low-quality tests to Austrian consumers, to the Austrian citizens' door and gate, and this is strictly objectionable. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I want to make it clear to you again: So far it has been so that all Covid-19 rapid tests were approved exclusively for use by medical professionals, therefore of course only to relevant persons and with appropriate information were resold and an application was not legally possible at laymen. With the changes in the laws you are planning here, every Chinese group, every international trading company directly on the consumer market, can go directly to consumer trapping through advertising from Austrian citizens, and tests that only once meet the minimum legal requirements, but are definitely far away from the quality standards we want for our health system, directly to Austrian consumers. What is next or what goes beyond this disaster is: We decided last week that if our citizens carry out the self- Use test at home, they must immediately inform the health authorities in case of a positive outcome and go into a 48-hour quarantine. Health authorities are obliged to confirm this result by PCR testing within 48 hours and to initiate contact tracking. Now, consider the consequences of removing quality standards and safety in the Medical Products Act, and put our citizens at risk of having to give them quality low-quality tests that were never intended to be used by laymen, and then the health authorities will have to work out all the wrong positive results if, according to the government's statements, we are already at this normal situation at the limit of the ability to manage the health authorities. This is difficult to negligently, which is a threat to the health and safety of the Austrian population, is not at all a legal link to the Federal Tax Code, but is precisely the opposite of what they want to achieve with your test strategy. Instead of protecting the Austrian population and giving them safety, open the door and door to quality tests that endanger health and safety in this country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can only tell you one thing: Cancel this request immediately! I can't imagine that this will be legal in any way, even if it's temporary. You do much more damage than you do. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e59493	The next speaker is Dr. Josef Smolle. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e59527	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to highlight it briefly from a medical point of view: It is a question of opening up the possibility of own-use for tests developed in recent months that are suitable for the front nose area, i.e. minimally invasive. There is an enormous scientific and technical progress behind it: At the beginning of the pandemic, we only had the PCR test that required a high-tech laboratory. There were then gradually easier to handle tests until one arrived at these anterior-nasal tests. We do not want more and no less than to allow this step towards the “living room test” – under quotation marks. The development is extremely dynamic. We are trying to take legal account of this. What's very important to us is: It should be free for all parties involved. There is another motion for a resolution which we will be happy to support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e59558	Mrs Mag.a Karin Greiner is speaking. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e59582	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This item on the agenda is also about the Financial Market Money Laundering Act, we have already heard it. In conclusion, I should like to say that one month ago, the SPÖ tabled an amendment to the Government's proposal. What was the content of this amendment? . It consisted in the fact that real estate transactions are also to be recorded under this law, in concrete terms that the economic owners in domestic real estate transactions should be included in the register of economic owners. In other words, notaries are responsible for determining the economic owners prior to registration of the acquisition of property. It is also important that this provision should apply only to third countries, because we all know: Within the EU and the EEA, money laundering directives are implemented unanimously and uniformly, but we also know that since 1.1.2021, UK is no longer a member and has since been seen as a third country. This amendment now includes third-country owners. This is a very welcome one, and I particularly welcome this further step towards transparency as the President-in-Office of the Council. For a week, this amended legislative text has been available – my colleague has already mentioned it. I would like to thank you: Thank you for the technically clean handling. We could have done the whole thing a month ago and already find a two-thirds majority, if we had already responded to our amendment and had considered us constructive. I might like to make a small critical remark with a smile, because between the lines the accusation always comes: Yes, the opposition is to blame that the law was not passed. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! The majority is clearly the responsibility of the majority in Parliament, i.e. the government groups, and we as opposition do not regard ourselves primarily as a majority recipient, not at all. We see ourselves as a political-contental constructive force. I am glad that this has now come to the conclusion, and I believe that we can decide with pride with two-thirds majority of this law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e59624	The next speaker is Mr Philip Kucher. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e59649	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Kaniak! – Now I don’t know where he’s sitting; there he is. – I have not fully understood your criticism of the test strategy. To sum this up briefly: Tests, tests, tests: No one will object that this is necessary, we have often discussed it enough here in this House. However, testing senseless mass testing, herb testing and beet testing does nothing at all; necessary as an essential step that we all get out of this crisis is targeted testing. Pamela Rendi-Wagner has also made proposals. We say specific professional groups, people who have a lot of contact with other people, must be tested, must get free tests. Especially in sensitive areas, such as nursing homes, it is necessary to ensure that the tests really work to improve the protection of the sick. This has not worked in the past as everyone would have wanted it. Nearly 3,000 people have died in nursing homes because it has not been possible to protect these people. An important further point to overcome this crisis is the vaccination of the area of testing. There is a proposal by Pamela Rendi-Wagner, which is now referred to as an essential access throughout Europe and internationally: for every man and every woman very low, uncomplicated Test offers for the living room. They will be possible through pharmacies in Austria in the future. Now to what you're saying now that it doesn't work: Yes, of course, we will not empower the Federal Government to buy some glue for tax expenses, of course the quality must match. In addition, this request is now also made that useful tests with which one can be tested at home be free of charge and made via Austrian pharmacies. This is a really important contribution to the protection of the Austrian population. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So I put the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] So to make this easy again: uncomplicated self-tests for each of us at home in the living room. I honestly say: If it is possible here in Parliament for the protection of the employees of this House and for the protection of colleagues in the National Council and in the Federal Council for weeks now to be fully uncomplicated, it cannot be said that this is too expensive for the Austrian population. Of course, the population also has the right to get the best self-test options in the future, which are uncomplicated, for example about pharmacies and at the expense of the taxpayer. This is urgently necessary and an important contribution to protecting the population: free tests in the living room. So I really ask for support and not to do any panic. What's going on here in the house and what's going on is to deny the population in truth: You can't work like that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[19:19]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e59798	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, it is properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. Dr Dagmar Belakovich is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e59825	Mr President. Federal Minister! It's a shame that since you're sitting here as a member of the government, you're not saying anything about it now. Mr. Kucher! I think I quote from this request: “The Federal Office for Safety in Health is not acting by official means in these cases. What does that mean? – You want to make an exception for this special test. Now I don't know the test, maybe it's also wonderful, the best product on the market – but what does that mean? – In the course of the course of the course, some junk products will flood the market, and then products will come with a 70 percent security. Have you ever thought about that? That's what it's all about! It's not about this one test here, it's about what's going to happen in the future. There are now the cheapests at dumping prices, and that's what anyone can buy. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what Mr Kaniak has said, because every time any of these cheap village tests that can't do anything, the authority has to take action. That is to say, these follow-up costs will have to be borne by the Austrian system, because some company can market a cheapest product in the Far East. By law, you have raised our high medical standards, not only for a test that may be really good anyway, but for any product that is subsequently on the market in Austria. You have to think about it, please. That's an insanity that's going to roll on us.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e59862	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Before we enter the voting process, I ask the clubs if a session break is desirable. - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 607 of the Supplements. That's what the Members of Parliament have to say, Mag. Tomaselli, Krainer, colleagues and others tabled an amendment or amendment. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Mr MMag. DDr. Fuchs vor. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts of the legislative draft on the basis of the supplementary and amending proposals referred to above and on the request for separate voting. Since the present draft law and the said supplementary or amendment proposal contain constitutional provisions, I am putting it in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. The deputies' head, Mag. Tomaselli, Krainer, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment or amendment concerning Articles 2, 3, 4 and Article 5 and Z3. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Kopf, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Tomaselli, Krainer, colleagues concerning the insertion of § 323c para. 17 in Article 5. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The deputies' head, Mag. Tomaselli, Krainer, colleagues have an additional or amendment request concerning the insertion of § 323c para. 18 in Article 5 and Article 8. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I also expressly note here the two-thirds majority as required by the Constitution. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This too is largely accepted. I, in turn, expressly establish the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kucher, Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Schalmein, Mr Schalmein, Mr President, on the issue of 'free antigen self-test'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by the majority. [[134/E]] [[19:24:58]] 5. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors report on the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, implementation of Agenda 2030 in Austria – BUND 2018/34 series (III-8/496 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e59979	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Magnificence comes to the fore. Carmen Jeitler-Cincelli. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e60006	Mr President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Court of Auditors often has a manageable popularity. Why? – Maybe because we look at things ex post often that contradict the topicality at the pace of politics in which we are. There's no such thing as paying attention to the past, but I think we can learn a lot from the past. Especially in the field of SDGs, a lot has been done in Austria, and I believe that this is also due, among other things, to the promotion of the Court of Auditors, to the fact that so much has been done. We now have a national progress report and many institutions that are strengthening, an interministerial working group, Think Austria is doing a lot, we have the Ban Ki-moon Centre, many civil society initiatives, a broad basis that works together there, for example, the Uninet in the Academia, SDG-Watch – many protagonists working there. I have now taken out of the debate, because the issues are very broad, an item on the agenda which seems to me to be important and appropriate, namely the SDG number 5, gender equality. There has been some implementation, perhaps related to your demands in the catalogue: for example, 30 percent of supervisory councils in large companies and more measures to promote women's careers. I heard a statement from one of our Members this morning, Wolfgang Gerstl. Today he was presented by Mrs Yildirim of SPÖ with a completely false picture, and it was said that he was the prototype for conservative women's and family policies. That's just not true. It's totally untrue. In my opinion, he was presented more or less as a chauvinist, and that is totally false. It is true that gender equality is very, very important for us in the ÖVP. The fact is that not only half of our government members are women, but also 37 percent of the representatives of the ÖVP are women, and we have an excellent minister with Susanne Raab. If you do, Mrs Yildirim, please move over the FPÖ or over Mr Kickl, there are only five women left. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan]] You have a female share of 16 percent – yes, Harald, 16 percent! – in their ranks. So if you're having a mom, please, not with us and not with us. We not only have 37 percent women, but they are great women, fighters, self-conscious, strong women. Congratulations! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] On today's point, the closing of the Genderpaygap: There is an excellent publication of the Agenda Austria, in which it is expressed that this is actually about a Motherhoodpaygap. There's only one very small area we can't explain. Most of them can be explained with motherhood. The pay gap is, as it were, in the pram because most of the mothers deserve less than their colleagues who have the same job. Now we have the corona pandemic, and I think the risk will be even greater. Home Office is to be welcomed in principle, but the women take on very, very much responsibility and are currently missing the opportunity that their colleagues and colleagues have, namely: Now, careers are being made, strong personalities are needed, and where is this happening? – At meetings in the office, at the corridor, in the elevator, on the way to the underground garage, where you suddenly see: Wow, there's one, he's flexible, he now shows strength, he shows a leadership culture, we can take it! That is why my call is being made here because I see this as a risk, because companies now also reduce office space or are thinking about it. Who'll meet? – The women will meet at home who are on their way in part-time, because they may stay in part-time. [[Abg. Stefan: The mothers or the women?]] Therefore, my call to all: Dear women, face the challenges! Dear men, support your wives to get back to the office, this home office divides you, divides your babysitting! Dear leaders, make it clear to you that only the diversity guarantees strong teams so that we join even after the crisis where we have stopped: to the successes of the past. Gender equality is the best instrument for satisfied families, for happy partnerships and for a thriving location in Austria. Let us all help so that this objective number 5 for sustainable development, gender equality, will continue to be met in Austria and we can join the past! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e60055	Mrs Petra Bayr is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e60076	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by thanking the Court of Auditors for its very serious, very long-lasting work on SDGs. This is truly plausible, so thank you for the report that we can now, two and a half years after it was published, finally discuss here too. That's fine, of course. I think we should see the SDGs as such and as a fingertip in the See the future. The SDGs are not there to print them in any beautiful, colorful CSR brochures and to say: We're so great and we're doing it all anyway!, but they're there to really screw up the sleeves and do something towards a sustainable future. What I was quite impressed with is the ÖGB or the trade union environment, which recently published a comic-style brochure, which addresses a few SDGs. [[Keeping in height]] The comic is still playing in Rwanda. These are very, very great things and very, very great initiatives, which are really about bringing these goals just closer to people, in the case of a young target group. The young target group, the young people, are also those who depend on us to create a world that is sustainable in which they can and can actually live well. We're in the middle of a global pandemic, and I can't hear these sagars at all: We have to get back to normal, we have to go back to normal, we have to restore the state as it was before. – No, the condition as it was before is not the optimal condition, a condition in which it has only been about growth, growth, growth. This is not a sustainable state. A condition where it is still the case that, globally, every third woman will be victims of violence, that is not a state to which I want to return. We really need to create a new world, and I think the SDGs are a very, very important fingerpoint in this direction. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Krisper.]] However, we need not only to adapt and modernise our policies in terms of content, but also to modernise their structures. The Court of Auditors has made very important recommendations for this in its report. As far as taking this agenda seriously, this future agenda within government structures, is concerned, most of it is still not implemented. I am very glad, Madam President, that there will also be a follow-up to keep you there. I am very glad to know that in your reviews you always pick out some of these 169 targets and are behind them, for example, when it comes to food waste. I am very glad that you will bring in and accommodate this topic everywhere via the Intosai, the global network of billing courts, and I very much hope that soon the time will come when the government will follow your recommendations, because I think it is the absolutely correct recommendations. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e60128	Mrs Astrid Rössler spoke. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e60152	Mr President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said that the Court of Auditors is sometimes in the headlines, especially when abuses are revealed. Apart from that, it is important that you take the audit tasks seriously, carry out them with a lot of expertise, and that is also true of topics such as how Austria implements the self-defined or adopted goals – the sustainability goals of the United Nations. It is particularly exciting that two and a half years have passed since the test report was available and that is why we can see what has become of the test results. The sustainability objectives combine social, economic and ecological criteria, are aimed at enabling a sustainable co-existence on earth with the eco-friendly economy, but above all with many social criteria of just living together, a peaceful living together, a life in cooperation and a awareness that the earth is not multiplyable and that we need to save our resources. Madam President, you and your team have worked out a lot of expertise in the report, where recommendations are appropriate and where there is still a need for implementation. Fortunately, a lot of positive things have happened in these two and a half years. In the summer of 2020, i.e. last summer, the National Voluntary Implementation Report on the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals has already been presented, which shows in the prospect chapter that an entire list of recommendations has already been implemented on your part. This is a big step towards concreteisation. The structures it needs have already been defined. A particularly important chapter is the way in which the government, in implementing all groups, involves all the parties involved in a country. With SDG Watch Austria, there is a highly skilled and committed group in civil society that is working towards implementation. Science, cities and communities, the economy and the social partners must also be involved. Further steps are planned for this purpose. A decision was taken in December 2020 to address more specific recommendations from the prospect chapter of the National Voluntary Implementation Report. The next level of governance, the involvement of Parliament and the above-mentioned groups has already been brought a long way forward. I would like to thank you for your expertise. The United Nations' sustainability goals in particular show that this is not only a future mode, but also a crisis mode at the moment. All disciplines must be translated in such a way that they also show possible solutions in crisis situations. The example of the biodiversity crisis, which is closely related to the climate crisis and now also to the health crisis, shows: The species wound is essential for biotenoses, for the overlapping of diseases on humans and for their rapid spread. The sustainability goals are therefore also key or guideline to develop solutions and to survive crises together – I say together, because cooperation, cooperation, peaceful co-existence, fairness, for example in the distribution of vaccines, are demands as to how to live together more justly in this world. This also gives a guide on the economic crisis: Employment, training, training, especially of young people, by all means, full employment, of course equality – many of the issues raised here today are part of the sustainability objectives and thus part of the report and the recommendations for further implementation. I'm glad there's already support from the other clubs. I would be very pleased if, in this part, there was also a debate by male colleagues that this would not only remain a soft theme to which women talk about ecology and equality. We need complete expertise, especially when it comes to the economy, when it comes to finance, the financial markets, as I wish for increased cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e60209	The President of the Court of Auditors is now speaking. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e60234	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! When I read the agenda today, I thought that we were starting with item 5 and that is likely to happen at noon to discuss the Court of Auditors' eleven reports. We've been slipping back into the evening hours. However, I am still pleased when the National Council is discussing the Court of Auditors' reports. We have a wide range of topics from a wide range of areas on the agenda today. The first report concerns the implementation of the sustainability objectives. It is important for the Court of Auditors to be able to deliver impulses and suggestions where we see potential for improvement. In other areas, we will then be talking about care later, for example, it is about initiating urgent reforms. Back to sustainability objectives: This is about raising awareness and making visible the state of implementation, namely the national implementation level, in those sustainability goals that have been committed to the United Nations. Why is the Court of Auditors concerned? – The Austrian Court of Auditors is the General Secretariat of the Intosai; the Intosai has committed itself to examining the overall progress of implementation within its States. The first part of the review is the examination of the national approach to the implementation of those sustainability objectives. The Austrian Court of Auditors also plays an active role here worldwide and makes this visible on the Intosai homepage. Ladies and gentlemen! The agenda was decided in 2015 and we discussed the sustainability objectives in November in the Court of Auditors. We already presented the report in July 2018. We were one of the first invoicing courts to adopt this issue. I do think that this issue has not yet been taken into account. Probably the reason is that in highly developed countries with a high standard of living, the issue is hardly a matter, because you already have an above-average standard of living, and you think you have little to do with the goals. Otherwise, this is in the less developed states. Austria made a progress report on the High-Level Political Forum very late in the EU comparison, namely in July 2020. Now that we have experienced a year of Covid pandemic, we have been told that global developments do not stop before Austria and that sustainability must be given a high priority. We know how important health is, how important education is, gender-based remuneration has already been addressed, and resource conservation is also a topic in times of climate change. We have seen and experienced how vulnerable mankind has become and that, to quote Mrs Bayr, this is a sign of the future. I would like to thank all the Members who appreciate that the Court of Auditors is working there. This means that sustainability means that we have to consider the consequences of our actions and actions and bear the responsibility for them. Accounting courts contribute to sustainability by requiring and reviewing the accountability reports and transparency of the public institutions. This creates the trust that is so urgently needed. Ladies and gentlemen! As has been said, we have been presenting this report for a long time. We have already started a follow-up review. We'll see, What's still open. From our point of view, there was a lack of general government priorities and the overall strategy. The current overall strategy must concern all organisations, all local authorities that concern stakeholders, civil society and science. I would like to stress that the 2021 budget has created a link between the sustainability objectives and the impact targets. I think this is a first step. Yes, we also consider individual sustainability targets. We have a food waste test in progress and will always look for points in our tests. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e60289	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Court of Auditors and continue to complete the agenda. [[19:44:24]] 6. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors report on educational institutions of the political parties – series BUND 2019/30 (III45 and Zu III-45/497 d.b.) 7. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report on mandates for advisory services and studies in selected departments – BUND 2020/30 series (III-173/498 e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e60332	We come to points 6 and 7 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Franz Hörl has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e60367	Mr President. Madam President. High house! I would like to look at the report which deals with the educational institutions of the political parties in the near future. All political parties represented by more than five delegates in the National Council receive support for their political education work under the Public Service Promotion Act. It is EUR 10.50 million that will be allocated to the parties, according to their size ratio. At periodic intervals, this will be reviewed – that is good – and I am referring to the 2018 examination, which includes the 2012 to 2017 review period, in which at least two national Council elections took place, 2013 and 2017 – a truly moving time, a politically very moving time. Only three parties were represented in Parliament throughout this period, the ÖVP, the SPÖ and the FPÖ. The Greens only until 2017, the NEOS from 2014, the Stronach team from 2014 to 2017, the BZÖ left Parliament in 2013. A total of seven parties were examined, so seven reports or seven booklets were written about this. The reviews were very different. The political academy of the ÖVP – I am proud of that – got away very well. There was criticism of the granting of a loan for the renovation of the hotel in which the educational establishment is located. This measure has been efficient, effective, but has been criticized – the loan has been repaid, and that will no longer happen. I cannot understand the criticism of the Institute of the ÖVP for too many international contacts. We, the ÖVP, are the European Party, the Party of Alois Mock and the Wolfgang Schüssel and the Party of Accession to the European Union. It's in our DNA that we're on the road internationally. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] As a young man, our Federal Chancellor Kurz has also created an international reputation and a great standing in the world. With him also international air blows in our party headquarters. And this crisis also shows that we are no longer going on with national forces, but that we are urgent – urgently! – we need to look back at the fact that we are going down national borders. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] I just want to emphasize something: It is currently true that exports and industry are running well, because the borders are free, the internal market is functioning. With these compulsory quarantines, an instrument has been created to exclude tourism from the internal market. I think that it is also otherwise that it shows that we are not going on here with national borders. It looks a little worse with other parties. I do not want to go into detail here, but of course, Presidents like in your institute, Hilmar Kabas, were subsequently served with almost 300 000 euros. [[towards FPÖ]] In other parties, electoral means – not intended – were used for these institutions at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] The biggest problem, however, is that funds which are used indiscriminately, for which there is no bill or which remain even after a party has left Parliament, cannot be recovered. Since, I think, we should make an arrangement, because it cannot be that the future Academy of the BZÖ has completed its activity by over 65 700 euros and the Stronach Academy team has completed its activity by over 800 000 euros. It then operated the publishing house Frank&Frei. What else would he be called? But the biggest scandal is – and it certainly is not –: The Pilz list or later JETZT had at its end 1.4 million euros available for the Open Society Education Association. With these funds, the Pilz-Blog Zackzack.at is now being financed. This is a scandal, and this also shows the true face of the Lord Pilz! Madam President, it is good that you show this! I think we should have a chance here for Parliament to recover these funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e60449	The next speaker is Mrs Mag.a Karin Greiner. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e60474	Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Today, we are dealing with a total of eleven reports from three committee meetings and very, very diverse topics. I really want to thank your team at the Court of Auditors. Maybe a short treat from the last committee meeting: The Minister of Health has said that he does not know whether he is in the Health Committee or in the Sports Committee. - We know each other on all topics. Thank you for getting so well-founded reports on all the topics. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens as well as representatives of ÖVP and NEOS.]] I dedicate myself briefly to the educational institutions of the political parties. What amount is it about? – We speak of 10.5 million euros a year. How is this amount of funding discussed? – In the Advisory Council, in which all the political groups represented here in Parliament are also represented. This advisory council shall meet in the Federal Chancellery. What is the promotion for? – It is used for political education, in particular for the training of political mandates and for international contacts. What criticisms have the Court of Auditors noticed? – For example, lack of transparency in the case of fees or inaccuracies in the case of remunerations for activities which would not have been payable on and on themselves, so there have also been evidence problems. However, I do not address the detailed reports to the other political groups. It can read these detailed reports to everyone, and I believe that it is the responsibility of the respective political party to answer possible open questions. How does the Renner Institute look? – I am allowed to report that the Court’s recommendations have already been implemented. On the one hand, this was about reserves that flow into educational work – which is also desirable – and, on the other hand, the accountability reports that were drawn up only after the Journalistiksförderungsgesetz two years ago, but also after the profit and loss bill. The recommendations were therefore implemented. I can conclude by saying: What do these incentives mean? – They mean a lot, especially in terms of democracy policy. Essentially, this is something that must apply to all of us – that these funds are used transparently and truly very comprehensiblely for taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e60519	Mr Wolfgang Zanger came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e60543	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! This is not just a matter of political academies – my colleague Kainz will say something about it – but also a report presented by the Court of Auditors in relation to advisory services in selected ministries. That's where he showed a lot. A key insight: Before an external mandate takes place, the internal special knowledge should first be asked and how far you get from it. – Well, that’s actually what the house mind says: first, ask the internal resources and then forgive them outside, because everything costs something anyway. Furthermore, on the basis of an example from the Ministry of Social Affairs, he found that a contract for strategic communication advice was awarded orally and without comparative offers and, of course, derives from the fact that comparison offers are obtained and contracts are to be concluded in writing. This is also a no-na-net story, because it should actually be in line with the commercial obligation to make such agreements. With regard to the quality of requests, he has found something really interesting, something that we have never been able to achieve, namely that the quality of requests from the ministries – especially from previously red and now, of course, still black – is very, very poor. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] That was almost a new insight for me, but after All the colleagues of the other groups have joined this knowledge of the Court of Auditors, I have now taken note of it. Madam President, as far as your request to publish ministerial studies is concerned, we can only support you. That's something that makes sense. And if we're already in the studies, One is obvious, namely, the one with regard to the opening of schools. I call on you, esteemed government parties: Lock up the schools again!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e60595	Mr David Stögmüller came to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e60661	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors is today presenting an audit report on the funding of party academies, and as we all know, there is little money in it. Accordingly, it is also important that we control this; I do not want to repeat everything that Members have said. Perhaps something new is that a number of improvements have already been identified in the course of the last audit of party academies. What happened to these proposals? – In 2015, a draft was drawn up at the Federal Chancellery in order to achieve an amendment to the Public Service Promotion Act. It has not been given in consideration or in parliamentary treatment, it has actually disappeared. However, this does not change the fact that it is time to take up and change some of the points raised by the Court of Auditors. One of our major concerns is, for example, the question of cooperation, i.e. the possibility of cooperation between party academies with third parties, such as universities or colleges. I'd like to explain this briefly: An educational academy must always have the leadership at an event, otherwise cooperation is not possible at all. At the same time, however, the academies are stopped to use their resources sparingly and effectively. However, the management of an event also means an enormous and increased financial effort to implement this, I do not want to talk about personal commitment. You could make a lot more economical if you could avoid third party providers or make use of them accordingly. This is a problem, but some do not want to, because third-party providers can be cheaper as well. With regard to the social tasks that we as parties and party academies also have, it is not necessarily reasonable and simply does not fit together if one resorts to the cheapest provider there. Moreover, if one has to conclude such demanding cooperation agreements, it is not easy to find partners in which the interests of the respective parties are kept. This requires an uncomplicated solution, for example, that the academies should hold the leadership in cooperation, but with the exception that cooperation with other party academies, which would also promote the interideological discourse, and be made possible with universities and technical universities, especially at meetings and event series where the leadership of a political The party is neither economical nor useful, but in which participation could best be in line with the legal mandate of citizenship education, to which educational academies must fulfil. Another point which I would also like to welcome if there were to be an amendment is the restrictive requirements on the administrative burden in the field of international education work. Academies that do a lot in this field cannot respect this value at all because it is not based on actual expenditure for international educational work, but on a fixed reference value. This is extremely difficult for parties that are highly interconnected in different groups and structures, whether European or international, if not quite impossible – and honestly: not even targeting. Madam President, you see: The points in the Court of Auditors report will be taken up, and I hope that in the next few weeks an appointment will be made with all the political groups in order to make further progress on the necessary legislative steps, because I believe that we party representatives here in Parliament are also responsible for how the directives should be designed for our educational institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e60712	Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e60733	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! High house! It has already been mentioned: Over the last few months, we have dealt with a lot of reports in the Court of Auditors – three committee meetings – which are now being discussed here. This is, of course, a wealth and diversity with which we can show how this committee has worked together. I would also like to focus on the educational institutions in my speech, but I do not want to address the individual – I think that, as Mr Greiner has already mentioned, everyone can read this for himself; I also think that everyone should come at his own door – but rather look at the entire system. We have included the years 2012 to 2017 in this report. A total of 62.5 million euros spent on the educational institutions of the parties – this is quite an ordinary batch of money. In my view, the Court of Auditors has rightly complained that it is often or at least not quite understandable, why and how these funds are used. It has identified significant shortcomings, both in the individual institutions and in the overall system. On the one hand, the Court of Auditors has complained of the storage of books, of documents, of the documentation for which the funds are spent. In my view, it is not quite understandable why there are no legal frameworks that are quite clear, because, of course, it must be understandable to the Court of Auditors, but also to anyone else who checks, whether funds have really been committed or not – and this is not always the case at the moment. The reporting obligation of the institutions or educational institutions of parties no longer represented in Parliament has already been addressed by Mr Hörl. There is also a need for clear rules, no matter what the political group on this matter, because it must be clear what happens to the money when we leave Parliament. It can not that there are academies sitting at several million euros and then we as taxpayers and the Court of Auditors are no longer comprehensible what happens to this money. Going there requires clear rules quickly. In addition, the concept of appropriate use should be clarified. There, I think, the Federal Chancellor is calling on us to submit as quickly as possible to how to deal with it. In principle, there are many measures to be taken, and the Court of Auditors has shown a great deal of criticism. I believe that, as a Parliament, we should consider ourselves over a short or long time, at least in the medium term, a correspondingly comprehensive innovation and not now regard it as the final report of the Court of Auditors. We should really enter into a concrete discussion on how we can improve the relevant laws. In the short term, I think we also have to take measures, because, as a parliamentarian, I now know the systems, it is unfortunately a little longer here. It is, however, necessary to change these concrete points which I have already mentioned as quickly as possible, and I am therefore now submitting this motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think it is time for us to start preparing a larger litter here, but that would be the first steps that could be taken as quickly as possible to ensure that education institutions are really working effectively. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[20:02]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e60849	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, it is properly put in place and is therefore also under negotiation. The word is now Laurenz Pöttinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e60876	Mr President. Madam President. I would also like to thank the Federal Ministry for Labour, Family and Youth, the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs and the Federal Ministry for Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection for the detailed report on the assignments of consulting services and studies in the field of the Federal Chancellery. The period under review covered the years 2014 to mid 2018. The focus was on 2017 to mid 2018. The Court of Auditors reviewed a total of 24 awards and a promotion of advisory services and studies with a total contract volume of around 3.3 million euros. With a volume of about 2.9 million euros, 19 of them were for the Ministry of Social Affairs and six for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with a volume of around 400 000 euros. Of the 24 contracts reviewed by the Court of Auditors, in two cases, an invitation to tender for performance, 22 contracts received without form, was made directly as direct award. The Ministry of Social Affairs carried out the audited direct grants mainly without obtaining comparative offers. In the case of two awards over 100 000 euros, it was based on the derogation for research and development services provided by the Federal Procurement Act, although the contract was not covered by the derogation. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs awarded one out of five audited contracts without offers of comparison. Both Federal Ministries awarded orders in individual cases orally. In the Court's view, written procurement is essential in order to clarify the agreed performance content and scope. There was also a lack of performance in the event of loss of performance and billing. The Court's recommendations were largely implemented or implemented by the Federal Chancellery and the Ministries, according to my information. Interesting figures are provided by the headquarters study – such studies are also commissioned – because it recognises the enormous value of the headquarters for Austria. This has an amount of 19 000 jobs, an annual gross value added effect of 1.5 billion euros and brings taxes of 527 million euros. “Austria can rightly be proud to be a country of office. But not only do we have a spotable business card abroad, but we also have an economically valuable domestic resource.” – I can only underline this statement by our Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e60921	Member Alois Kainz has been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e60946	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Values Seer at home in front of the screens! The first party academies were founded in 1973. Today, 50 years later, they are no longer to be thought away from political everyday life. Party academies should promote citizenship, political and cultural education and the understanding of political, economic and legal contexts, such as through training, seminars and lectures. At regular intervals, the Court of Auditors shall review the educational institutions. From January to June 2018, the Court of Auditors reviewed the educational institutions of the political parties for the period 2012 to 2017 as to whether the funding was used in accordance with the legal requirements and in accordance with the principles of economy, economy and efficiency. The Court of Auditors also criticised, inter alia, that the Federal Chancellery as a promoter does not have direct control rights. It is also questionable for the Court of Auditors to see how party academies whose eligibility is excluded from the National Council as a result of the withdrawal of their group have to deal with unused funding. Ladies and gentlemen, following the withdrawal of a club or individual mandates from the National Council, it does not make sense, in my view, for unused funding to be repaid again. I think it's important that planning is guaranteed for a long time. Finally, some events have to be organized months in advance, and a deposit is often already under way. If, after the withdrawal from the National Council, funding originally paid must be repaid, the work of the political party academies would be enormously difficult. In the interests of planning security and political independence, I think that non-used funding should not be repaid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e60979	Next speaker is Member Hans Stefan Hintner. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e61003	Mr President. Madam President. High house! In the course of the examination of the Court of Auditors reports, I was allowed to look more closely at the conduct of the Renner Institute from 2012 to 2017, for which there have been numerous recommendations. Some of them have already been mentioned: Staff expenditure in relation to the funding, guidelines for cooperation projects, the demand for a profit and loss account, comprehensive compliance and payment schemes; non-provisional reserves under the Public Service Promotion Act should not be used for budget losses, but should be used in accordance with their commitment; non-consumed funding should be further reduced and the purpose of the funding should be to be achieved. In the discussion within the Committee, we were allowed to note that most recommendations have been taken into account. Thus, the Renner Institute can also be given a positive witness regarding the implementation of these recommendations. What remains for me is, of course, the question of the further development of educational institutions and thus also indirectly the question of future party funding, whereby I am thinking as a basic official of the local and municipal level, which is particularly required. At this point I should like to thank all those who are politically involved, and this is the largest volunteer group in Austria, all in the parties, for making their free time available for democratic well-being. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this context, I also say that when reference is made to future financing, the special levy on compensation cannot be the final conclusion at municipal level. Yes, we need transparency, but we also need a mix of private, economic and public funding. Just as we need this transparency and the mix of membership contributions, donations, incomes and promotions, we do not need any injunctions, pre-conceptions or even the criminalisation of people and companies that contribute to democratic diversity.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e61049	The President of the Court of Auditors is now speaking. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e61073	Ladies and gentlemen! We are now dealing with two reports concerning the educational institutions of the political parties, the so-called party academies, and the commissioning of advisory services and studies in two departments. The party academies are concerned with funding from the promotion of publications, which are funding for citizenship education. The Court of Auditors shall examine this at regular intervals. We have also examined this time – we have already presented the report in 2019 – the extent to which recommendations from the 2014 report have been implemented. The reports include the individual party academies, the seven party academies, but there is also a general section of the report, which deals with the funding performance generally by the Federal Chancellery. We have made fundamental recommendations, which are also very much geared to the legal provisions, which, of course, are with you, the National Council, which is called upon, in particular, to lay down the rules on party financing and overall policy financing. We have also found ambiguities and shortcomings which make difficulties in individual parts, such as international education work. We have also seen, above all, that in 2015 there was already a draft to amend the Public Service Promotion Act. This draft has been concerned with how to deal with the loss of eligibility. That was the question of what was going on two years after the loss of eligibility. Should there then be an obligation to repay – yes or no? We have heard that there are some positions against it. But there is still something missing when the eligibility is lost, namely the report to the Court of Auditors, how the unused resources are handled. We noted in these reports that there was EUR 1.73 million in unused funds in 2017. And then, of course, it is also about control rights through the Federal Chancellery. Perhaps there is a control and transparency package in Parliament, where this can be included. Secondly, I come to the studies and the advisory services. This is the question: How much internal know-how is available? Where do you need special knowledge? Where do you need to buy benefits? How will the procurement regulations be complied with? How is the written nature of contracts relating to performance fees et cetera dealt with, as with the need test? We very much welcome the fact that there is an obligation to publish the studies through an information freedom law. However, we found that studies were very well published. This can widen their benefits. In a preliminary report, we have already put in place the demand for a standardised federal uniform procurement control to have an overall overview of the orders in the federal area and to be able to make standardized queries specifically according to certain criteria. These are the main points of the reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e61121	Thank you. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Court of Auditors and continue to complete the agenda. [[20:15:42]] 8. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum – series BUND 2019/46 (III70/610 d.b.) 9. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the implementation of the warranty with a focus on Anhaltezentrum Fürdenberg; Follow-up review – BUND series 2019/25 (III-40/611 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e61168	We come to points 8 and 9 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Already at the speaker's desk is representative Karl Schmidhofer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e61198	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Madam President of the Court of Auditors. High house! Values Seers at home! The aim of the Court of Auditors' follow-up review in August 2018 was to state the state of the implementation of the recommendations in the Annual Report entitled "Full Court of Justice" with focus on Anhaltezentrum Fürderenberg’. The General Report made eleven recommendations to the Ministry of the Interior by the Court of Auditors. According to the follow-up review, five of these were fully implemented, four partially and two were not implemented. A central criticism of the Court of Auditors' general report concerned the ratio of the displaced persons whose detention actually ended with an exit. At that time it was found that this quota amounted to around 64 percent. This quota could be increased to 83 percent in 2018 due to various measures taken by the Ministry in respect of return advice and good preparation of persons subject to leave. Generally speaking, there is a strong increase in the total number of displaced persons. In 2015, there were 1,492 people, 4 471 people in 2017, which means a 200 percent change in the comparison period. In 2014, on average only 7.6 persons were accommodated in the Anhaltezentrum Fürdenberg per day, and this increased to 141,5 people in the first half of 2018. This corresponds to an utilization of 74 percent. On the one hand, the Court of Auditors criticises the too low utilization of police stop centres, including Vodernberg, on the other hand, but notes a marked increase in this utilization during the period considered. A very important recommendation from the Court of Auditors, and Madam President, for this we are particularly grateful – I too, from my personal point of view – was the recommendation to draw up a security concept for the Anhaltezentrum in Vorderenberg, which was developed by the Ministry in cooperation with the Cobra operational command. The State Police Department of Styria made structural and personnel adjustments. It remains to be done, of course. A sentence, a final sentence not contained in this report: All employees, all those in use in these secondary centres, but especially in Vorsenberg, are particularly grateful for a special work in a difficult time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e61240	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the European People's Party (Christian - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e61265	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! President of the Court of Auditors! I also refer to the two Court of Auditors reports: on the one hand, to the report concerning the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum and on the other, to the follow-up examination of the Schubhaftzentrum Vorderenberg. I'll start right at the Schubhaftzentrum Fürdenberg – I'll take the horse a little bit from the back: The colleague has already mentioned it, it is a push-over centre, which has always been in public discussion, because the utilization figures were so low that the Court of Auditors said in the first report that it should or could also consider alternative uses if the utilization is not increased. I believe that this issue has been dealt with in the meantime, because the utilization has increased in such a way that the option of alternative uses of the Schubhaftzentrum Vorderenberg, I think, is from the table, and since the development is already positive. When examining the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum, the Court of Auditors report shows a very broad analysis of the Federal Office, starting with the organisation of strategy and objectives up to the staff. Staffing is a very important point, because the employment status in the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs in the last few years years has developed enormously: from not quite 500 employees in 2014 to more than 1 300 employees in 2018. There has been a strong human resources development, and this, of course, is also the great challenge. It was also an issue in the discussion in the Committee, whether there really is a common and good training criteria for all employees – one that I think is crucial to ensuring good procedural quality – and whether there are sufficient job descriptions, personnel plans et cetera on the other hand. In the answer of the Ministry of the Interior, one was a little lapidar and said: They all know what they have to do when there are so many asylum procedures. . I should like to point out that the Court of Auditors' recommendations are taken seriously and then try to implement them accordingly, because one must always be the main objective in this area: We need to see that we improve the decision-making quality and the quality of the procedure accordingly. This starts with the training of staff, goes through the qualifications and selection procedures of interpreters, to the external experts, to the experts who get them when it comes to determining age. This is a bundle of measures that are important and must work to achieve the objective we have, namely, a high-quality procedure in a short period of time under the criteria we want them to meet in a good rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e61304	The next speaker is Mr Wolfgang Zanger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e61328	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Schmidhofer, you've done this very well. Now I don't need to say so much to the Schubhaftzentrum Fürdenberg. You also mentioned the years in which there was really something going on, in which the arrest numbers, as well as the deportation payments increased. You know who was Minister of the Interior at the time? – It was none of your black brothers, it was the best interior minister of all time, Herbert Kickl! In fact, there has really been some touching in this country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I wonder why you don't thank me, thank you, thank you, but always direct it to your black ministers. This would have been heard at least once, because these achievements were really excellent, but I now do this from this point of view: Respect the best interior minister of all time, Herbert Kickl, for this achievement! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Koza.]] On behalf of the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum, which has also been examined, Madam President, you have also found some essential findings. Regarding the lack of a training concept, which would actually be logical from the outset, says the Minister of the Interior in the Committee, he is proud that he is now implementing this recommendation. He doesn't need to be proud of that, it's not a great achievement, it's a matter of course. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another question that arises over and over again and which has also been followed by the Court of Auditors is that of many, many citizens in this country: Why does it take so long for people who have no right to asylum in Austria to travel home? – The answer is also relatively simple: 20 years of ÖVP Minister of the Interior. [[Abg. Hörl: The kickl was also...!]] The Court of Auditors is asking for action to be taken in respect of the measures to end the stay, and it always has such a charming expression that I very much admire, Madam President, because if you say something like that, then in truth, fire is already on the roof, and there are all ÖVP ministers including now Nehammer summing up. The only one who did something there was the best minister of the interior of all time, Herbert Kickl, but you had to chase him out of office. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If he were still Minister of the Interior, this recommendation would have been implemented for a long time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] [[Abg. Weidinger:... also forget!]] Finally, there has been a question that Mr Nehammer does anyway – he obviously has a lot to do but to take care of what he is actually used for – namely, a question that is just as important and urgent, because it is also of budgetary importance: It would be more sensible to make restrictions on entry and ensure effective border protection than to pay a lot of money for the voluntary leave of people who have no chance of asylum anyway. But he did not and did not want to answer this question. In this sense I tell you one more thing that it is written to you in the main book – once again today –: Lock up the schools, it's not a prison!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e61465	The honourable Member is speaking. Georg Bürstmayr. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e61490	Mr President. Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. High house! A comment on the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum: On the margins of the Committee of the Court of Auditors, the responsible group leader assured me once again that the Ministry of the Interior is intensively working to improve quality management in terms of the BFA, the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum. This is a good news, because the so-called BFA heber ratio in the Federal Administrative Court has long been too high, and this should not be achieved by one of the larger authorities of Austria in the long run. A second comment – the NEOS resolution now followed – on the possible reception of children or families from Moria: It is true that the previous initiatives of the Federal Government have unfortunately not been successful. Neither has the relief services landed to a greater extent on site – but this is the responsibility of the government in Athens – nor has a childcare centre been established in Moria or Kara Tepe, and the general conditions in this camp are far too bad. The conditions in themselves are miserable, they are miserable as never. [[Abg. Kucharovich: That's why recording now!]] We Greens agree on this – all 26 undistinguishingly, from Vorarlberg to Burgenland, together with NGOs, churches, mayors of all parties and many people in Austria – that this country had room for 100 or 150 families. [[Abg. Kucharovich: That's why recording now!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We do not agree on this point with our coalition partner in this House. This is well known, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the NEOS, too, and you too will at least soon experience in Vienna that as a coalition party you cannot always vote in favour of what you had in your election program. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krisper.]] That means you can do that already, but there is a rule of Austrian domestic policy that one is in a coalition together, otherwise the coalition is over. [[Abg. Lord: This is what the Greens have...!]] I believe that this would be quite bad for us nine million Austrians and people living in Austria at the moment. So I appreciate your request – we will therefore not agree to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e61572	Mrs Dr.in Stephanie Krisper spoke. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e61596	Mr President. Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear spectators at home! How much a government respects and protects the basic principles of the democratic constitutional state is particularly evident in the way it deals with the marginal groups: with prisoners, with psychologically ill in action or with asylum seekers and asylum seekers. Today I speak to the latter, because there is also a lot in the arrogance. For example, the Court of Auditors again clearly criticised that the quality of the first instance at the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum is not guaranteed 45 percent, because the decisions are corrected in the second instance. These are abuses, which would not be allowed to happen in Austria permanently. Imagine that you would apply for a building permit and with 45 percent you would not know whether the permit would then hold in second instance or not. [[Abg. Haubner:... Mayor!]] This uncertainty would not please anyone, the more dramatic it is in these cases where it is potentially about body and life. Whoever does not care about the rights of asylum seekers and asylum seekers may be annoyed by something else, namely that because of this high error rate, many of those affected remain at the second instance for many years, because there are not enough personnel resources available to deal with the cases quickly. Many people are therefore forced to do nothing for a long time – a budgetary burden because they are not allowed to work, but also a hard fate for those affected. The most disturbing thing, however, is the following: The EIAs are the human rights of asylum seekers and asylum seekers even completely no matter when it comes to the fundamentals, namely the right not to be treated inhumanely. Yes, now I am at Moria, Kara Tepe, at Lesbos, at Samos, at Chios, when thousands of people, families and many children are in danger of life in the foreseeable winter and ice-cold situations in tents, especially on the ground of the European Union. Because people from the ÖVP are so happy to say there are playing with feelings: I think compassion is not a weakness. No weakness is a feeling nourished by the main value of our constitution and the European Union, namely human dignity, the basic idea that every human being is born free and equal to dignity and rights; Rights that no one is allowed to take away, especially the right to live in physical and spiritual integrity. – I miss the emotion of the ÖVP, the Christian-social ÖVP, against inhuman treatment and for human dignity. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Light peace.]] Emotion has the ÖVP elsewhere: The Federal Chancellor becomes “enraged and angry ” in the event of vaccinations, and on another occasion,“ the thread of patience ” “treasures him. ” But where is the emotion on this issue? – There are debt allocations from Chancellors and ÖVP ministers, pseudohelp from the Interior Minister, from Foreign Minister PR games with renowned organizations such as SOS Children’s Village, but in truth it’s overdue that there is anyone who can help to save only one person from this ice court to show what one stands for in order to save a few lives in order to save the dignity of the European Union to show that we are not in Austria. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ]] Many want to help, and this should be allowed by the supposedly Christian-social ÖVP. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[20:33]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e61719	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, it is properly put in place and is therefore also under negotiation. Mr Hermann Gahr has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e61746	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors has the Federal Office for Tourism and asylum were examined at three points: in the Regional Directorate of Vienna, in the first reception site of Traiskirchen and in the external office of Tyrol. The period between 2014 and 2017 has been reviewed, and the year 2015 has clearly been put at the heart of this process. There were over 90 000 asylum applications at the time, and there was a flood of applications – for comparison: In 2014, it was 28 000. In all, the Court of Auditors has made 41 recommendations; 24 have been implemented. The Minister of the Interior has said that 16 are in implementation, only one recommendation cannot be implemented. It has already been said by my previous speaker that there have been suggestions from the Court of Auditors on training, on information gaps and, of course, on quality assurance. In the meantime, staff increases have succeeded in speeding up internal processes and shortening procedures; the procedure is currently four months. In summary, it is therefore possible to say that this Court of Auditors report has brought improvements, improvements in the duration of the procedure and the quality of the procedure. Thank you, Madam President. But thanks also go to the Minister of the Interior that we were able to further develop and significantly improve the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e61786	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, too, I put the votes to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Court of Auditors and proceed in the completion of the agenda. [[20:35:59]] 10. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on drones in civil aviation – Series BUND 2020/2 (III-83/612 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors report on transport penalties – series BUND 2019/29 (III-44/613 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e61829	We come to points 10 and 11 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Andreas Kühberger came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e61859	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! I personally enjoy watching ski races on television again and again, and in Austria we can be really very proud of the achievements of our ski racers. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hörl.]] There you can clap, we are really proud of that – thank you for this applause, Mr. Hörl. [[Abg. Lighten: Are you actually by yourself with Hörl?]] Ladies and gentlemen, above all I remember a ski race that was held in December 2015. Maybe you can remember: When Marcel Hirscher went down and was also really good on the road, the ORF commentator Thomas Sykora cried out at once: The thing fell down, the thing fell down! – Thanks to God, the thing is not our ski star, but this thing that Mr. Sykora meant was a drone, and it’s about these drones today. The Court of Auditors has reviewed these drones in civil aviation, which was between July and November 2018. These drones have become a real trend in recent years. In 2018, more than 100 000 drones were calculated in Austria, which have partly been found professional but also in the private sector. Everyone probably knows them: This really makes great stories and casual things – photos, flight photos, landscape images, group photos and much more – but also the intervention organizations use these drones, and that is good, for missing searches, as well as the Austrian Federal Army and the police use them, in this case especially for border control. However, this also brings new challenges for the competent authorities, for example: If a photo has been taken, how do you find the culprit? Drones also play a role, for example, in terms of the terrorist threat and especially in the air transport sector. However, I would also like to mention the impact, particularly in relation to nature, the environment, when it comes to different species of animals, which must not be underestimated. In its recommendations, the Court of Auditors is particularly concerned with improving the identification of drones, as well as safety concepts and defence measures for airports. However, I would also like to add to the report that an EU regulation has entered into force in Austria at 1.1.2021, which regulates flying with drones, i.e. there are now registration requirements and online training. I would like to thank the Court of Auditors very much for this report.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e61902	Mag.a. Karin Greiner is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e61926	Ladies and gentlemen! I too will devote myself briefly to the drones. The report covered a period of four years, i.e. 2013 to 2017. Interestingly, the number of drones in Austria was unknown. Although there is an estimate of the ÖAMTC, the colleague has already mentioned it – about 100,000 are said to have been – but only 7 percent of the drone users have complied with the authorisation requirement. We know that under 250 grams they are not subject to authorisation; they are not subject to authorisation when used as toys. I am referring to the Court of Auditors' criticisms. One thing has already been noticed, namely that the authorisation procedure for the use of drones was a problem for blue light organisations in particular. The Cobra had serious problems because the duration of approval was just too long. We asked the director of the Austro Control in the committee, and she meant that this problem should be solved with the revision of the website. This should make the approval much easier and faster. What further Court of Auditors recommendation was decisive? – This was the recommendation to create an overall drying strategy. The Managing Director of Austro Control has assembled that this process is already under way and that drone competence management is taking care of this matter. It also concluded that a next step in this causa is a constriction with the airspace above 150 meters. So that's what we're working on. I would like to mention a central recommendation from the Court of Auditors. This is because the Court of Auditors believes that all major airports should really have a stationary drone defense system, which is a very legitimate requirement in view of the increasing number of drones. We can all imagine it, and some may also know: Suddenly occurring drones can become a veritable danger for aircraft. Finally, some current figures: Since the beginning of the year, the new EU regulation, which includes drones, has also simplified registration. Since then, 7 500 drone users have registered and 11 000 have also completed a driver's license online. This is also a positive development in view of the rising number of drones. The situation really needs to be monitored. It must be said that safety needs are also taken into account. I can say that, as a SPÖ group, we will look at exactly how this is developing now, and, of course, we will make appropriate proposals to ensure the necessary legal framework. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e61975	Mr Alois Kainz has been mentioned on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e61999	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Appreciate Seers! Most of you have probably already received a traffic penalty in their driver's life, whether because of fast driving, forgotten setting of the pointer or because of calling without a freephone device. Such a traffic penalty is annoyed, even if one is aware of the guilt. From November 2017 to April 2018, the Court of Auditors reviewed the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Transport as well as the countries of Lower Austria and Upper Austria and at the Asfinag the settlement and execution of the traffic penalties in road transport. In Austria, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Länder and the municipalities as well as the Asfinag are responsible for transport penalties. The actual traffic control is the body of the federal police, the toll supervisory bodies of the Asfinag and, if set up, the municipal guards. The operation, on the other hand, takes over the district chief teams, the criminal offices of the state police departments and the individual magistrates. As so many different posts are involved, a central and national administrative penalty register would be essential. Unfortunately, there is currently no such register, which is why it is hardly possible for the criminal authorities to cover any open claims for money or imprisonment outside their own areas of competence. Ladies and gentlemen, this makes the work of our criminal authorities more difficult! In my view, it is also urgently necessary to establish a uniform criminal framework, including a uniform level of penalties for road traffic offences. In the past, the Ministry of the Interior has drawn up a catalogue of federal acts, but it was not binding on the countries. This led to country-specific regulations that in some cases overimposed and supplemented the federal regulations. To give just a few examples: In Lower Austria, a penalty amount of 360 euros is provided for the offence-free succession, but according to the case-law catalogue of the Ministry of the Interior, the penalty amount should be 100 euros. The tolerance limits are also different according to the Court of Auditors' report. It may not be that in the case of identical offences, the fines in the amount, depending on in which federal state the transport penalty is committed, differ from one another. The Court of Auditors' criticism of transport penalties makes it possible to say objectively that there is an absolute confusion of competence. It is the legislator's task to ensure greater clarity and uniform rules. I hope that we can all use 2021 in the interests of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e62047	The next speaker is Mr David Stögmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e62072	Mr President. Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors report deals with drones in civil aviation in the period 2013 to 2017. Since then, a lot has been done in the field of drones, we know. Earlier there were drones relatively cheap to acquire in the final effect in any larger supermarket to a few euros. Really good drones, which fly stable and high and far, are well below 1,000 euros in the electrical stores. The problem that a lot of people have to deal with is that they are confronted with the question: Where do I sign that up? Where can I fly? How can I fly? When can I fly? Up to what height can I fly? – And so on and so on; this has been quite inconspicuous and extremely complicated. If one wanted to comply with the law, one faced the challenge: How do I even get to fly? Fortunately, there is also an EU regulation that entered into force with 1.1.2021. This creates uniform rules for the use of civilian drones in the EU and in fact leaves Member States a very low margin of flexibility in this area. An important key point in this is that a new classification by weight of departure will have to be made and a drone driver's licence for certain categories will have to be completed. You can also register online at www.dronespace.at for a few euros; I think that's 31, 32 euros. This registration is valid for three years. If that's done, you can fly your drone. This is relatively favourable, I think, the costs remain within the scope. If the Austro control is still in place, as is also required by the Court of Auditors to become even more flexible in terms of flight times, the drone fly can really be a fun or for many who need drones professionally – we think of photographers, structural engineers – as well as an asset, a further development. One thing you should not forget – and this is a problem in the area of terrorism, crime: Drones can also be used for criminal actions We are faced with huge security problems. In extreme cases, this can be the use of drones for flight-gear at airports, for a hybrid threat, or also for an attack, but also for smaller offences; for example, it can be remembered that things, utensils with drones can be flown into prisons. These possibilities open up with the use of drones. These are the problems which the Court of Auditors sees and for which there is still insufficient risk awareness in Austria. We believe that it would be necessary to take this risk of safety into account when presenting possible threats. That is why we must stick to it and, in my opinion, develop a strategy based on the first steps so that we do not lose the connection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e62120	Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e62141	Mr President. Madam President. I too may devote myself to the topic of drones. If you think back – probably ten, 15 years ago most of the people here in the house would have asked themselves: What is he talking about? – Nowadays, drones are present everywhere. They are now war equipment, they are used for border protection and are also toys. So it's really a bandwidth to cover up there. It was mentioned earlier by a number of colleagues that there are drones in abundance. The ÖAMTC assumes that more than 100 000 people travel in Austria weighing more than 25 kilograms per piece, which is quite a proper weight – if you compare this with birds, the least of these in the air are so weighty, so this also shows what danger it poses. If you look at the Court of Auditors' report, you can see a special feature in the whole subject of drones, namely that the drones are over-, under- and under-regulated at the same time – so you could summarize it. All these facets are shown in the report, and that is, I believe, quite exciting and belongs to us as legislators also more closely illuminated. First of all, it's a fact that only about every tenth drone is registered. This leads us to the very big problem – I have already raised the question of the weight class – that the over 25 kilograms of heavy drones are particularly dangerous – one is thinking of airports, but also of air traffic as such. I remember the accident on the Hudson River a few years ago – in fact, the weekend saw a doku on TV: It was a little bird that was hit there and such an accident – or just no accident, thank God! - has triggered. Here we see how necessary it is that we can track drones better in the future. There are technologies in which chips are installed, so that it can be really understood who flies where, and thus the protection of air traffic in particular can be better ensured. In addition, of course, the question is: Who can access or fly where?, a very big topic, and there again – if I imagine myself, in front of my bedroom or in front of my bathroom or wherever someone flies around with a drone – in particular the question: Who is responsible for this? That too is something that always leads to interpretation, and it It's usually not the case that in such a case the police can help. Because Karl Nehammer always says he'd like to get the flex out in order to be able to do more there or there: This is, I believe, an area where there is a close-up in Parliament for him to take out the flex and give the police the competence to act against it. If I understand the Austro Control, then it is until, for example, with colleagues Loacker in Vorarlberg, she does something so that in Dornbirn, in front of his window, the drone is gone, which drones have been flying away for a long time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Accordingly, this is not very useful in this context. Where drones are massively overregulated – and I really find that to be the hottest in this report – is, for example, in connection with their use by rescue organizations. There is also the issue of fire brigade in the report, which then suddenly cannot fly on the weekend. But a fire doesn't choose: No, I'm not going to ignite myself at the weekend!, but exactly in these cases, you need a drone relatively quickly, for example, to look at a forest fire where exactly a glow nest is. Other countries are doing this. California, for example, works very intensively with drones to control forest fires, and this is something that will, of course, also concern us more strongly as a result of climate change in the future. You see, it is – as simple as it sounds – a very complex topic when you discuss drones that still represent a toy for many. There are very many parameters to consider. I believe that the Court of Auditors has provided a basis for us with this report in order to be able to take further steps.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e62196	Mr Lukas Brandweiner came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e62220	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! The Court of Auditors report before us summarises the results of the examination of the settlement and execution of transport penalties. Of course, the employees have re-examined them in detail; at this point I should like to thank the President – please pass them on to the team as well! But now on the content of the birth test – I have tried to find some interesting things for the viewers too –: The review period is already a little lower, it has been examined between 2013 and 2017, and during this period the total number of organ mandates and ads has increased by about 0.5 percent. That is, the woa ned as nice as we say in the forest district, but it was particularly striking that the number of ads and organ mandates has increased significantly due to speed crossings, namely by 7 percent. In other words, perhaps we and all road users should get on the nose and try to keep up with the speed limits. On the other hand, the number of ads has fallen by a total of 16 percent due to alcohol and drug abuse – and I am pleased to say so. As I said, I think that is very encouraging. A critical comment was on the different fines – Mr Kainz has already mentioned this. This is, of course, the discretion that the authorities have. I think it's also important that they have a certain margin, But perhaps we should get together a little bit, limit the framework. It was also noted that we can save in the administration, use synergies. All we save here, of course, officials can invest in the security of the population. That means that this is always an up-to-date issue and one that we should always move forward. At this point, of course, I would also like to thank all the staff, all the officials and officials for the great commitment they have made throughout the year, especially in this challenging year, and may in conclusion also express the following as a request: I know the current situation isn't easy for anyone. You can believe us that the decisions to be made today are not easy for us in politics either, but I believe that looking into the world, especially in our neighbouring countries and beyond, shows that at the moment it is not without restrictions. That's why, as I said, my request: Let's go! Let us not fight people, but fight this really stupid virus together! I've been really tired myself, but we're only going on if we're fighting the virus together and if we keep it together, above all – and that's my request.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e62268	Mr Michael Seemayer came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e62293	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen. What is there to say about the drones? – Many of you have probably already experienced the feeling that this happens when suddenly such a flight object appears above one. The question is, of course: What does this thing want? Will I be watched? Who's responsible? You used to look around and look for a person with a large remote control and a long radio antenna – these times are over. Nowadays, drones are equipped with GPS and high resolution cameras, have miles of reach and are relatively easy to use for everyone. It's understandable that an unpleasant feeling occurs when such drones appear. The fact that this happens often becomes clear on its own because of the number: We have over 100,000 drones. Sales are increasing, so it can be assumed that they are even more. Only 7 percent of these are registered – we have already heard that. The reason was also stated that the registration costs of up to 330 euros were very high and the approval procedures lasted for up to several weeks. In this respect, it is very good that this is now apparently faster, easier and cheaper. It has also been mentioned that drones pose a significant danger, not only because they can fall from the sky due to technical defects and injured persons, but also in the case of negligent use, for example near hospitals, where landing places for rescue helicopters are located, or near airports. Whether this is going to happen or not: If the air transport of an airport has to be stopped because drones have been sighted, the damage is of course enormous. However, although rules have been made in this regard, such as the limitation of flight altitude or the establishment of barrier zones for drones, it is necessary that: are also known and conscious. This is where the drone driver's license, which has been mandatory since the beginning of the year, should help. Against the use of drones in criminal intent simply help only active defense systems. Although they are expensive and complex in handling, they will play a very important and central role in securing the airspace in the future. Whether the reliefs in the registration of drones and the drone driver's license will be sufficient to better control the use of these objects, or whether there are other possibilities or other rules, such as mandatory registration when buying drones, will continue to wait and we will observe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e62341	Mrs Mag. Ruth Becher. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e62365	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to refer once again to the Court of Auditors' report, which deals with the transport penalties for drivers. That's a lot of money. Overall, the Federal Government, the Asfinag, the audited countries of Lower Austria and Upper Austria took in around 310 million euros in 2017. The accusation that transport penalties are a form of money collection for the state is first dissuaded by the statement by the Minister of the Interior that there is control where people's safety is also to be increased, and the penalties are appropriately high. However, the report 11/2017 to 04/2018 shows something different. The then Minister of the Interior of FPÖ and ÖVP, among other things, are responsible for the fact that notorious shavers are punished no higher than people who have only once exceeded speed. The reason for this is: There was no adequate exchange of the district headquarters with the Ministry of the Interior. The Court of Auditors criticises the establishment of very ominous measuring points in the application of Section Control for the determination of speed infringements, thereby making it more difficult to collect penalties. And if you have the impression that you are being overtaken very often by foreign vehicles, don't be fooled, because the reason is that the collection of penalties abroad is only very inadequate. As a positive point, I would like to mention a success story from this report, namely the section control sections that are fixed. This includes, for example, the Kaisermühlentunnel in my district of Donaustadt, where there has been no more death victims since the entry into service in 2003 and 50 percent fewer accidents with injured persons. That is, I think, a great success and also a proof of their sensuality. Finally, because we are talking about traffic and cars, we are still in a position to do so: I find it totally inappropriate that electroluxus cars, which are over 400 hp strong and bring 2.5 tons of weight to the road, are promoted by tens of thousands of euros, and that under the title of Coronahilfe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e62408	The President of the Court of Auditors is now speaking. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e62432	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment briefly on the two reports and to inform you that we have dealt with the subject of drones in two reports: One report is the present concerning drones in civil aviation, and the second deals with the procurement and use of drones in the Federal Army. Although both ministries cooperated in the drone detection, there was no joint procurement – but there could be synergies in this procurement. In civil aviation, we have noticed – all of you are very concerned about this issue – that there were very strict regulations, but also legal uncertainty among users, the drone users, because few were subject to authorisation requirements. The EU Regulation now provides for a new drone regime in terms of registration and identification. There you will see how things develop. Since the Minister of the Interior was in the Committee, we have dealt very strongly with the safety aspect of drones; it was about airports. We believe that there should be a stationary defence system at airports and not one that needs to be obtained in the event of an incident or in the event of an operation, because it is necessary to react quickly. We have also said that the executive has no legitimacy to intervene under aviation law and also in the area of data protection law. There were also quite strong restrictions on the use of drones by intervention agencies themselves, which should be considered. As far as the traffic penalties are concerned, we have - already said - shown the country-wide different levels of fines; we have looked at this in Upper Austria and Lower Austria. There is a regulatory authority under the Administrative Criminal Law, under which the Minister of Transport may adopt a regulation, which may lay down uniform criminal offences fixed in advance, so that they do not lead to any inequality of treatment. This regulatory empowerment should also be implemented. The second is the central register of administrative penalties in order to be able to account for and take into account pre-crime. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] The cross-border persecution of traffic offences is also a problem over and over again, with international efforts and the treatment of requests for legal assistance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e62475	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? – Mr Gahr does not wish that. As agreed, I shall refer the vote to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on the Court of Auditors. We're going on the agenda. [[21:06:35]] 12. Point Report of the Court of Auditors of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors on the care of the mentally ill by social security – series BUND 2019/8 (III-24/622 d.B.) 13. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on diabetes prevention and supply – BUND series 2019/43 (III58/623 d.b.) 14. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors report on care in Austria – series BUND 2020/8 (III-97/625 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e62533	We come to points 12 to 14 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I should like to ask Mr Pöttinger to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e62560	Mr President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! We now have to move back to the time of the local health phone: The Court of Auditors examined between May and October 2017 the provision of psychiatric diseases by the Salzburg Regional Health Fund, the Steiermärkisches Landeskrankenkasse and the Pensions Versicherungsanstalt, 2012 to 2016. Psychiatric diseases have been and represent a major and growing challenge for the population as well as for the health system, the social system and the economy. Expenditure on disability pension and rehabilitation allowance due to mental illness increased by around 62 percent between 2007 and 2016, and the number of psychologically dependent sick leave days in the working population increased by around 94 percent. The Court of Auditors assessed the additional expenditure in 2016 with around EUR 300 million. The Council of Ministers also decided in 2012 to set its own health target for mental health and the Austrian social security scheme, which was based on a comprehensive 2009 data analysis. The Court of Auditors then found that the implementation of the Austrian social security strategy has been incomplete, that gaps in the strategic definitions are present and that problems in health planning and problems exist in the legal framework. The recommendations: Together with the countries, a cross-sectoral strategy on mental health would be developed, a greater importance of mental health in the target control contracts would have to be taken into account, outpatient rehabilitation measures would have to be granted according to objective criteria under equal treatment for all entitled persons and a legal re-regulation of psychotherapy as a health treatment would have to take account of specific qualifications requirements, a wide range of offers, a needs-oriented management and the use of electoral services. That was now a look into the past – and now from my point of view more information about the current state of affairs: In 2017, on the basis of a government mandate, the social security scheme presented a concept for the provision of psychotherapeutic services and the multi-professional mental care of children and young people, According to which the provision of psychotherapeutic services is to be increased by 25 percent by the year 2019. With the merger of the CCCs and the re-establishment of the ÖGK, the focus has been placed on the whole of Austria. In June 2020, it was decided that the level of care in psychotherapy should be increased from one country to another in the state of Salzburg – that was the highest level. This provision of benefits will be increased by a total of 300 000 hours per year. Those responsible for ÖGK are aware that a supply-effective offer of psychotherapy is very important especially in these difficult times. The Action Plan on Performance Harmonisation in Psychotherapy, adopted in the Board of Directors, also includes a uniform application and authorisation system with significant simplifications and the objective of uniform minimum standards for psychotherapists. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e62608	Mr Michael Seemayer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e62633	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen. The psychological diseases pose a major challenge not only for the population but, of course, also for the health system. We have already heard the increasing numbers of expenditures and sick days from colleagues Pöttinger. According to a WHO study, in 2030, three out of five serious diseases will be associated with mental disorders in the industrialized countries. But that was also with the data situation again, because more data is unfortunately not available to us in Austria. There is no overall overview of the actual situation in mental disorders; there is little information about medications, because many drug prices are lower than the prescription fee. But the acceptance of a mental illness is not great either. Acknowledging that mental treatment is necessary and good is widely interpreted as weakness. The figures are particularly disillusioning when it comes to the offer in the field of child and youth psychiatry. There are too few places in Austria. Only in 2020 there was a slight improvement of 40 beds in the children's and youth psychiatry in the Wiener AKH. According to studies in Austria, if every sixth is affected by mental illness, ladies and gentlemen, everyone here will agree that the burden of the necessary measures to combat the covid crisis does not contribute to relaxation. These loads are now enormous: They range from job loss to income loss to massive fears of existence. Even those who can carry out their work, the burden increases considerably, especially with our 1.4 million workers who have to be in the establishments or on construction sites every day. While speaking on one side of Homeoffice, exactly these people cannot take their work home. If the schools and kindergartens are de facto closed for months, it becomes increasingly difficult to ensure the care for the children. This also shows the increasing numbers of children and young people present in schools and kindergartens whose parents have to make use of the care offer. There is already a shift in semester holidays, as is currently foreseen in Upper Austria and Styria, to a problem situation that needs to be dealt with first. The situation of many families is becoming increasingly dramatic. Violence against children increased by 49 percent in 2020. In surveys by parent associations, 40 percent of respondents consider the mental state of students to be poor to very poor. It is urgently necessary to increase offers for consultation and treatment quickly, and the whole thing is as low as possible so that it can also be adopted. We will not be able to take away the psychological effects of current pressures, which will accompany us for years to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e62675	Mr Wolfgang Zanger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e62699	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Before I come to the report on which it is about, namely those about the mentally ill, I must congratulate the ÖVP. You have managed that Austria is again the number one again worldwide, namely with the number of recently vaccinated mayors. This is really a great achievement that there are people who have not yet been able to do so and who are at the expense of people waiting for it and belonging to a risk group, just because a few doses of vaccination have been left. So it's no more disgraceful! And this double-beddedness to lock people up because they have to be protected, and then also to take away the vaccine – a shame is that, a shame! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Körl: Break your ass!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] To the report on the mentally ill – don't worry, I'll come to you, too, Mr. Hörl! –: The Court of Auditors has found that by 2030 half of the population will be affected by mental illness at least once. The additional effort in 2016 has already been mentioned, EUR 300 million. I dare to say from these distractions and also from what I am going to say that there will be much more affected by 2030 than the Court of Auditors and WHO predict, and the costs will increase even more. Why is that so? – You and your chancellors will take care of this with your disproportionate corona measures. Mr. Kurz takes care of the mental diseases of tomorrow, so simple. Why and who's he doing that? – Let’s start with the little ones, with the little ones in the kindergarten, who won’t let you go into the kindergarten anymore, to whom you refuse contact with the little friends they have. That is something that would be of particular importance at this stage of development. There are the psychological damage of tomorrow already preprogrammed. You do this with the people's students, whom you not only refuse the contacts with the friends and which you lock up, but also steal the training time. That's why I'll call again at this point: Lock up the schools again! – But go, that can only be believed by someone who is completely remote from reality. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Totter: The schools are open!]] You do this with the secondary school students, because in addition to having no social contacts, that they are stolen from them the time of their education, they are taken away from the parents' house. This age falls precisely into the puberty phase, and that happens at that time. This leads to insane conflicts, that is also what experts say. Furthermore, something wonderful happens in itself at this time, namely the first approaches to the opposite sex, the first romances. This too you steal from them and this also leads to the psychological damage of tomorrow. – Lock up the schools again!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e62773	Mrs Ribo is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] - I'm sorry, I believed you're already finished.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e62800	That's a nice try.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e62818	No, you have a total of 16:37 minutes, so there's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e62834	Right now. – They do so with all the affected parents who are now forced to take over tasks for which they are not at all trained to teach their children at home. This is particularly difficult, especially for children in 1st and 2nd years. High school – there is really much to learn. These parents are on the sand, they're in the end. They may both be employed, possibly that for one or another home office is possible and then they sit at home and have one or maybe even two or three children to teach in parallel. Think about what an effort this is! I want to see those of you who do this without anything. These are the next psychiatric sick of tomorrow that you have the conscience. They are all locked up for this, are not allowed to receive a visit or go somewhere else. That means that they also lack the time to talk, exchange, or just talk to someone else. These are the psychologically ill of tomorrow that you have the conscience. – Lock up the schools again!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e62861	Ready now?
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e62876	No, no, no, [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Mr President, when I finish, you will hear me say: Lock up the schools again, but it'll take a little while. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Loacker.]] [[Abg. Listen, leave you time!]] - Yes, I'll leave you alone. To all the parents at home who are desperate now: There are also ways out. I have a special open letter from a bully, a really hearted mother, from which I want to bring a few excerpts: She sees it as her duty to act as a responsible person and as a responsible, loving mother, for the rights and freedom of parents and children. She sees it as her duty to breathe freely against negative psychological effects, from false sense of duty, from the task of autonomy and law, and to protect her children from serious health and mental consequences; for, after all, she says, the corona measures in everyday school lead to humiliation, exclusion, the education of commanders, and as such she does not want to see her children – but that is exactly what you want: you want to enslave all in truth - and to severe physical and mental strains with possible consequential damage. [[Abg. Hi, hello!]] And she rightly asks: Who should protect our children from arbitraryity, propaganda, human rights abuse, crime and education, if not the parents? Dear parents who now watch and they hear this: If you can identify with this, take another two minutes, please! [[Calls to the Greens.]] She says you should just let your human mind operate and not let yourself be drawn into panic, hysteria, propaganda and mass manipulation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] At any time, she notes, there would be the opportunity to get out of this perfid game and say boldly and with backbone: I'm not in there anymore! The parents also have a responsibility, namely, to their children as role models. Parents must show young people and young people what it means to stand up for their personal freedom, even if this is not always very pleasant. They should become self-responsible, think themselves, and develop into compassionate beings. That's exactly what she's talking to me from the heart. This is what I tried to do in the time when my children were still small, and I am proud to see today that they are so far, that they think, form their own opinion, which doesn't always have to be mine. [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] We hack now and then very well, don't always come to a green branch, but that makes me even more proud. [[Abg. Hörl: Choose the FPÖ?]] Children are guided by honesty and not by cowardly jasagers, they write – and that is what you want to make from people, from our little ones, from our children, from our young people. That's disgraceful! Shame on you! [[Calls to the Greens.]] The most important thing, however, she says – and in this I can only confirm it – is to feel or feel what your stomach says and to follow. – This is usually a great deal worse than anything else that comes from seemingly broken people who are as well-fed and above all as many of whom I do not want to call and become personally. [[New call to the Greens.]] At your address, dear ÖVP and Greens – I mean, you're just a climber anyway –: You have carried the virtue of democracy to the grave. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] You're dealing with people who are critical today, who say: I now carry my feeling and feeling on the street, say loud there, what I think and what I think of it! – without violence, without destruction, peaceful, occurrence-free and without destruction. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tomaselli]] They are diffamated, criminalized and stigmatized by you. That's last-class! [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] I can tell you one thing, and I would recommend it to you as well: I was at one, two such events, and I only met serious, decent, floored people there. These are not simple people, they're just people, and behind their concerns – I'm now saying this from this point of view completely stoned and clear – I am full of inbrown and with full conviction and will continue to support them. [[Abg. Don't you like anything!]] [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] So: Lock up the schools!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e63038	But you still have 10 minutes. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to - Please. [[Cheerfulness and unrest in the hall.]] [[Call to the Greens:... a bad speech!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] I'm allowed to ask for attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e63082	Mr President. Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can't pick up Mr. Zanger's speech, but - yes. First of all, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for addressing the issues of care, diabetes and mental illness in reports. Unfortunately, diabetes is becoming increasingly relevant in our society. The report therefore examines, in particular, preventive measures and the health promotion of people suffering from type 2 diabetes. Mental diseases are also becoming increasingly common in our society, which presents significant challenges to our health and social system. Especially now, in times of social distancing, so important human contact remains very often on the track and very many people, unfortunately, remain in their own four walls. [[Abg. Singer:... 2020!]] For this reason, it is not possible to focus on the care of mentally ill people often enough. As a speaker for seniors and care, I have of course dealt intensively with the current care report. For me, this report is a confirmation that there is a great need for improvement in the field of care and that a care reform that we are working on is urgently necessary, because, as has already been pointed out several times, this report also points to a massive shortage of nurses. We must and will face this lack of caregivers with attractive training and retraining measures. In addition, regional differences in quality standards in care are repeatedly mentioned. It can't be – unfortunately it's so – that in Austria, meeting the needs of caring people depends on where they live. In any case, I see the report as a good template for our work in the care reform, because in order to tackle the problems of care, it takes a common action, a common effort of the federal, state and local authorities. Only together do we take action in the care reform of the claw, so that we really do not only change something for all those concerned in the care, but also improve a little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e63118	The honourable Member is hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e63140	Mr President. Estimated President! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! The Court of Auditors has once again made the effort to identify weaknesses in our fragmented health system. The poor supply situation of three groups was considered more closely: those of the diabetics, those of the mentally ill and those of the caregivers. The Court of Auditors sees similar problems in the supply structure of all three groups and also comes up with similar proposals for improvement. Firstly, we need a secure and complete data base so that a data link between the different supply areas can finally take place. Supply processes need to be precisely defined, and available data must be summarized by one body in order to be able to derive recommendations for action from them. Finally, the Court of Auditors calls for better cross-sectoral supply – a well-known demand that we have known for years, but is not implemented. This requires the design of strategic objectives, sound planning instruments and an examination of whether health planning also meets the objectives. In fact, the 2013 health reform and the related target control should have strengthened cross-sectoral cooperation, but the 2013 health reform failed dramatically because the countries and health insurance companies are still not working together and only optimising their own areas – at the expense of the patients. Due to this poor cooperation, only 10 percent of Austrian diabetes patients are in a diabetes program. In Germany, on the other hand, it is more than 50 percent. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Of course, I do not hope that the black and green majority will agree to this request. My confidence in this government and in the Ministry of Health is also dwindling. I am shaken by the vaccination chaos that culminates in a vaccination, because mayors in Austria seem to be high-risk patients and genuine risk groups are forgotten. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I am shaken by the failure of the electronic vaccination, by the appointment of the flu vaccine, by the procurement of protective equipment, by the provision of data for science, by the protection of socially disadvantaged groups, by the protection of risk groups and care homes, by the Coronamepel et cetera, et cetera – the list can be extended infinitely. We need someone at the head of the ministry to get started; we need a professional. Many press conferences do not solve any problems. We urgently need to improve the care of the mentally ill, the diabetic and the needy. Everything else is not only bad for Austria's patients, but also frustrating for the Court of Auditors, who produce excellent reports to improve health care, which will not be implemented then. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[21:30]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e63311	Thank you. – The application has been properly submitted. I hope they're five signatures. I would ask you to write the name below – because it could be a first name and a last name again with all love – but at least he is negotiating. Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e63335	Mr President. Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, there was a lot to be said about Mr Zanger's speech. One of his accusations to the mayor: Of course, it is unacceptable that people who are not yet in line can be vaccinated in advance, no question at all – and this concerns all professional groups. As the Upper Austrian mayor, however, I can say: I don't know any ÖVP mayor in Upper Austria who has been vaccinated – but I know a FPÖ mayor in Upper Austria who has been vaccinated. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Zanger, I would recommend that we make the preparation proper and see who is concerned. [[Abg. Singer:... the same thing as what I said!]] [[Abg. Singer:... the same thing!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The care and care is a very great challenge of our time, with and without corona pandemic. The Court of Auditors has worked out and listed on 170 pages the dimension of the resulting tasks. Many have already dealt with demographic development. The Court of Auditors calls the age composition one of the major changes in the next 40 years. The more than 80-year-olds will more than double with 11.7 percent of the total population, which is also an essential factor. Today, four people over 80 years old, who can provide private care, will only be more than 1.6 people in 2060, so not even half of today. What does that mean? – We will need around 100,000 more people in care, and the Court of Auditors has already calculated an additional financial requirement of EUR 3.5 billion for 2030, i.e. for ten years. This is a huge challenge – and, ladies and gentlemen, I have not yet addressed the quality, mobile services, the different number of homes and the different staff requirements. Yes, this report shows the importance of reforming care in Austria. The government coalition has agreed to it, the basic approach and the policy approaches are in the government programme. To this end, I would like to mention a few points: The basis, of course, is the best possible support for people in need of care and care, as well as their families and caregivers. Of course, it is important to strengthen prevention, i.e. to ensure the suspension of personal, health or even financial consequences of old age. There needs to be increased support for care at home, for example in the further development of mobile services, and, as has already been mentioned, a staff offensive is necessary and, of course, the guarantee of financing. Ladies and gentlemen, many people work in care, more than 950 000 people care for their families. They work in private, mobile and stationary facilities. They do great things, a great, great thanks for them – especially the many women who usually do this work. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the goal is a quality care because it allows a life in dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e63403	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e63425	I am starting with the report on the care of the mentally ill by social security. What was the essential problem? – The essential problem is the lack of epidemiological data and standardized diagnostics. How does that show up? – It turns out that we do not know how many mentally ill there are actually in our country. Every sixth one will be affected in the future to experience a mental illness, and we know, unfortunately, it is often a taboo theme – precisely because of this, it needs a low level of access. It must not happen that a mental illness corresponds to stigmatization. We discussed this in the Committee: The way one considers a physical and a mental illness to be the same is probably a very further one. In view of the current circumstances that really affect children and young people, it must, I believe, be an absolute priority to develop child and youth psychiatric treatment opportunities. [[In the case of the SPÖ, the members of the NEOS and the Agg. Schnedlitz.]] As far as the prevention of diabetes is concerned, the same problems and questions as the report is concerned. There is no basic data in this respect as to how many diabetes patients there are; and there are approaches to how to get more data, for example by receiving data from a school doctor. Studies used, of course anonymized. However, this could result in successive effective measures, for example, how lifestyle needs to be changed: Movement, nutrition et cetera, et cetera. It is important that you really achieve sustainable improvements. In Germany, 50 percent of diabetes patients are included in a structural accompaniment, with us 13 percent. So there is really much to be done, and there the Federal Minister for Health is probably required. I would like to make a brief statement on the care report: Fortunately, this report for the first time looks at all nine federal states, but it also shows how different the entries are in the individual federal states. It is necessary to ensure a dignified quality in care. As a SPÖ group, we demand a care billion for the care at home, for the 24-hour care and in all cases for a needs-oriented care, especially with fair rules for caregivers. Who is responsible? – The Minister of Health, but above all the Federal Chancellor, who has always announced in word-rich press conferences: The care reform is coming, we will take care of the care. So far nothing has happened, the measures are missing, the plans are missing – and, ladies and gentlemen, this is unfortunately another example in a long chain of unfulfilled announcements. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister, Mr Bundeskanzler, you are acting in the sense of the caregivers, in the sense of our patients, the caregivers and their relatives.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e63485	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e63506	Mr President. Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate viewers! Yes, the report of the Court of Auditors on diabetes prevention and care is a very good report. Thank you very much to you and your staff, Madam President. The Court of Auditors report shows that in Austria 7 to 11 percent of the population suffers from diabetes, and that is a significant number. We have soon reached the limit of one million – and the worst thing is, if we assume from 900,000 diabetics in Austria, that some 300,000 do not even know that they suffer from type 2 diabetes, and we know what this chronic metabolic disease is all about in the population. That is why I think it is good to look at it, because follow-up diseases cost a lot of money, cost health care in Austria money, which is partly not available at all. This was also said in the Committee by the Minister for Health, but the Minister for Health had very few answers and very few ideas. It should not be forgotten that this report from 2017 is actually a few years old and has been relatively little since then. The Minister of Health just meant that because of Corona. This is always the standard statement: If you don't have ideas in other health areas, everything's up to Corona. He said that it came in, and unfortunately there is no longer any longer. I don't think so. There's always something going on, you have to get some incentives. It must be said that an EU country is doing quite well: Denmark is a pioneer in diabetes prevention. Denmark has good success in doing so, doing good work. The Danes really do something, we're in the back with some things. It would be good if we were to catch up in health care and see that our population is getting in control of this chronic metabolism diabetes, or better living with it, and being taken care of. Hidden sugars are contained in very many foods, as there is information, since it belongs to needs-oriented work in schools with the small children and proceeds. Other EU countries like Denmark show this very well. Austria is a little behind and sleeps. That is why I thank you for the good report of the Court of Auditors so that you have clarity. Once again the figures: almost 1 million, that is 900,000 people affected, the dark figure is 300 000. This is not nothing and costs very, very much tax money. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e63552	Mr Hörl, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e63573	Mr President. Madam President. I too may speak to Diabetes mellitus type 2 – probably also because of my figure. I became very serious when I heard what numbers You found out here: 800,000 Austrians are affected. My previous speaker has already described it, it is a disease that progresses smoothly, damages blood vessels, nerves and organs in the long term, then leads to severe consequences such as heart attack, stroke, nerve and vascular damage, blindness, kidney failure and, finally, even amputations. The biggest problem, I believe, is that 300,000 people do not even know that they suffer from diabetes. The estimate of 800,000 is therefore due to the fact that health insurance benefits are high and this figure is calculated. So you don't know exactly how many people are really ill. The precautionary examination is also not very efficient. We are 13.7 percent, in Tyrol even at 20 percent, but we need to see that we also get better control of the occupational care. Also in the disease management program Diabetes, which has been running for ten years, only 66 000 people have been. In Germany, there were about four times as many, so there was also a need to catch up. With regard to proper nutrition, of course, everyone himself is required to reduce the sugar and salt content. Dear Wolfgang Zanger, please note: We don't lock people in, we even drive people to the fresh air. We touristers have just recently, although we are constantly getting beaten in front of our feet, our cable cars open. We see that people come to the ice rinks, to the sports rinks and even to the ski resorts. That's the best precautions! Go skiing and you will be healthy!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e63613	Mr Kainz has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e63635	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Care is essential. Unfortunately, this becomes aware of many only at an increasing age or in a specific situation. Already in Austria, we already have a lack of nursing staff. This development will continue in the coming years. In this context, the FPÖ calls for caregivers who are in need of care at home and are cared for to receive 50 percent more care money at all levels from Stage 3. As a result, we could massively relieve caregivers and caregivers and thus prevent caregivers from falling into poverty traps. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to reform the care itself, we also need to make the care profession more attractive. I have already mentioned that we have a massive lack of qualified care staff. This applies by an incentive to counteract, for example, an entry-level or re-entry bonus. Even in terms of remuneration, there is still a lot of room to go up. For example, it is absolutely impossible to understand why those with a degree in a vocational education for care professions fall partly into the same salary system as graduates of health care and nurses who complete a three-year training. An information about why they fall into the same service classes is practically impossible to get. Thus, as Ultima Ratio, the person concerned remains only the opportunity to turn to the Chamber of Workers, which many do not want at all, since they fear further disadvantages in their job. In this respect, Mr President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors, he said that a basic approach would be presented at the end of February. [[Abg. Loacker: He can't answer anything!]] The Coronamepel has shown us that apparently colors are needed to the It's serious to see the situation. In the care we have already reached red at alarm level. The Court of Auditors' report on care in Austria only confirms how precarious the situation in our beautiful country Austria is. We must stop this dramatic misdevelopment.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e63671	The President of the Court of Auditors is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. - I can give you the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e63693	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to speak shortly on three major reports from the Court of Auditors: We have submitted about 350 pages to you in which we have dealt with the quality of care in the field of psychologically ill, the prevention of diabetes and the topic of care in Austria as a whole. These are reports that fit our audit focus, namely quality of public sector performance. We have made very extensive analyses in the field of care psychologically ill, and the question was whether the health care response is appropriate to this growing challenge. This is about secure data bases – that has already been said – especially in the established area. We are now again and again aware that the standardized diagnostics are missing in relation to the analysis of action activities and recommendations for action. This is also true in the field of prevention, in the area of diabetes prevention. Only if you recognize a disease can you act in a timely manner, as it were. The Second is a cross-sectoral view, called case management – the look in the form of an integrated supply through an entire system. Important in the field of care of mentally ill people not only the consideration of the costs of treatment, but also the follow-up costs, because the follow-up costs can be seen in this question as to what the public system as a whole has to do, then in the rehabilitation money et cetera. In the field of rehabilitation, we have repeatedly criticized the different responsibilities between health insurance institutions and pension insurance institutions. We also believe that pensioners actually have a significantly disproportionate access to psychiatric rehabilitation. In psychotherapy, you all know, there is a legal need for adaptation. We also discussed this in the field of health care. We compared two local health telephones, the Styrian and the Salzburger Landeskrankenkasse, and have seen that in one case the treatment costs were higher, in the other case the follow-up costs were higher. These are the differences we have made. As far as diabetes prevention is concerned, prevention expenditure in itself represents only 2% of health expenditure. Participation in precautionary investigations is essential. Only 13.7% of the population are below the poverty line. In the medical field too, the participation rate is very, very low, and three-quarters of doctors do not participate. We all know that care in Austria is very much suffering. The burden of suffering exists at all levels of the local authorities, but especially with those concerned with care. For the report, we compared nine federal states, showed the situation of responsibilities, compared tariffs, and pointed to demographic development, to the financial dimension, to the different demand and supply plans, which depend on different dates, and above all to the very large subject of stationary care, because, of course, stationary care is the essential cost factor. This also includes the issue of the quality of care in Austria, because of how to define structures and the quality of results, the corresponding costs are naturally derived. The Court of Auditors' position is that an Austrian-wide measurement of the quality of results is essential, and that one must first compare the tariff models and look at the background. This is essential before an expansion of the services. These aspects are then the basis for financing the care. Total costs amount to 7.9 billion euros, 3.4 billion euros go to the stationary area. We found very different costs per day of settlement, they ranged between 91 euros in Carinthia and 161 euros in Vienna. The causes were in structural conditions such as home size, different quality standards and efficiency. Mr. Singer, depending on the minimum and maximum values used, the cost differences of 3.5 billion euros in 2030 – that is, very relevant – would result, depending on what you decide and what you agree on. In the medium term, there is, of course, a very strong increase to be expected for demographic reasons, and for this we must take care accordingly. I have referred to the topic of quality: Quality, of course, includes the availability of care staff, and there are certain conditions for this. In the case of mobile services, the comparison between countries was difficult, because we also need a single category with regard to the allocation of the corresponding service hours et cetera. To sum up, the Court of Auditors also notes that a reform of care in Austria is inevitable, that there is, of course, a interest in financing from a federal point of view, because the Federal Government is responsible for the care allowance, it is financing this on the care fund and therefore must also have an interest in the conditions and criteria in order to know what it will receive in the end. In the care system, we think important information is missing, and it is also about the interface between care and health. In addition, of course, the issues of investment, which always play a role in cost comparisons, should also be considered. There are no control elements and the question of how to find a coordinated approach between all the local authorities concerned, because the systems are different from one country to another, at the level of the countries, at the level of the municipalities in relation to benefits, and the federal government is, as it were, the largest financier in addition to the private sector, where informal care is also taking place. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e63762	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. The vote will be taken at the end of the debate on the Court of Auditors' submissions. [[21:54:24]] 15. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the coordination of quality marks in the food sector – BUND 2020/9 series (III-98/624 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e63795	We come to item 15 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Gahr. - I'm allowed to ask.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e63823	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Austria has quite high-quality food, but Austria has a wild growth in the food sector, as the Court of Auditors has explicitly stated. In the review for the years 2014 to 2018, there were 30 final recommendations by the Court of Auditors, and it became clear that: There are 100 quality marks in Austria, from AMA seal to fair trade to Yes! Of course, nature pure and many more, and there are also 100 so-called pleasure regions. We can distinguish two categories in Austria: on the one hand, the AMA seal, a public-law seal controlled and managed by the AMA, and on the other hand many, many private quality stamps, which are not necessarily subject to strict controls. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] The Court of Auditors has shown that the consumer deception is open to the door. The Court of Auditors therefore calls for very clearly uniform standards. We should not advertise stickers, but we should advertise with quality and transparency. Mr Schmiedlechner criticised the AMA seal in the Committee. Mr Schmiedlechner, the AMA seal is currently the only seal of quality which is transparent and in which it is proven that: Where Austria stands, Austria is also in it. Perhaps there are some proposals, Mr President, to look more and more closely at private sealing. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We therefore need more transparency in the quality seal sector, on the one hand as regards food packaging. On the other hand, we need more control, focus controls on private, voluntary quality marks, and we need minimum quality marking requirements that can also be checked. A mandatory food label, a designation of origin would be the best solution, and this is enshrined in the government programme. We must introduce in Austria, as soon as possible and as binding as possible, a mandatory designation of origin for processed food and for Community food. Madam President, this Court of Auditors report clearly points out: There is a need for action, we need to develop further, and we need a transparent identification of home-based food and the quality of Austrian food especially in times of climate change. May I invite you: Please buy You local products, please buy AMA seal quality, then support and promote local agriculture and domestic value added! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e63877	Mr Schmiedlechner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e63898	Mr President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Court of Auditors report on the coordination of quality seals in the food sector: The Court of Auditors reviewed from April to June 2018 the coordination of food quality marks by the Federal Ministry of Sustainability and Tourism, the agricultural market Austria and the agricultural market Austria Marketing GesmbH. The outcome of this review was as not expected: Not enough. There are countless quality and quality marks. This circumstance is confusing and annoying for all consumers. There are legally guaranteed quality marks from the EU, and then there is the AMA seal at national level. There has been a wild growth in recent years, so that no one knows himself correctly again. It could also be said that this is a fraud label. But the AMA needs an employment therapy for countless employees. [[The speaker holds up papers on which various seal of quality are depicted.]] Just briefly: We have at least 15 different AMA seal. And there's someone else to know?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Double farmer: Exactly!]] In addition to the statutory seal of quality, a variety of private and voluntary awards comes. In 2013, the Consumer Protection Association listed 105 quality marks. Since the 2009 Quality Regulation came out of force, there have been countless suspected quality marks, inconspicuous and barely manageable for consumers. We must face this wild growth. The Court of Auditors also recommends action. It would be so easy. Yes, Mr Gahr, it would be so easy: Where Austria insists, Austria must be in it. A comprehensive designation of origin of food would make much easier. We have repeatedly requested a secure, complete designation of origin. [[Call the ÖVP:Hartinger-Little!]] Why hasn't anything happened so far? – Obviously, the ÖVP does not want it, because more than hot air does not come; an announcement, no more. It could be said that the peasantry lays eggs, and the farmers' federal representatives are unable to hatch them! In the interests of consumers and farmers, we urgently need to find solutions. I therefore ask that we immediately do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e63951	Mrs Fischer has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e63973	Mr President. Madam President. [[The speaker put a pack of milk with the label “Latte intero biologico” on the speaker’s desk.]] The Court of Auditors report on quality seal covers about 100 pages. These 100 pages I read through, and then it was easy for me to realize that the milk we have here in the canteen is sustainable, from Austria. It can't be in the inventor's mind, however, that you need to read 100 pages of the Court of Auditors report so that you can understand what's sold in our supermarkets in our canteens – it's easier! In 2013, in a ranking of sustainability labels of trade, the VKI recognised that there are more than 100 seals and that this seal of quality money leads to the fact that no one knows each other. There are six statutory seals in Austria, two of which are on this package, two of which are awarded by the AMA in Austria. [[Keeping the milk in height]] I mean, it's true that there is information for consumers, and of course they can also be found in seals. However, if it is not information, but if, for example, natural things are written on it – for example, if a juice is labeled as vegan or child food free of genetic engineering – this leads to distortions of competition. Consumers then believe: Because there are many seals on it, the product is good. No one has the time to look through everything in detail when he goes to the supermarket. You have to be able to see at a glance: Is that healthy, is it regional, or, if you want to buy organic, is it organic, healthy and regional? This requires simplification. What we need is clarity and simple legal framework. We have to trust ourselves to unravel this jungle of the seal of goodness, and the Court of Auditors report speaks for it – thank you very much for giving us a few points. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] In my opinion, applause deserves the food check, which has been set up at the VKI since 2010. There you can report if you are dissatisfied with purchased products. For example, if you buy Müsli and the package is only one third filled, you can tell that the package is a mogel pack. Entrepreneurs are faced with this, and in many cases this leads to improvements. But I don't think that's enough. I believe that a dozen voluntary seal of goodness must be sufficient – and not more than 100 stamps of quality. We need to do something in the sense of consumer kindness to make shopping easier and secure and to protect regionality better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e64036	Mr Eypeltauer has now been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e64057	Mr President. High house! This report by the Court of Auditors – for which I am very grateful to the President because it is extremely instructive – makes it quite clear that instead of an intruding confusion in the seal of quality, enjoyment regions and markings, it would be necessary to increase transparency, clarity and comprehensibleness for consumers. This report came out in spring – but it really does not seem as if the competent minister Köstinger had learned a lot from it. At the moment, it seems almost as if the Minister and the AMA have the goal of creating more confusion instead of more perceptibleness and producing so many seal of quality and additional modules that the consumer does not really know at all. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Schnedlitz.]] My colleague Karin Doppelbauer has already explained this very well in the last plenary session. Recently, the AMA marketing launched a campaign for the AMA seal: It was praised that the AMA seal would certify regionality, transparency and freedom of genetic engineering – in parallel, there were media reports that proved that exactly the opposite is the case. It may even be possible that – house number – a pig farmer feeds his livestock with soya from overseas – which is of course also genetic engineering-like – and nevertheless receives an AMA seal. You should clean it up before you create a warp of additional modules that don't bring anything! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors has very clear recommendations here: It must finally be a clear overall strategy for quality signs instead of this wild growth. This is actually relatively simple, and it takes clear criteria for the quality and control of these signs as well as transparency in order to avoid error. The Federal Ministers must act simply and decisively in order to ensure that consumers can also rely on quality stamps, especially if they are paid with millions and millions of dollars of their own tax money.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e64097	Mr Kühberger has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e64118	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! I have to answer your speech now, Mr. Schmiedlechner. It's 22 o'clock in the evening, normally you say good night – but you're thinking about the eggs. I say: Good morning, FPÖ, because it is also in the elections before the election of the Chamber of Agriculture: Five days before the election, you'll be finer – but that's too late, because a real and honest farmer's representation works as the farmer goes into the stable, 365 days a year and not now four days! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Mr Lausch and Mr Schmijdlechner.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The Court of Auditors report: Our Austrian food stands for quality and sustainability. Our hard-working farmers have also developed this good reputation through the sustainable management of their family farms. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Schmiedlechner and Mr Doppelbauer.]] In order for the consumer to recognize Austrian food, it needs quality labelling. The Court of Auditors has examined coordination of these markings from April to June 2018, and it has complained that only the least of these labels are based on laws and regulations. [[Abg. Forgedlechner: Why didn't you change that?]] Mr. Schmiedlechner, you have criticized the AMA seal, but the Court of Auditors has found that it meets all the criteria. [[Abg. Forgedlechner: Why didn't you change that?]] Of course, there are also many who unjustly attach the red and white-red flag to their products – something has to be done, we do. Now I'm coming back to this seal of goodness. It was introduced in 1993. Why has it been introduced? – Because a political party, the ÖVP, has a strong peasant association, which also has the political power to implement something in this Parliament! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Mr Lausch and Mr Schmijdlechner.]] In recent years and in the last months of this crisis, we have implemented many important measures for our rural family farms in Austria. But there is still much to be done, because there are, of course, problems with pig farmers, cattle farmers, wine farmers and other sectors for which there will still be some necessary aid measures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] [[Abg. Forgedlechner: Now at once!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Members of Parliament for double farmers and Eypeltauer.]] [[Abg. Lausch: On Sunday there are elections!]] This can only be done by the Austrian Farmers' Federation because it also has the political power – and not you, who will mingle you four days before the election! – Retribution to God for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e64248	After this emotional speech, Mrs Vogluer is the next speaker, including at 10 p.m. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e64270	Spoštovana Visoka Hiša! High house! If this Court of Auditors report is a little clear, then one: Where tax money flows, it needs transparency and comprehensible control, exactly when it comes to our food. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Eypeltauer.]] Consumers are the best ambassadors for good, high-quality, domestic food. I experience this in my farm at home: Those who talk well about our products, who know well about our products, automatically advertises. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] This leads me to the designation of origin, because our state-of-the-art marks guarantee Austrian origin. But I wonder: Is that enough? Is it enough just to point out the origin? As consumers, do we not want to know how conventional pigs are kept? Don't we want to know what contribution we make to climate protection with our purchase? Do we not want to know whether we support domestic, ethically acceptable animal husbandry with the product we buy? – I mean, we as consumers want all of this, and I mean, green farmers in the Austrian chambers represent exactly that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With my colleagues, with Clemens Stammler, our Member, with Andreas Lackner as our Federal Council, we have two very good, strong representatives for these issues in the Chambers in Upper Austria and Styria. That is why we all agree with the desire for animal welfare for green farmers, because that is exactly what is inside. This is about good quality seals for our animal products, and they also take into account animal welfare. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Enjoy, ladies and gentlemen, there is no enjoyment with mass, enjoyment there is only with animal welfare and quality. Those who want to eat good meat do not want to support mass stables, but rather the natural, grown, sustainable, strong family business. That's for the future. Let me now come to the AMA seal for a moment now! It is not possible – Mr colleague, you said this earlier – that beef is produced without genetic engineering and that pigmeat is very likely to be used with genetic engineering. [[towards Abg. Eypeltauer]] This cannot be regulated with a seal of goodness. Therefore, the same rules do not apply, and there is a clear need for action. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] I am therefore looking forward to the future strategic orientation of these quality seals, which aim to use the funds and taxpayers in the sense of our consumers, but above all in the sense of animal welfare. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e64354	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[22:11:59]] Vote on agenda items 5 to 15
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e64378	As agreed, we come to the votes. I'm asking if all clubs are ready. . Well, then we come to a series of votes on the reports of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure which have been put forward at this time and which I make separately on each item on the agenda. Agenda item 5: Request of the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, implementation of the 2030 Agenda in Austria, III-8 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is because everyone has risen up, unanimously accepted. Agenda item 6: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on the educational institutions of the political parties, III45 and III-45 of the Supplements. Whoever does that, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, colleagues on improving the rules governing the educational institutions of the political parties. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. Agenda item 7: Request of the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on mandates of advisory services and studies in selected sections, III173 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda item 8: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum, III-70 of the Supplements. Whoever is for this, I ask him again for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Krisper, colleagues, on 'Evacuating children and families in particular in need from the Greek island camps'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. Agenda item 9: Request from the Court of Auditors, the report on the execution of the warrant, with the focus on Anhaltezentrum Fürdenberg; Follow-up review, III40 of the supplements, to take note. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – In turn, this is unanimously accepted. Agenda item 10: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on drones in civil aviation, III83 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is also unanimously adopted. Agenda item 11: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on transport penalties, III44 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is also unanimously adopted. Agenda item 12: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on the care of the mentally ill by social security scheme, III24 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is also unanimously adopted. Agenda item 13: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on diabetes prevention and supply, III58 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him to give a sign of approval. – This is also unanimously adopted. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Fierce, ladies and gentlemen, on improving diabetes provision. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Agenda item 14: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on care in Austria, III97 of the Supplements. Whoever does this is asked for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda item 15: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on the coordination of quality marks in the food sector, III98 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask him to also put a sign. - Thank you. This has been adopted unanimously. I would like to thank President Dr. Kraker for her report. [[22:15:52]] 16. Point Report by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 1, 3, 6, 12 and 13, 18, 19, 33, 35 and 38, as well as the citizens' initiatives No. 5, 11 and 12, 20, 28 and 30 (604 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e64589	We arrive at the 16th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank I can give him the word. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e64616	Mr President. High house! The petition “Re-introduction of the suckler cow premium” – which was abolished in 2015 – would be an important step in promoting extensive animal husbandry in Austria. This animal farming is the most imaginable natural form. It is good for our farms, of course good for the animals and also good for the landscape. One would think that greens would have to support this without reservation. Minister Anschober also said that it would be desirable – but neither the animals nor their owners have anything of it – but with that the greens had it used again. At the petition “Stop the Toll Refugees through Kittsee!” I wonder, since when the Greens have escaped protecting the population from unnecessary traffic. That would be easy: Kittsee is located directly on the Slovak border on the A 6. If the toll obligation were to begin only 6 kilometres after the entry, this part would be used as a detour to the shopping centre, without this leading to major financial losses for the Asfinag. Nevertheless, we have been experiencing a ping-pong game between the Asfinag and the Minister for Climate Change for the last few months. It means that a guide for toll liberties will be drawn up, but I wonder how long the creation of such a guide can take. The Federal Minister – and I would also like to say this here – should be a little less concerned with the overcoloring of boards and supervisory councils, but should give priority to the work on the subject. That would be something new for them, but quite rewarding. In the petition “Absorbed stop for trainees in care professions”, we believe that it is unacceptable to link asylum law with the labour market. Either there are asylum grounds or not. Whoever has asylum is allowed to work. There is therefore no question of planning a legal notanker and removing the right to asylum. Again, the Greens were surprised at this petition, because they are seamlessly swirling on the line of the ÖVP, which is also our line. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] In this case, they are on the road right now – warm congratulations! - but they are miles away from their political goals, and it is already remarkable how much they have become wax in the hands of the ÖVP. Even its alternates, the Sigi has exchanged the gust for their own sake. Sacrifice yourself like that, yes, that must be true love.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e64662	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e64684	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Christian Ries, prefer some true love as a holiday in Ibiza! But that's another pair of shoes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Vacations in Ibiza, as we now know, can destroy even governments and permanently damage parties, but that is something else. At the last meeting of the Committee on Petitions, held on 3 March, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer More than 60 agenda items were discussed on December 2020 and ten petitions and six citizens' initiatives were taken into account, for example, the citizens' initiative to improve the second pillar in the pension system. A number of comments have been received. Of course, it is not quite easy for pension funds in current economic conditions, but we also know how important a second pillar for a sustainable pension system is. It also took note of the citizens' initiative concerning the prohibition of the animal-poverty shaft. This area is clearly regulated by law. The desire for those who are especially interested in religious motives to give up on it is quite understandable and comprehensible. The petition concerning the reintroduction of the suckler cow premium or suckler cow premium has been noted. A number of opinions have been received from organisations dealing with the content. The decision of 2012 to make the mother cow premium out was certainly not optimal for grassland farms. In recent years, quality programmes have been developed together with producer organisations, such as Q plus, Q plus beef, in order to create incentives for these farms to provide additional income. Upper Austria has already decided to substantially increase the appropriations for these establishments in 2021. If we want the rural families in the mountain areas and other less favoured areas to be able to generate value in the future, then we need measures in this area. It is important that we set accents and at the same time also paid off the natural management disadvantages accordingly. Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Agriculture and the legal representation of interest work intensively on this. The rural families know who they can rely on.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e64732	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e64753	Mr President. Dear Seers! Ladies and gentlemen! To reintroduce the suckler cow premium perhaps in advance for the spectators: Mother cowkeeping is the most natural form of attitude, calves can stay with their mothers, are sucked by mother cows and usually come to the pasture later or can grass on the pasture. As so often, the ÖVP only has lip confessions and announcements. [[Call the ÖVP: Go!]] It is becoming more and more obvious: The 18 ÖVP delegates from the Farmers' Federation cannot prevail. [[Call the ÖVP: Are you sure?]] After all, the situation of sucklers has been devastating for years. As Mr Ries rightly said: It's getting more and more obvious. According to the Green Report, in 2019, the agricultural and forestry farms did not generate even EUR 28 000 a year on average, while in the case of dairy cows, it was 67 percent less, that is, EUR 9 225 a year – a shame! From the in-the-air view, dear peasantry, nothing will change. How are the mother cow farms to survive without support? In the process, we have also received opinions, for example from the Ministry of Health, which emphasizes the importance and preservation of the well-kept cultural landscape and the importance of the mother cow farms. We have also been able to obtain an opinion from cattle farming Austria, which points out that in other countries, such as Spain, France, Italy, Belgium, Hungary and the Czech Republic, the mother cow farming is supported. The way calves stay with their mothers is extremely important for maintaining the cultural landscape, for rural structures and for tourism. Mutter cow farming is also an important economic form for beef production. Dear peasantry, the numbers say a lot! The suckler cows in Austria are getting less and less. It needs support for this economic form, and you should finally let your announcements follow. That is why I put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[22:25]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e64886	Thank you. The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported – seven signatures! – and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Kollross is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e64911	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Values Advisors, if someone else is willing to do so at a later hour! To the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, I would like to say the following: I believe that all of us – and above all the members of this committee – should deal more seriously with this issue. Today we are discussing the final report on ten petitions and six citizens' initiatives. As far as I can see this, there has never been one on this issue, namely that none of these petitions and none of these citizens' initiatives have been allocated to a competent committee. The only thing that happens is that you end up negotiating that you can discuss it quickly in here again. These topics are then gone, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with citizens' initiatives, with citizens' interests simply and simply not! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Deputies Bernhard and Künsberg Sarre.]] Therefore, to the address of the ÖVP, from which one could expect it, but also to the address of the Greens: I believe that in principle you would have a different philosophy of politics, namely that concerns of citizens are also heard here in this Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits]] We can have different opinions on the various petitions and citizens' initiatives that are being dealt with in this committee, but we should at least discuss them and not just debate them in the Committee on Petitions, get a few opinions and then bury the initiatives. Let us at least discuss them in the relevant committees! I would expect that the concerns of the citizens of this committee will be dealt with more seriously in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e64959	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e64980	Mr President. High house! Appreciate Seers! In today's speech, I am dealing with the Parliamentary Citizens' Initiative on "The Prohibition of the Animal Plague, the Intoxication of Chess and the Prohibition of the "post-cut-stunning" method of honing". The shaft is the ritual slaughter of an animal in Judaism and Islam. Typical of this is the cutting of the animal's neck beater through a fast, professionally executed shaft cut without prior intoxication. It is important to complete the bleeding of the animal, as it is only possible to consume unblooded meat. Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, according to the current legal situation, slaughters without prior stunning are in principle prohibited, but are permitted in the case of mandatory religious commandments or prohibitions of a legally recognized religious community. The Signatories of this Parliamentary Citizens' Initiative are now demanding that the shafts in which the animals suffer immense pain be completely banned in Austria as well. In many Member States of the European Union – such as Poland, Denmark or Sweden – and even in Switzerland, chess has been banned for some time. For example, the Danish Ministry of Agriculture considers that freedom of religion is not above animal law. According to the recent case law of the European Court of Justice of the beginning of this year, there is no right to ritual shafts without stunning. This allowed EU Member States to ban ritual shafts without stunning the animals. Ladies and gentlemen! We now have the opportunity to act in the sense of animals and can thus place animal protection above religious freedom. I therefore put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[22:30]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e65132	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e65156	Petitions are an important tool for citizens to be heard in the House. The collection report for petitions brings many issues, and I would like to take out a few petitions. There is once the petition concerning ‘Legal deposit guarantee for municipalities’. In principle, it is important to help the communities and to ensure that communities can invest accordingly. However, I believe that with our community package one and two we help the communities far more than with a legal deposit guarantee. Communities need security and reliable payments regardless of economic fluctuations. I therefore believe that it is right for this petition to be taken note of. I would like to take a second initiative. It is the citizens' initiative on police planning in Villach. This citizens' initiative calls for the number of police planning posts to be increased. In the 2021 budget, 2.1 billion euros were spent on the National Police Directorates. That is 100 million euros more than in 2020. I think this has resulted in this proposal for this citizens' initiative more than enough, because, for example, the 40 planning sites set up in Villach account for 105 percent. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Thank you. We're always talking about regionality here. Regionality is not only important when shopping, but also when it comes, for example, to police stations and district courts. I think it's a nice success that the location of Telfs could be saved, the local court remains there, and there's no closing. Since there is still a little time left, I would like to say something about petitions and citizens' initiatives in general: I believe that the citizens are working hard to bring in citizens' initiatives. It is a great effort, but it will end up here in the House at a later hour, if not all are attentive, if perhaps not all can be treated in due accuracy. I would like to see petitions and citizens' initiatives treated more prominently. I would also like us to inform those who bring petitions and citizens' initiatives at the moment when we make a decision here, i.e. in good time. At the latest then, the intruders should also know what the state of things is. In accordance with the appreciation, I therefore call for more attention to petitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e65201	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e65223	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have just heard from my previous speaker, Mr Fischer, what she wants, how important citizens are, how best to have a speech in the Committee on Petitions, and how we should discuss this earlier on a plenary day. Faith You're not a single word! – All that is said is free-invented and has no real-life relationship. Rather, the truth is that in the last Committee on Petitions we had 60 agenda items, 16 initiatives were taken. That is to say, one has decided to pass on a concern of citizens to a specialist committee. It does not matter whether this was a social policy concern, a foreign law or an environmental concern, everything was simply taken note of. It was not the case that the people who have expressed these concerns wanted to do the same. In four out of 16 cases it was comprehensible, in twelve cases it was pure party tactics, without real necessity. – The reason why we had 60 points on the agenda is as follows: In the first year of the joint government, it was simply not possible to decide what to do with citizens. This government is a disaster for citizens' participation. [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Well, please!]] Mr Van der ÖVP, you are welcome to come out. I can tell you something – and that doesn't mean anything to you, by the way: I have had the honour of chairing the Committee on Petitions since 2014. There was first a red-black government at that time, then you became turquoise, and there was a turquoise-blue government, and now there is a turquoise-green government. At no time before a green government participation, it was about citizen participation as badly ordered as it is today. There has been no single session in the last seven years, neither together with the Social Democrats nor together with the Liberals – we have pointed out this in the Committee on Petitions – in which no concern has been passed on to a technical committee. It's only since the Greens are in the government. I am not saying this from party calculations, but from honest indignation, because the simplest topics have not been taken into consideration. I would now like to come to an example: There were, as has been said, different topics. One of the petitions that has been taken note of was Mr Shetty's petition for non-discrimination. There was also a similar petition on the part of social democracy, and I also know that there are green Members who are working for it in the House. Yannick Shetty brought in the petition, and – what a luck! – A short time later, the Minister responsible announced that by the end of December 2020, there would be a solution to non-discrimination-free blood donation. At the time of the postponements, there was the argument that the Minister responsible had said he would take care of it by the end of December. So, at the end of December, we've got January. He didn't do anything, but the failure was enough reason to take note of it. The same is true of dealing with other citizens, i.e. delaying them for a while, getting a few comments, and eventually trying to bury them at a later hour. We are doing, and this is an essential point of NEOS, the first time since we have entered the National Council, we have not taken part in the adoption of the collection report. We will vote against for the first time, and the liberals know that we are not there easily, because we believe that if we do not present a sign, we will be able to say the same to the citizens in the future when we take over the petitions and citizens' initiatives: People, throw it in the dungy, it doesn't matter, you don't want to deal with citizens in this government coalition! That is why I would like to give you, ladies and gentlemen, but now, as I have mentioned, Mr Shetty's petition, the chance that we can fix it again, and bring in a motion for a resolution to that effect: [[Quoted print version removed]] We are constructive, we are helpful, we help Mr. Anschhober, give him a little more time and hope for a corresponding activity from his side. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[22:39]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e65344	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly implemented, and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Weidinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e65369	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin with my perceptions during the commitment as a member of the Committee on Petitions and to begin by thanking Mr Bernhard for his careful leadership of the Committee. We argue very, very objectively. In the run-up to all political groups, the Committee's meetings are well-accredited, well prepared, therefore, the content and the various materials are discussed with seriousness, for, ladies and gentlemen, the essential thing in democracy is that the concerns, the needs and concerns of people are taken seriously – and they will! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, last year we had to deal intensively with a global pandemic. A very, very big concern of the population is to get through this crisis healthy and good. We accept this concern. However, we accept the petition committee of all the materials, and I would like to quote two briefly here: The one is the problem with the police in Villach. In the meantime, the demand for expansion of the planning sites has been overcrowded – as Mr Fischer has done – and thus this important issue of citizens has been brought to a positive conclusion. We also deal with noise protection, for example. Allow me to do this! We have the coral railway for which the Republic is taking 5.4 billion euros to connect the central areas in the Styria and Carinthia to achieve faster accessibility. We support proactive citizens' initiatives from the Central Carinthia in order to provide noise protection for existing areas. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I am particularly grateful to the local representatives of Pörtschach and Krumpendorf, the mayor of Silvia Häusl-Benz, Mr. Vice-Chairman Gernot Bürger and also Mrs. Olga Vogluer, who is actively involved in this process of fully supporting the citizens' initiatives. Time has not allowed us to make further comments on these issues, but be sure that this issue will continue to accompany us, in all the committees. What distinguishes this government, ladies and gentlemen, is that we think in cross-sectional zones, not only in pre-defined drawers, but also in a common way, in order to get Austria through the crisis very well and, above all, to create a positive perspective for the people in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e65414	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e65435	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, my petition “Close with the obstacles to the Family Hard Fund” is also on the agenda today for the final negotiations. The argument of the government groups in the committee was that the difficulties that accompanied this aid fund from the outset have now been ended. – Yes, that would be nice if the rapid and unbureaucratic assistance promised to the families had also arrived at all. Unfortunately, however, there are still families who do not have money on the account, and these are the families who depend on every euro, who have anxieties of existence, who are afraid of delogging, who are afraid of losing their home. An example from practice only reached me yesterday. A works councillor informed me yesterday that six months ago she had filled out and sent numerous requests for employees. They themselves did not have Internet access and were dependent on assistance when applying. These applications have one thing in common: So far, there was no information and no payout. Six months wait and no information and no money! Since the need was great, it was re-phoned, and after 40 minutes in the waiting loop, the information came that they had to re-apply. After six months of waiting, re-apply! Ladies and gentlemen! In recent weeks, we have heard much about the burden on families, children and young people that women are particularly affected by unemployment, that domestic violence is increasing, and that home often becomes a place of fear. For almost a year, parents have been fighting through home office, home schooling, short-time work and unemployment. The financial reserves are exhausted and positive prospects are not in sight. In view of these facts, the petition's demands are not fulfilled, but are very up-to-date. On the contrary, there is an urgent need for reform and the extension of this assistance. Create the possibility of a second payout, because the emergency of many families lasts for almost a year, and they need real help that comes, and they need it now.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e65469	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e65490	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Again to the general understanding – hard to understand for me –: Noticing does not mean that adjacent projects are going to say goodbye, are ready, are no longer being treated. A petition, a citizens' initiative, is there for us as Members of Parliament to deal with it. I myself can say to individual citizens' initiatives and petitions that I have personal contacts with the Citizens' Initiatives are to be maintained and in direct and active exchange with them. This is the case with many Members of all political colleagues here in the House, and this will continue to be done so after taking note of this here in the House. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] This concerns the expansion of the linkway in Hietzing, to which there is an active exchange with the citizens, in which a design competition and the implementation of this project are now being discussed. Strong citizen participation is very important here and will happen in the district parliament in Vienna and, of course, here in the Hohe Haus and in exchange with the competent bodies, the BMK and the ÖBB. With regard to traffic problems in Kittsee, a traffic problem, which is also about toll flight, I am quite clear that we will not solve every traffic problem with vignette exemptions. We must take a very clear look at where the problems in this area lie and insist that there is also a lack of spatial planning policy in recent years. Here, too, we are required to act accordingly on those who are councillors or mayors as regards traffic. On the subject of deportation stop for trainees in care professions we have succeeded in especially for the Teaching to decide essential building blocks so that there is a deportation stop for apprentices. With regard to nurses, we Greens have a very clear position: If people in this country are willing to resist the need for care through their use, that is what we consider to be in the public interest. There is still a need for persuasion here in the House to involve this public interest in the legislative process in order to implement it in accordance with the Ministry of Health as part of the care reform. That's our goal, we're working for it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In particular, it is a matter of appreciation for exchanges on citizens' issues with interested citizens' initiatives. This is our job here in the House. I would like to thank Mr Bernhard for his work on the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives and call on everyone to continue to stay together and actively address citizens' concerns. This is the task of each Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e65547	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e65569	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! Today we are discussing a comprehensive report from the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. I should like to speak about the petition concerning the Family Hard Fund. The Corona Family Hardship Fund is aimed at families who are in financial difficulties as a result of the crisis. It is important to all of us that families receive support that they need especially in difficult times like these. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In that petition, concerns were raised to the Corona family hardening fund. Mr Wimmer has tabled this and referred to a parliamentary question from July. Since then, a lot has happened, and that is also good. In addition to simplifying the administration and increasing staff, the Family Hard Fund has also had new directives since 1.1.2021. This means, for example, that the conditions for the claim have been relaxed. From now on, you are entitled to family benefits if you have received family allowances at the latest when applying for them. The circle of the referees has also been expanded. Since the beginning of the year, for example, farmers who have been uncultivated in financial difficulties have been able to make these applications. In 2020, around 72 500 families with almost 100 million euros were supported by the Family Hard Fund. On average, the families received around EUR 1 300. The assistance from the Family Hard Fund is very much requested due to the crisis, so it is very, very important and good that these funds will also be available in 2021. We have difficult and demanding times for each one of us and for our whole society. Everyone has their very personal package with worries, needs and fears to wear, yet I am convinced that we must not be softened. There will be lighter times again, there will be better times again. Right now the wind is still blowing very rough, the Covid crisis has some windbow that threatens to throw us out of the train. It's up to all of us to stick together now, and then we'll pack it. I'll keep it all up with Aristotle: We can't change the wind, but we can set the sails correctly.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e65620	Mr Laimer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e65641	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In advance, I would like to say that the government participation of the Greens in the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives has so far not brought any added value to direct democracy. On the contrary! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] In their self-perception and self-representation, they like to see themselves as the party of transparency and civil rights. However, they are now demasked in a bold government obedience to the ÖVP. I would like to point out this by means of two examples: Let us look at the legitimate demands of the citizens' initiative Without art and culture, which were set silently, among other things, within the framework of the 2020 silence march! Under no circumstances did the ÖVP want to deal with this issue in the Committee on Culture in Parliament. And what do the greens do? – Rather than debate the needs of the artists, they are able to develop solutions to how to support artists quickly and unbureaucratically. Especially for artists who live on creativity and activity, the time of not occurring is extremely stressful and frustrating. Apart from that, the current situation is a huge damage to the Austrian cultural nation. In fact, creativity cannot be mastered. A completely different example relates to the protection and security of our Republic in the form of the petition “Rettet the Federal Army”. A statement by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany on military defence seems to fear the ÖVP as the devil fears the water of the consecration. All opinions on this subject are welcomed, but the opinion of the Federal President – after all, the constitutional chief commander of the Federal Government – is not desirable, yes, it will be shubbled once again. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to further develop democracy, committed citizens need – people who deal with topics of a wide variety and also bring their statements into the parliamentary cycle. This commitment is irreplaceable for our house. We want, as a people's representative, the Found different groups of people get, see, and feel – not only in elections, but throughout the entire period of government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Committee on Petitions is probably as diverse and colorful as any other committee. It is therefore our responsibility to examine, debate and, of course, question these concerns closely. A pragmatic note of petitions, which follows a drawer, must and cannot become the practice of this committee, because democracy needs progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e65699	Mr Minnich is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e65720	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in the House! A good evening to all the spectators at home! The scope of the Committee on Petitions's collective report is once again remarkable and shows how this instrument of direct democracy is appreciated and used even in times of Corona. I would like to comment briefly on the citizens’ initiative on the “Danging the UNESCO World Heritage Site “Historical Centre of Vienna” by the Heumarkt-Hochhaus project, which was supported by more than 600 people. At this point a great thank you to all the supporters for their use. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Our federal capital is and has always been a living world city. That's also very good. A world city must meet many criteria and requirements: the cultural heritage, the congress and economic location, the needs of its inhabitants and, of course, the requirements of tourists, which we hope to welcome soon after the pandemic. But precisely to meet these many requirements requires a special effort in planning. Because of the very fact that there have been errors, it is now clear that: With the decision of the Vienna Municipal Council to plan the area, it was precisely the “risk of the UNESCO World Heritage Site “Historical Center of Vienna” that enabled this decision to build a 66-metre high-rise building on the Heumarkt. Let us take care of our valuable cultural heritage in our federal capital as well as in all of Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e65763	Mr Bayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e65785	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the two petitions of Heinisch-Hosek and Shetty, which deal with the question of discrimination against non-blood men, and they both want one not to shift to the question of whether a man has sex with another man, but to the general risk behaviour of someone. I mean not only sexual risk behaviour, but also a more comprehensive risk behaviour. There were hearings, there were expert opinions, round tables, there was an ECJ judgment of 2015, all of which came to the conclusion: It is discrimination if men refuse the blood donation only because of their sexual orientation. But it does not happen too much, which is quite tragic. But what I honestly find even more tragic is: If after eleven months Corona is unable to investigate blood donations on the most common viruses before they are administered, then good night! We should actually bring that together in a large way. [[Abg. Loacker: The shot is...!]] That's right! Anschober just fell as a keyword. [[Abg. Shetty:... Core competence...!]] It is relatively difficult to find that the Minister of Health could actually change this regulation with a dash, so that states like Brazil and Hungary – not exactly the hort of progress with regard to the lives of LGBTIQ people – could follow, for in these countries, for example, this discrimination has already been abolished. There are already evidence-based ways of excluding people from the blood donation or not. So it would be fine if Mr. Anschober took the pen into his hand, put the pen in the spring, and let this regulation arrive sometime in the present century. It's time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] To deal as opposition parties with the fact that there are any announcements over and over again and again we are invited to some round tables – not to be angry, but we have relatively much to do to avoid discrimination elsewhere. [[Abg. Shetty: The Sniper...!]] As long as, for example, a general levelling-up is prevented, we have to fight elsewhere and can't deal with this question constantly and forever. We will, of course, support and support the NEOS request. Since I am standing out here and it is also an eternal issue in the Committee on Petitions: the question of abortion law. There are more and more citizens’ initiatives – petitions rather less, but citizens’ initiatives – that simply and gripping women want to take their right to self-determination. This has been fought hard; in many countries, for example in Argentina or South Korea, women have only recently fought. Let me say the following: We will not allow the women of Austria to be taken away even one millimetre of their self-determination rights! - So much for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e65854	Members of Parliament have been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e65875	Mr President. High house! All those who are even more mint! Especially now that the whole world is looking for a vaccine against Corona and finding it, we see how important modern medicine is for all of us. In addition to vaccination, the donation of blood is one of the greatest success stories of medicine and has already saved millions of lives. I also have to agree with my colleague Shetty and colleague Heinisch-Hosek, who is not in the hall at present, on the fact that blood canneds are more than urgently needed. But where I cannot agree to you and what I strongly reject is that science deliberately excludes gay and bisexual men from the donation. [[Abg. Shetty: Not science, the Red Cross!]] The de facto ban on the blood donation of homosexual and bisexual men should be considered as to whether it is necessary in the interests of the safety of the recipients or whether it is discrimination, i.e. a non-equal treatment without an objective reason justifying this inequality treatment. It is only science that is responsible for examining. This is currently being evaluated, and the Commission has once again been involved in the subject, including with regard to the approach in other European countries. That is why we do not agree with your request, Mr Bernhard, which has just been tabled, because it is fundamentally a scientific one, a medical one, an epidemiological one and not a political one. Supreme Commandment must be the safety of patients. If this is guaranteed, there is nothing against opening the blood donation even for gay and bisexual men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e65912	The honourable Member is hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e65933	Mr President. High house! I am allowed to deal with the petition “without art will be silent” in which many artists, many institutions, have expressed their concerns and needs regarding the cultural business – and politics has responded. I can only mention a few things here: These include the WKO hardening fund, the bridge fund for independent artists with 110 million euros – from 15. For the first quarter of 2021, 3 000 euros can be requested – the corona short work, Covid-19 tests, the Künstler Social Insurance Fund, the turnover replacement for events and artists directly affected, the revenue replacement for indirectly affected, a reduction in VAT, the NPO support fund – since we have decided for 2020 700 million euros, for 2021 250 million euros are in the pipeline. There are charges, tax reliefs, an extension of the voucher solution for cancelled events and 300 million euros for the organiser screen. Yes, we know that sometimes it is laborious to apply for these promotions, and we also know that the best thing for our artists would be if they could act, enjoy the applause, play in front of the audience. Finally, I should like to make a proposal to appreciate: In the German Infectionary Protection Act, cultural institutions are now expressly regarded as educational institutions and art production sites, no longer – as in Austria – as places of leisure and pleasure in the taxative listing with brothels and with running houses. Culture should also be valued by the legislator in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e65967	Mrs Gerstl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e65988	Mr President. High house! I can speak today about three issues of Vienna, all of which concern the protection of the historical heritage of Vienna and, in particular, the planning error of the city of Vienna. First – it has already been addressed today –: Protection of the World Heritage Site for the Inner City. This is about finally laying the hay market project ad acta. The city of Vienna has a stop, and NEOS have always known themselves to want to come to a truly world-friendly situation in this project. We can now remind NEOS in its new role as a member of the Vienna City Government of their position and ask them to ensure that this will be the same. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second point – still such an historic heritage, on which Vienna places special importance or we place special importance – is the Otto-Wagner-Area, also a project in which NEOS have long tried to preserve this historical heritage. Now they want to build a cable car, but I'm telling you: Put more value on the fact that this white city is preserved! In your new role in the city government, fight for an application for world heritage status for the Otto-Wagner area at last. [[Abg. Listen:... cable cars!]] That would be a good step you could take for the Viennans. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am therefore in favour of a third concern, which concerns my constituency, namely the connecting line in Hietzing. We also had a fighter from the NEOS, who declared in a press release in June 2020: There really is a proper involvement of the population, and there is no way to speak of participation, if even political parties are not involved in the dialogue. - I can only agree with you. Change the situation for the line here in Vienna! Take advantage of your chance of government participation and provide a linkway that does not pass the heads of people on the windows in Hietzing, but see that Hietzing is also worth living and that this linkway Hietzing does not separate but reunites people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66037	Mr Gahr is speaking on behalf of the European Democratic Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66058	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I may briefly take a position on the citizens’ initiative “Retaining the District Court at the Telfs site” in the Tyrolean Oberland. Telfs is the third largest municipality in Tyrol with 16,000 inhabitants, and there have been discussions and plans to merge Telfs with Hall. This would have meant that the District Court would have been pushed to the east 40 kilometres. The Council of Telfs has launched an extra-party citizens' initiative with 3 525 signatures. It was introduced to the National Council in July. A statement by the Ministry of Justice now made it clear that there are no plans and no intentions to close the district court site of Telfs. This location, I think, is important in all. It serves 55 000 inhabitants of the region. It is a valuable infrastructure and, of course, also connected with lawyers and notaries in the community, so it creates more proximity and civil kindness. Mr Weratschnig and other previous speakers have already stressed this today: We can therefore bring in citizens' initiatives and citizens' concerns directly. I invite everyone to make use of it. It is important that the people have a strong voice, and this will be possible through these instruments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66091	Mr Bernhard referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66116	I'm making an actual correction: Mr Gerstl – there he is – has in his great love for the NEOS and his list of our election promises in Vienna also claim that we want to build NEOS a cable car across the Otto-Wagner area. Rather, it is true that we want to commission a study, which includes the question of whether it has added value for the population in Vienna when a cable car is built there – results open. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] It may be, it can't be. This is how studies in NEOS work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66164	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Can we go into the vote? - Good. I can go to the vote. Vote on the request from the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives to take note of its report 604 of the supplements relating to petitions Nos 1, 3, 6, 12 and 13, 18 and 19, 33, 35 and 38, as well as the Citizens' Initiatives Nos 5, 11 and 12, 20, 28 and 30. Whoever does this, may set a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schmiedlechner, colleagues, on 'Re-introduction of the suckler cow premium'. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Peter Schmiedlechner, colleagues on the ban on ritual chess. Who is for that, I ask him for signs. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Shetty, ladies and gentlemen, on the implementation of non-discrimination-free blood donation. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. [[Abg. Shetty: Even the FPÖ is for that!]] – This is the minority, rejected. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[23:11:02]] 17. Point first reading: Request by Dr. Stephanie Krisper, Ing. Reinhold Einwallner, Mag. Hannes Amesbauer, BA, colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act (B-VG) and the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Regulatory Law 1975) (1086/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66240	We'll get to Agenda item 17. We are going into the debate. The applicant, Mrs Krisper, is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66269	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen at home! [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] At the latest since the outcome of the BAT study committee, we know that the BAT needs a new set-up, comprehensively: legal, organisational, personnel. This has already begun in the course of his term of office, and we are now trying to help bring an end to the BAT reform very soon. It is clear to us, however, that any reform is also accompanied by a reorientation of parliamentary control. At the moment, there is the Parliamentary Supervisory Board Subcommittee of the Committee on the Interior, called UAIA, which is responsible for controlling its function, which cannot fulfil to a serious extent. Why? – The BAT is in itself a double black box: on the one hand, because – as is now known – the BAT was far too long a way of playing for the party-political interests of the ÖVP, on the other hand, because the control has so far been completely inadequate. Thus, Syrian war criminals may receive asylum under the protection of BAT, be protected, be hidden, and then, when it has flown up, be helped to escape, as one reads. We MEPs in the Secret Service Committee still do not know any more about the reasons why the BAT got involved in this matter when we knew from the newspapers. So there seems to be a Jan Marsalek in the BAT, and we MEPs in the Secret Service Committee still do not know how it could happen that he was the Jan from the BAT and how to react. As members of this committee, we have no information on the state police situation of the Republic, neither in the far right nor in the far left, nor in the Islamic field. We have no information about intelligence activities of other powers or about economic espionage on Austrian soil. How can I control an authority if I don't know what she's doing? I can't even judge whether the BAT is active in these areas – then it becomes really tragic and difficult, because then something like that happens on the 2nd. In November, the BAT cannot sufficiently protect us from this, because it does not follow clear indications quickly enough. The BAT is a black box in a double sense, and it is no longer allowed to exist after this reform. In doing so, we three opposition parties agree, and that is why we have tabled this well-founded initiative proposal, which builds on the example that is being lived in Germany. We are therefore discussing today a proposal that would finally give our committee the powers to act as a control force, because the BAT needs control because control creates prevention, creates information, creates legitimacy. That is why, with the help of this request, we want to move away, in particular, from the right of Members to information and to the obligation to inform the Minister. Why? – Currently it is for us as for every other citizen, every other citizen: We read the paper, read of a scandalous case like that mentioned, are outraged and concerned, so we call a committee meeting – after which we are usually not smarter than before. This is a state which does not benefit the BAT and which does not bring peace and professionalism into the debate. In the future, therefore, we expect an obligation to provide information from the Minister, who provides us with situations, but also in particular: There are occasions before the whole media wakes up and we get into debates, which are also not good for the Office in terms of peace and continuity. I am therefore referring, in particular, to the support of the Green Members, but also to the EIA, it should be a concern to become more transparent and more serious in the field of control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66332	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66354	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! We have already dealt in detail with the BAT today, on constitutional protection, within the framework of the current hour of Europe, and this request by the opposition parties also deals with this subject area. In essence – and this has been done by Mr Krisper – this is about parliamentary control, about the teaching obligations to the Standing Subcommittees. It concerns not only the Standing Subcommittee on the Interior, but also those for the defence of the country and generally the control of Parliament. I do not want to go too far, but I should also like to repeat what the Minister of the Interior has already given to him this afternoon. We all agree, I believe, that there is a need for reform in the field of BAT. It has already been initiated by the Minister of the Interior and is also anchored in the government programme – and I think that is a very essential point. Of course, an essential part of the anti-terrorism package presented is this reform of the BAT, and above all – and this has been done by the Minister of the Interior – the separation between constitutional protection and the state police tasks. This is an essential priority because it also brings more efficiency in the investigation and defence of hazards. Above all, this new set-up – and this will also be formulated in your request – will strengthen confidence in the intelligence services again. The Minister of the Interior has said today that we have already made positive progress and that this has enabled confidence in the BAT to be regained, above all, by European and international partner services. I believe – and this has been mentioned – that parliamentary control and the knowledge of these processes for the parliamentary groups are, of course, essential. Today, the Minister of the Interior has also been assured – and so it takes place – that all parliamentary groups will be involved in this reform and that the corresponding suggestions will also be included. I think we're on the right track, too. Since the request states that it is about strengthening confidence in the BAT and signing it to the liberals, it must already be noted with an additional sentence that confidence, especially in the term of Minister of the Interior Kickl, was broken and destroyed by the illegal search of the house and the following uncertainty. The Commission of Inquiry on Terrorist Attack has also found that the employees there are insecure. Nevertheless, there are important and good points of discussion within this request, which we will not close down, because the parliamentary control of these intelligence agencies is also essential for us. We will discuss this intensively, I believe, in the committees, since it concerns several services, and we will also find a good consensus. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66399	Member of the European Parliament is hereby notified. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66420	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am already looking forward to how the discussion will become in committee. So far we have experienced something else, Mr Hammer, so far it has been true that, while we have repeatedly invited this reform of the BAT and especially the extension of parliamentary control rights in many, many discussions, to talk and have called on the government parties to finally start talks on this subject, nothing has happened at all. Nothing has happened until we, the three opposition parties, have tabled this request here in the house, which will then be dealt with. I think this is an important step. For whether a BAT reform can be successful and is carried by a broad majority here in the house, a key will be the parliamentary control rights of this committee with regard to the BAT and the intelligence services. That is why I am very, very excited about whether the announcements made by the Minister of the Interior today, how she is doing to Mr Mahrer again and again in plenary or how you, Mr Hammer, are saying it now – that you are seriously dealing with the request – really comes true. I am convinced that this request is a very, very well-founded basis for a discussion on the control rights that Parliament needs in my view for the intelligence services. Mr Krisper has already referred to this point: I think it's a completely different approach and a paradigm change when we talk about this control or intelligence committee, whatever we call it. Not only do we receive reports, but there is a duty to teach that we can demand that we have a minority right in this control committee of the BAT or other intelligence services. This needs to be established, as Parliament's position needs to change, as the role of parliamentarians in the committee needs to be changed, since it needs a report to this House. All of these are very concrete proposals – and in a context, as we do internationally – that have been put in place by the opposition parties, in a serious and well-designed way. This is actually the sample of nails, whether the EIA is really willing to talk seriously about the reform here, and whether the Greens can prevail that there really is Parliament's control rights. I am excited about the discussions and am looking forward to an exciting discussion in the Committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66458	Member of the Amesbauer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66479	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The joint request of the opposition parties to strengthen the parliamentary control of the BAT is on the table, has been discussed and will now be discussed more intensively in the Committee. If one is allowed to trust the signals of the ÖVP, then I agree positively once. We know there are massive problems in the BAT. We have different opinions about the causes – as we have experienced for months now and have seen it again today – but I would like to leave that aside. What all of us here in this House should do and what our duty as parliamentarians should be is to ensure proper constitutional protection. That doesn't mean we say from home: Yes, the proposals for the BAT reform, which are now at the table, we wipe away! I would really like to stress that the talks of the security spokesmen – these were individual talks – with the Director-General for Public Security were very constructive. The proposals at the table are good and disputable. But one thing is clear to us, of course: Without the extension of parliamentary control, it will certainly not be possible. That's also in your government program. At the time, Mr Bürstmayr, when we, the opposition parties who proposed, responded very positively with an OTS broadcast. I hope that – I don't want to list this again now, you know the request – happens: We want a minister's obligation to teach, not only the right of information, but also the ability to take everything out of the mind of the Minister, but also to inform the Committee of a reporting obligation to the National Council, the possibility of obtaining documents and documents in the context of minority law with a quarter of the Parliament. We have been very focused on international examples, specifically on the example of the Federal Republic of Germany, and of course we have adapted to the Austrian situation. We are aware that this is a very, very sensitive topic. You shouldn't see this as an attack now, no one in the BAT or anywhere else needs to be afraid. We should all see this as a great opportunity to improve the quality of parliamentary work in the security field, and also as an opportunity for the BAT itself to have proper parliamentary control. I believe that this proposal would really be a good basis for discussion. It does not have to be translated into a point and an addition, and it has already been very, very detailed – it is actually a legitimate request that could be implemented in this way. But from the beginning, even at the presentation, we have said that we are ready to talk. This offer has now come from the government side. I am a little skeptical, I join my colleagues in Einwallner, but we should not lose hope. It would be nice if, at the end of the day, we could bring together a five-party proposal, an agreement, because it is ultimately about the security of the Republic of Austria, and we are all jointly responsible.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66518	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66540	Mr President. At the end of this evening, this will be very much reconciled. [[Call the Greens: Now wait!]] I would like to point out a possible conflict of interest, which is not reflected in the fact that three opposition parties have submitted a very detailed request, which could be concluded: Aha, that's the usual match, opposition to government, and then we know what's going on with the majority of governments, but in the further development of the right of parliamentary control of this intelligence, there could be a conflict between this service and us parliamentarians. If I try to put myself into the role of the BAT or one of its executive officials, then my first spontaneous reaction is: I'm not telling you anything, we're a secret service! – This is what these services have in themselves, not only in Austria. I would therefore suggest that we also try to have this in mind, this interest in secrecy, or at least the confidentiality of certain details. For example, there has been a great excitement in this house search concerning lists of names, because one or two DVDs have been taken along, on which there were clear names of domestic and foreign agents. - That's understandable. That is to say, it will be of interest on the part of this service not to disclose certain things. There will also be great distrust of our Members in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection's Standing Subcommittee, although we are committed to confidentiality. We will have to deal with this, and we will have to find a solution, because what I agree with you, in which the Greens agree: As in the past, we cannot continue – not only with regard to the service itself, but also with regard to control – which is clearly better designed. - Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66575	No one is reporting on this. I can assign the motion 1086/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. [[23:28:13]] 18. Point First reading: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Jörg Leichtfried, Herbert Kickl, Sigrid Maurer, BA, Mag. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, MES, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Rules of Procedure Act 1975 (1178/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66627	We arrive at the 18th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mr Mahrer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66654	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal is the result of our joint deliberations in the Greco parliamentary working group, which deal with the recommendations made by the Council of Europe's group on combating corruption – Greco. In this working group, mandates of all political groups were represented and we have long discussed these recommendations. We have been able to say this right away, that Austria is already at a very good level compared to other Member States. Much of what is recommended by Greco has already been implemented by us, and our negotiations for further improvements in the House have, in my view, also led to a very good result, and this result has ultimately resulted in this all-party proposal, which is at the table today. The two essential contents: The transparency recommended by Greco in relation to legislative proposals, i.e. the so-called parliamentary review procedure, is well-established practice in this House, but the present proposal goes one step further. He notes that all legislative projects – from the introduction to the end of the treatment in the Federal Council – are published on the homepage of the Austrian Parliament and everyone has the right to comment. Furthermore, members of the Immunities and Incompatibilities Committee will be represented as far as possible in dealing with their own matters, i.e. conflicts of interest, in the respective Committee. That also includes this draft. With the proposal for a law debated at first reading today, ladies and gentlemen Mr President, we have reached a consensus between all the parties represented in the National Council and thus set the course for further discussions and parliamentary discussion in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I would particularly like to thank Parliament's Director Dr. Dossi and the staff of the Parliament's Directorate for his extensive work, but also the colleagues of all the political groups involved in this working group. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I think after a 15-hour parliamentary day, it's not just a bit of a reconciliation, it's also something personal when I say: It is good to have experienced in the Greco working group that the results are good across-the-board. – In this sense: Good evening!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66705	We're not going yet, Mr Mahrer, there's no good night yet: There are still words, and we also have an assignment meeting. There's no one to sleep yet, as you can see. The next item is the speech by Mr Drobits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66730	Mr President. High house! Mr Mahrer has already talked about the good climate of discussion in the Greco working group. I can only agree. It was a good cooperation of all political groups with the Parliamentary Directorate, at the head of Director Dossi. It is important for me to say that Austria joined Greco in 2006 and is about combating corruption. It is also important to say that we focused on party funding in 2011 and now, since 2016, on delegates and also on prosecutors and judges. Through Covid and by new elections there were numerous shifts, and now we have come to the conclusion that is available today. The area of the Rules of Procedure – which is part of the overall package – is now inconceivable. As Mr Mahrer has already said, the main issue is that the legislative review process is now being made public and that the opinions are published on Parliament's website. We're not very happy with that, we wanted a little more. We wanted more, therefore, because we wanted to focus not only on the Members of Parliament, but also on the members of the Government and the Federal Government. Unfortunately, we did not succeed. In other countries it is possible that the members of the government will be very likely to include transparency provisions. In consensus, however, it was not possible for us to work on it, although we have always said that government members, the Federal Government, in the private sector, could be profiteers, and we wanted to make that clear and transparent. We have also not succeeded in weakening the invading legislative proposals and initiatives. We know from the past that this often happens in the last few hours or just before the vote. We did not succeed either, but we nevertheless agree with a minimum consensus. We are also in favour of this joint agreement, and I think it is important that we send the outcome achieved to the Council of Europe together with Parliament's Directorate. Finally, I would just like to say: Let us see that we decide today so that this Rules of Procedure can finally get on the way and that the Greco Working Group can finish its work! – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66772	The word is Klubobfrau Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66793	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners, if you still follow us in front of any screens! Yes, it is indeed true that the Greco working group has come to a conclusion. The Greens have only returned to Parliament, and the working group has already worked before. I also came back to this working group and I am very glad that we have now reached a common outcome. What is the most important amendment that we are now making with this Rules of Procedure? . We will create the possibility that in future applications on the Parliament homepage will also be available for consideration that all initiatives can be reviewed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] We also expect to have a positive effect in that the basic questions, whether there is a government proposal or something as an initiative proposal, and whether there is the possibility of public assessment or not, are decoupled from each other. In any case, there will be the possibility to carry out a review and to make comments on the Parliament's homepage. I think that this is a positive aspect, because it is basically unattractive to make government documents without consideration, because everything is anyway being reviewed. There may also be a small pedagogical effect for the government groups, one of which is also the Greens. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff]] [[Rejoicing of the speaker]] In principle, I think it is also good to express appreciation for Parliament and for the initiatives that are being taken by all parties, in particular the opposition parties. It can lead to a significant increase in quality when citizens actually deliver opinions. We'll definitely apply for this. I would also like to express my thanks to Parliament's director, Dossi, and to his staff on this issue. They have really prepared this very intensively, always very comprehensive documents, and this has also led us to decide on this positive result here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66849	Mr Eypeltauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66870	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say, first of all, that this is not everything, but that it is a minimum compromise, which is, of course, determined by the steps that the majority groups – i.e. the government parties Greens and ÖVP – wanted to take. Not only the SPÖ or perhaps the FPÖ, but also we NEOS really wanted us more here and there, but we support this joint compromise which is now under way. It also includes, in particular, a major improvement in the assessment procedures. These review procedures – I explain this to the citizens, who may no longer be watching today, but perhaps in the future – draw attention to obvious or hidden shortcomings in legal papers and contribute significantly to them, that experts, professionals and institutions are involved in the legislative process, thereby increasing the quality of laws. Everyone who knows Parliament's business a little bit knows that it is often very important what is being brought in. In the past, these assessments have often and gladly been avoided – precisely by government groups – by directing the thing as an initiative proposal through Parliament. This is no longer possible in the form of proposals for initiative, because there should also be review procedures for own-initiative applications. We welcome this very much. We consider it problematic that it is still possible to set deadlines very briefly. We would have liked to have specified this by law – that is not the case, the government groups did not want it. This is particularly a pity because I believe that the Greens in the opposition had a different opinion on it, but how often it is the ÖVP that determines how it happens – that's what we have to live with. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Nevertheless, we are together today taking an important, although not too big, step towards a better Parliament, more civil participation, more evidence and more transparency. In this sense, it is then a good day for parliamentarianism.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66921	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. I can assign Amendment No 1178/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The agenda is exhausted. I hope it is not you, because we still have a few votes in front of us. [[23:40:01]] Vote on requests for time-limits
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66958	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from Members - I may ask for attention - on Krainer, Fuchs, Double Bauer, Members and colleagues, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for reporting on Amendment 421/A, a deadline until 23. ==References== Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on the request from Mr Krainer, Mr Prince, Mr Krisper, the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs to report to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on a proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. January 2021. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. [[23:40:43]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e66994	I have a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda items 3 and 4 so that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the sitting. I read: ‘Day-and-day arrangements 3: The amendment Annex 3/1 is rejected. The draft law is adopted in the second and third readings in 634 of the Supplements in accordance with the Committee's proposal. Agenda item 4: The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 607 of the Supplements – in the presence of the intended number of Members – shall be adopted taking into account the amendment Supplement 4/1 in a second reading in a separate vote and in a third reading – with the required two-thirds majority.” Are there any objections to the version or content of those parts of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00079_d8e67045	I am entitled to announce that, at today's meeting, self-employed applications have been submitted from 1222/A(E) to 1261/A(E). The next meeting of the National Council on business allocations will be convened at 23:42 a.m., which is immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
