ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e2953	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to welcome you and also the ladies and gentlemen, as well as the ladies and gentlemen who are following the meeting at home in front of the television screens, and to open the 101. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure. The Official Protocols of 97 and 98. Meeting of 21 March 1991 ==References====External links== Meeting of 22. April 2021 have been raised in the Parliamentary Directorate and have not been challenged. As prevented, the Members of this House are reported today. Klaus Fürlinger, Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, Ing. Klaus Lindinger, BSc, Gabriela Schwarz, Dietmar Keck, Andreas Kollross, Robert Laimer, Mario Lindner, Mag. Dr. Petra Oberrauner, Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch, Christian Hafenecker, MA, Ing. Norbert Hofer, Mag. Gerhard Kaniak, MMMag. Dr. Axel Kassinger, Ing. May. Volker Reifenberger, Mag. Philipp Schranglund Mag. Felix Eypeltauer. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e3037	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I may, in accordance with § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure refer to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e3245	I announce that the ORF will transfer the session live in full length. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e3264	In order to be able to negotiate Agenda items 1 and 2, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour delay. Points 1 and 2 are the report of the Health Committee on Amendment 1466/A by Mr Smolle, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr Colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the 1950 Epidemie Act and the Act on the COVID-19 Act, in 813 of the Supplements, as well as the report and request of the Health Committee on the draft Federal Act amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farm Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, in 814 of the Supplements. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen, who have given their consent to the withdrawal from the time-limit for these committee reports, to give them a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e3291	It is proposed that the debates on points 1 and 2 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e3309	Consensus on the duration of the debate was reached between the members of the presidential conference. According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure, a day block time of 2.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times may arise: 49 minutes for the ÖVP, 34 minutes for the SPÖ, 28 minutes for the FPÖ, 25 minutes for the greens and 20 minutes for the NEOS. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club, 5 minutes for the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on speaking time. Whoever agrees, I ask for a corresponding visible sign. – In turn, this is unanimously accepted. Let's go into the agenda. [[13:05:45]] 1. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 1466/A by Mr Dr Josef Smolle, Mr Ralph Schallmeiner, Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Federal Act amending the 1950 Epidemic Act and the COVID-19 Act (813 d.b.) 2. Point Report and request of the Health Committee on the draft federal law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act (814 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e3376	We come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Klubobmann Kickl is speaking. The word stands with him. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e3403	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am always in favour of mentioning things by name and not talking about hot whiting, and I would like to keep them that way today. That is, if we are now discussing the Green Pass, then we are not discussing health policy measures that would be necessary, but then we are discussing the preliminary sad summit of a total restructuring of our society into the authoritarian, just as our President-in-Office Sobotka is pleased with. This has been driven forward for one year at a time: A system of espionage, a system of abduction, a system of rejuvenation of free citizens, of the sovereign you would have to serve, instead of mastering it, that is what you drive, fed with media millions; they prepare things, put them on the road, and occupied them. Under the cover of health protection in combination with a previously rehearsed new Pandemifelion, things have become reality which one would have thought impossible some time ago, at least in a democracy, I would like to say. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, listen carefully to: Because according to your definition – not according to the definition of the World Health Organization, but according to your – as being counted as ill – your system-immanent imperfection is that you highly stylize every positive tested person into a covid case, take the other 99.7 percent and all in all. They pay 100 percent of the Austrian population by taking fundamental and freedom rights or by cutting them into fundamental and freedom rights. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone who thinks only a second about it immediately notices that this procedure is absolutely disproportionate. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No human would do such a thing in another area – no human being! But if you say something, if you are skeptical, if you are critical, and if you do not only consider your opinion to be the only sterile and clean, then the culprit of protection of public health goes down on one, then you are a covidiot or in the favorite variant of the President of the National Council then immediately an antisemit. Ladies and gentlemen! I can't hear this killing argument from Mr Wöginger anymore: Health is the most important! the mouth of people who cannot even spell the word prevention out of the mouth of people who ban the movement and the sport at the fresh air to children, from the mouth of people who have a thousand-fold collated damage to the physical and psychological spheres, from the mouth of people who are now also going to go away with an inexhaustible vaccine product on the pregnant people in this country. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that's not how it is! I am already excited whether Mr Klubobmann Wöginger or Mrs Klubobfrau Maurer will then make it equal to their new Minister of Health and today will also speak with mask at the speaker's desk. Either you do this or you don't, but then I would have liked to know which one of you is wrong: the Wöginger or the Minister of Health? We'll know in a few minutes. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Health is the most important, but in a comprehensive sense and in combination with freedom. Healthy – and that's something you don't remember – can also be slaves, healthy can also be body-owners, and prisoners can enjoy good health, but that's a model we don't stand for. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They treat their own population as if you were dealing with unmistakable grandchildren. They act as if you were the authority to do nothing but protect people from themselves, those people who are alive with both legs and who finance the taxes that you all receive with their work. In fact, they pervert the state from a guaranteer of freedom, from a protector of the rights and property of the individual to an absolute and arbitrary ruler, to a dungeon master of the own population. This is the total reconstruction of the society that you are moving forward. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's a conversion of our way of living, it's a conversion of our way of dealing with each other, our way of working, our way of thinking, and our way of feeling. This is a re-evaluation of all values if you want to achieve it and work on the fact that suddenly things like joy, togetherness or freedom and truth are not a positive thing, but a threat to the population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is a perversion of democracy and a blow to the face of the Constitution – I say this because in a few days there will be commemorative events in which you will sing the High Song of Freedom and Democracy – it is a perversion if the government wants to determine on the basis of number juggling – and something else is not – who gets how much freedom under what conditions, and then also acts as a benefactor. This is a perversion – and this perversion is called a green pass. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The green pass, these are time-limited freedom sports, goodies, treatises for the population for social well-being – China sends greetings – the green pass, which is a piece of normal life under social paroles, which dictates this government completely evidence-free, the green pass, which is a partial or total acknowledgment of individuals, because this is supposedly necessary to protect the great whole. I'll tell you one thing: I'm going to be very bad when I think about the fact that this model is being moved in parallel, as it is already thought about in the green think tanks, and then it comes with this variant to lead the fight to the saving of the world climate. Good night, Austria!, I can only say there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No, ladies and gentlemen, what is being done here is a change of system, which is a new fundamental right regime, which comes about and which you introduce. There is also nothing left of the initially still propagated voluntaryity in testing and vaccination: She broke up in the air. The compulsion is the daily reality. Even if you don't want to do it, the compulsion is the reality, starting in the schools to the workplace – and now you're going to put a chancellor down with the test force. And whoever doesn't trace is down! That's what I call health apartheid. That's what you're implementing with today's day in Austria. And you'll have to take responsibility for that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There would be a single criterion that allowed you to at least partially limit fundamental rights, and that would be if someone was proven to be ill with the corona virus and thus proven to be contagious. This is the only criterion, but then you have to leave the healthy ones alone, then the healthy ones have a right not to be bothered by you – and that is the reason why there is no longer any health in you. There are only people with you who are in front of an infection, so you have to test it all the time, but healthy is abolished! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are only tested, healed and vaccinated. I don't know why you don't notice the absurdities in all of this: You act in contrast to the inventors of the tests and the WHO in such a way that you make any positive tested a sick person. A fool, what's going on! Then we come to the genes: How long have the genes been exempt from testing? Three months? Six months? How long? This is all based on the principle of arbitrariness. And remember that it is true that if someone is considered to be healed, it depends on whether he had a positive test result before. In other words, you can also benefit from a health, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, the whole thing is absurd in the meantime! Then there is the vaccination, the gold standard, so to speak, the climax, the most elitist form of the green grace pass. You are also free of evidence in this respect, however, because the manufacturers of these vaccines themselves cannot tell you how long the vaccine effect lasts, how extensive this vaccine is and whether you really cannot infect anyone else. And what are you doing? They go here and say that after the first dose of vaccination – not after the second, not after the complete vaccination, but after the first dose of vaccination – this protection is already given. This only shows me that all of your measures have nothing to do with health protection at all, but that's about power, it's about submission, it's about control; and that's about a system conversion and nothing else. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They know that despite corona vaccination, people suffer from corona – and not so few. They know that despite corona vaccination, even if they have been given the full dose, people die of Corona – and not so few at all. And you know that there are thousands of side effects worldwide. But you wipe it all out of the table, because it's not about health policy. Finally, I brought you a passage from Jean-Jacques Rousseau’s “Society Agreement” because you can keep the mirror so well and because you may be able to get some of you out of its intellectual state of dusk. Rousseau writes: “The words slavery and law contradict each other, they exclude each other. The following words, regardless of whether they affect the relationship of one person to another or to a people, will always be equally pointless.” – And now hear You're right, because that's the one you're trying to do! – “I conclude a contract with you exclusively for your burdens and my favors that I will keep as long as I like it and that you will keep as long as I like.” This is the model you want to bring on with the green pass, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But remember finally one: The urge for freedom is stronger than the fear that you have been spreading for over a year and that you will continue to spread, that teaches us history. I promise to you today that you will still experience this lesson in your own political body.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e3587	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. – Please
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e3609	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Let us come back to reality and get out of whatever ideas Mr Kickl and his party obviously have of reality! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Let's get back to what it's really about today, because these were just explanations that remind me of a Marvel comic rather than what we're talking about today! [[Abg. Kickl: Why do you speak without a mask?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] Today we have been working on something that we have been working on since March, which we have repeatedly tried in different constellations and beginnings, namely that we can finally get here in Austria that tested, healed and vaccinated persons are equated – and that now looks good. [[Abg. Belakovich: Total surveillance...!]] It now looks like we are finally deciding on this today by a broad majority, which we also need for it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What is the starting situation? – The starting situation is that around the 19th century. May around – this is this aviated date, on which we want to get a step back to normality – in about 50 percent of the vaccines in Austria will have received at least the first trick. That is, these are people who are trying to protect themselves actively against Covid by vaccination. [[Abg. Belakovich: Nothing means that!]] There is now a need for appropriate legal framework to enable these people to return this step back to normality, to social normality. We put vaccinated, healed, tested immediately. It is important that there is no discrimination, even if Mr Kickl says something completely different here. [[Interlocutory calls from Members Amesbauer, Belakovich and Schnedlitz.]] There is no discrimination because for those who are not vaccinated or not healed, there is a replacement procedure in the form of testing. [[Interlocutory calls from Members Amesbauer and Belakovich.]] Testing doesn't hurt, it's not bad, it's not a challenge either. Finally, get it! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schnedlitz.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Dealing with this disease in this country will continue to be a challenge for us! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Stefan and Mr Schnedlitz.]] Look around internationally, look at what happens if you don't do anything if you do it the way you like it! [[Interlocutory calls by Mr Belakovich and Mr Stefan]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Look at what is happening in India at the moment, look at what is happening in Brazil – by the way, by the way, both happen to be precisely countries in which right-wing populists and right-wing extremes are currently in power! [[Interlocutory calls by Amesbauer, Belakovich, Kickl and Stefan]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] There will continue to be a need for action whether you want it or not. It will continue to take care so that we can really take these opening steps carefully. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan]] One step forward is what we want to decide here today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] However, this also includes upgrading the living room tests. This includes not only upgrading these living rooms tests, but also giving people the opportunity to test themselves even more often at home, by increasing from five living rooms tests per month per insured person to ten living rooms tests per insured person, including that. [[Abg. Kickl: Why do you speak without a mask?]] It is about allowing perspectives, perspectives for art and culture, for the Gastro, for social life in this country, in the face of a pandemic that can destroy our health care, which can cause suffering, which also causes people to die – is so! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[New call for tender Belakovich]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: People have always died,...!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Nevertheless, I would also like to take advantage of the possibility to cut another subject briefly; it is a personal concern to me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf]] I was quite shocked last week when I received this from the ninth femicide in this country, the ninth murder of a woman by a man – every two weeks there is a murder in that country. [[Abg. Belakovich: What is it? ... lock everyone in, you're watching everyone!]] It is about making it clear that it does not just need the offers that policy provides. Yesterday, the Minister joined the press together with our club wife. There is also a summit this afternoon on the subject of appropriate measures. [[Abg. Belakovich: On the subject you have nothing to say anyway! Enjoy yourself!]] But it is also about what we as men – and I am speaking very specifically to ourselves as men – have to do. We must be exemplary, we must intervene, we must also observe these offers if they exist. It also applies in particular: As men – as fathers – we are responsible for raising our sons in such a way that they become different and do not display a false, toxic masculinity image. I would also like to have said this here. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] In conclusion: I ask for broad approval of our amendments to the Epidemic Act, the COVID-19 Act and the ASVG. I also ask to bring back more normality to this country, even though some still believe that the whole thing is a sage or, as it were, bad science fiction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e3875	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e3912	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Let me give you one thing: Of course, NEOS is in favour of the return of vaccinated persons to their freedoms, as well as He's the one who got her liberties back. However, it would probably not have been necessary for today's meeting because the Minister has already set out regulations, who can prove where to go, and one could have said that one can also hold somewhere with the proof of vaccination. But it's about staging again. Sebastian Kurz and his Minister of Agriculture act as if they had invented the green passport at European level – that is not the truth, of course. What is it really about? – The Zettelwirtschaft will continue. It will also extend over the next few weeks, only people will be able to drag along their old yellow vaccination pass in addition to all the test tablets to show that they can go somewhere. EU-compatible is not what you deliver. There is a danger that the Austrians will have two passports side by side at the end: an Austrian green pass and a European passport. The draft law has not been reviewed. The concerns of the Medical Chamber, the Chamber of Commerce, as well as those of data protection experts have been removed from the table – but: Full gas ahead in the fog of the data cloud! This is because we are dealing with the core problem: The data quality in Austrian healthcare is today as bad as it was 15 months ago. The government has made no further progress on this point. For example, a year ago, Parliament decided: Yes, if someone has a positive PCR test, then the result is included in the electronic health records, which is recorded in the electronic vaccination, i.e. that one records immunity due to a disease as well as immunity due to vaccination. This has not been done, although Parliament has decided to do so. I don't want to talk about the tens of thousands of antigen tests that are made on a permanent basis, and I don't want to talk about that – every federal country does its own game. Now you have a problem because you need to collect so much data for a real green passport, which you don't create technically. The vaccinations in the electronic vaccination: That's half easy. People with overcome disease: You only have them in the epidemiological reporting system. The antigen tests in the test roads: These are subject to the different systems of the countries. The living room self-tests to be applied 24 hours: As you understand systematically, it is still a mystery. The antibodies tests people make to prove that they still have antibodies, or to check if they may have had a silent infection: They are not systematically recorded at all. So in 15 months, no one has cared about developing the electronic health records so that they can really be used today. Instead, pull Now put all the data together in the Bundesrechenzentrum – after much pleasure! While citizens can see for themselves who has accessed their data when in the electronic health act, they cannot, of course, do so with collected data in the Bundesrechenzentrum – the citizens are no longer lord and mistress of their own data. It is also not clear which antibody tests are recognised, for example, and which are not. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] With this law, the Minister of Health is again given enormous powers of regulation. We know that the Ministry of Health has not grown this responsibility associated with the great empowerment. You, Minister Mückstein, are now receiving a advance of confidence, and if you take it as hard as your predecessor, then the trust is gone very quickly. Yes, we now need more freedom for citizens and at the same time we need less staging and less hot air from government members! It is also to be feared that we will have to be vaccinated very regularly in the future. However, we need a low level of access. We can't keep the vaccination streets up all the time. That is, one has to build the structures in such a way that people have easy access to vaccination at all times. In other countries, you are vaccinated at Ikea or in shopping centres, with us there is no such flexibility – not even a trained pharmacist may give you a booster vaccination in Austria. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] So you have a big show here, a big staging. The green pass is supposed to come: There's nothing coming. There is an extension of the office economy and it is like always a wonderful self-scheduling of the government, but of which the citizens have nothing, and it would really be about it. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[13:28]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e4141	Both motions for resolutions are properly tabled, sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. Klubobfrau Pamela Rendi-Wagner has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e4165	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to speak at the beginning of my speech about the shocking women's murders of the last few weeks, and I would also like to express my compassion and condolences to all children and relatives. The Austrian author Erich Fried made it very clear in his poem “The Violence”. He wrote: “Violence does not begin, / if one kills one. / She starts when someone says: “I love you: / you belong to me!” Nine women's murders since the beginning of the year, nine women's murders in just four months: It's important to name these murders properly. To name them correctly is therefore important in order to be able to fight them permanently and prevent new ones, because the rejection by a woman is never a motive for a murder. [[It is in favour of SPÖ and Greens, representatives of ÖVP and NEOS as well as of the Agg. Bitch.]] The motive of a women's murder is rather hatred of women. The motive is the still very strong power gap between men and women in Austria. The motive is the economic dependence of women linked to the perception of many men. Yes, these women's murders have systems, says Andrea Brem, head of the Vienna women's houses, and she's right about that. These women's murders have systems, they're a social problem, they're not a private one – and that's exactly what it's worth calling, and we're not supposed to close our eyes before this social problem. [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Bitch.]] Look away doesn't apply! In nine women's murders, every murder is too much. Looking away does not apply only to looking and acting! That's why: Ladies and gentlemen, let us look at it, act and decide today together on such an emergency package to protect women in Austria! [[Abg. Angerer:... on the matter, Mr President!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let us set more than just signs together here and today, more than just horror and compassion! Let us act together and act! We must start to put an end to this brutality, because we are all part of this society, in which exactly this cycle of violence against women originates. Yes, it is our responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Bitch.]] On today's theme of the special meeting: Mr. Federal Minister, we all know it's too long. For 14 months, this pandemic has been firmly in control of all of our lives. At this time there were, of course, very different positions here in the house, but one goal, I think, unites us, namely that we finally leave this painful chapter of Corona behind us. For more than four months, there has been a means worldwide, and this means vaccination. Yes, for four months in Austria, the historically largest vaccination has ever been in progress, and one has to say that the beginning of this vaccination in Austria was very pan-rich. It began much too slow, delivered vaccines were initially bunked more than vaccinated. There have been promises to this day, many of which have still not been settled. There were delivery failures, too little vaccine for many age groups, risk groups. Above all, the fact that the Federal Government did not exploit the entire quota for Austria during the EU order is clear. You know, the responsibility for this has been pushed back and forth in recent months and is still being pushed back and forth, it has been fought within the Federal Government, but now, four months after this vaccination start, over two million people have finally been vaccinated in Austria. Most of the elderly – still not enough – I would say, the risk patients are vaccinated and thus protected. For the next few weeks, large deliveries are promised, and that is good, so that hopefully enough vaccine is available for everyone living in Austria. The aim, however, can not only be to have enough vaccine, Mr. Federal Minister, the goal must also be to achieve a high level of vaccination in the population, because only if there are really many, very many in Austria to be vaccinated do we have a realistic opportunity to control this pandemic, as honestly as you must be. We know from studies that around 20 percent of the population are still very skeptical about vaccinations. Our common goal – and I say consciously: our common goal – must be to convince exactly this important fifth in the population, not with imprisonment, but with clear and honest answers to the questions of the population. [[Abg. Kickl: Oh!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] The more people can be vaccinated, the stronger and the more successful we are as a community in the fight against this virus. Now that more and more people have the opportunity to get this vaccination, it is not only infectious, medically correct, but above all ethically meaningful and correct, vaccinated, negatively tested and healed people to give equal rights. The data show that the vaccination not only protects against severe disease, but that to a large extent one is also protected from transmitting this virus in case of a reinfection. [[Abg. Stefan: Healthy...!]] The visit to the host, to the hairdresser, to concerts or theatre performances or to travel – everything is possible if you are healed, negatively tested or vaccinated. This is a principle which, I believe, will unfortunately accompany us longer. [[Abg. Belakovich: Longer?- Oh, my God!]] It must therefore be well thought out when it comes to the implementation of this principle. It is important from our point of view that there is a practical, practical solution for all in Austria, even for older people who do not have a high-tech smartphone for reading QR codes. It is important to have a solution with far-sighted vision, which, in the sense of our freedom of travel, is far beyond our national borders. It is important to have a solution which, of course, carefully and carefully deals with the personal data of the population. Not important is the color of this pass. Whether purple, orange or green, Mr. Federal Minister, that's PR, that's not content and it's totally secondary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In order to get closer to normality, however, it will also be necessary to vaccinate all children and young people as soon as possible. You know, we talked about it too: For the 12- to 16-year-olds, this could soon be the case if the EMA gives green light. The vaccination of pupils – which is actually the goal – should have taken place before the start of school in autumn, so that the schools no longer need to be locked. The more people can be vaccinated – and this is clear – the more the domestic economy can come back to old strength, the more people can find employment again, the better schools can stay open and teach 100%, and the better we can leave the pandemic chapter behind together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e4295	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e4316	Mr. President! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Whenever our Federal Chancellor grumbles himself as a pioneer or as a world champion or lights up any turbo, he not only serves abundantly infantial language images that actually insult any intellectuality, but always deals with the fundamental rights of the population. The same is true now of the green passport for which he is so committed, according to his own words, in Brussels. It's a step into freedom, so he wants to sell it to us. The whole world is envying us again. He is moving forward: first, the hard lockdown policy and now careful with the green pass into freedom. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] It's not like it's been handled this way all over the world. I have followed the call to look around and I may quote the governor of Florida for putting in a green pass, a vaccination, a test obligation, as always called. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] It is totally unacceptable that a government, that authorities or private companies require citizens to present a vaccination certificate or test certificate in order to participate in daily life. - Quote. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Engelberg.]] It notes that this is based on the fact that the freedom and fundamental rights of individuals are permanently restricted, that people's privacy is permanently damaged, and that on the basis of this certificate, two classes of citizens are created, namely the vaccinated and the non-vaccinated. We all know that's extortion. Due to the disadvantages, the non-vaccinated remain. That is why he has decided by law to prohibit authorities and businesses from insisting on a vaccination certificate for citizens if they want to consume goods or services if they want to pursue employment or so that they can enter a particular place at all. It's a pioneer for me, it's a model for me, a world champion. [[Call the World Champion at the ÖVP!]] For this very thing, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Brussels would have to stand up – and not for the opposite of what he does – for the way to insecurity. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The governor of Florida is by no means the only one, including Texas, the second largest state, and other U.S. states. By the way, it could have been possible to base all the corona policy on these states. There were only very short lockdowns there at the beginning, hardly school closures, nothing more since September 2020, no more masking obligation. For months everything has already been lifted, because after a few months of uncertainty it has been converted to a positive, motivating strategy with recommendations: The risk groups that protect older people go with masks – voluntarily – all can be tested voluntarily. By the way, everyone who wanted to do so has already been vaccinated, and there is no pressure. And there are no higher numbers, not even in the holy – indiscriminate – numbers of new infections of the Lord Federal Chancellor. I think that this policy would be a guiding principle for one of the constitutional ways in which one could deal with such an appearance as the corona virus – exemplary, constitutional and proportionate – if one feels obliged to a constitution according to Western, liberal cutting, if one upholds the human image of the free individual. But if one is based on constitutions that apply in states that, I say now, maintain its one-party system, then this leads me to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Florida, and I may present a quote from him to that of the governor of Florida: ‘The basic requirement for entry will be the Green Pass everywhere.’ You must be tested, cured or vaccinated. ‘In addition, the distance rules and the obligation to mask will be maintained, and there will also be group restrictions [...].’ This is what our new freedom looks like, the new normality that he has long announced: The human image is quite different, there is no longer a free individual. There is also no longer a healthy individual, the fellow human being is only seen as a potential infective flock without fundamental rights. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And you have to prove yourself free so that you can go on the road at all. All of this, of course, is only for our best in terms of health protection. And in order for everyone to be truly protected, of course, the Federal Government needs to know what we are doing, where we are, who we meet, and best of all what we think, and for this the green pass is the gateway – so do not forget the entry gate into freedom, but into dependence. Whoever now believes, it's not that interesting where he goes to the hairdresser and where he meets someone – error! A violent state is interested in everything! ==References====External links== Century, gold bars are for overpowered states or states that are on their way there; not to use this data against any citizen, but politicians can use it against those citizens they want it to against. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e4398	Member Smolle has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e4419	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A previous speaker used the word number juggles in connection with the pandemic. In view of a disease that has killed more than 3.1 million people around the world, through which every day people at the intensive care station are going around their lives, I can't understand that word in any way. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] What is the point of this proposal from the Health Committee today? – It is primarily about people we know that they are certainly or very likely to pose a low epidemiological risk, namely that people who have undergone the Covid-19 disease are treated as people who have been vaccinated and people who have been tested negatively. This is not a question of the privilege for individuals, but it is simply a matter of a matter of fact, a matter of fact, that these people, of which one knows that they are largely on the safe side, are no longer subject to certain restrictions which the pandemic has required in recent months. This is an essential step towards freedom and at the same time a step towards solidarity. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This draft law has included many events, for example, allowing for exceptions, such as for children and young people, special schemes or exceptions for persons who are not eligible for a test for mental or physical reasons. Even there, the legislator really thinks wide and strives to take all people with us in our society. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I come to the second point. The essential thing of this draft is to lay the foundations for these openings, which began from 19. May be ready to create. These are very wide openings: The schools are again transferred to a general presence and regular operation, sports, culture are opened, gastronomy, tourism are made accessible again, body-related services are continued. [[Abg. Belakovich: Why did you even lock the sport?]] These are very ambitious steps, and it is good that they are put. At the same time – and I come to the third point – we must bear in mind: Where do we currently stand in the development of this pandemic in Austria? – The numbers of new infections have been slow for a few weeks, but they have gone back. The reproductive factor is less than one. That's the good news. But we need to know that the seven-day incidence is two to three times as high as at the peak last spring. That means the thing is certainly not eaten yet, but there are also positive things. Essentially – it has already been addressed – is the vaccination. In the meantime 3.1 million doses of vaccination have been administered in Austria, well 26 percent of the population have already received at least one vaccination, almost 10 percent already full immunisation. There are days when 70,000 to 80,000 vaccines have already been administered, and we are testing very intensively; on some days up to 500,000 tests, an almost unimaginable value. Especially during vaccination, we have always been in the front group of EU countries for weeks, i.e. we are working very efficiently. At this point I would like to say a thank you, thank you very much to the countries that implement this, a thank you also to a group of people who have been in purgatory in such a way in the last few weeks – I mean the immunisation coordinators – and to all professional groups and all those who actively participate in this vaccination. A warm thank you! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] That means – fourth point –: We go into ambitious openings and we go responsibly into these openings. It is ambitious because we open a lot at the same time and wide. At the same time, of course, we all feel the need and know how important it is that we take this step. We have – which can further protect us – the increasing circulation, which now protects not only the risk groups and especially the risk groups from serious diseases, but also, as one now knows, helps in doing so, namely every single vaccinated person to inhibit the spread of the virus, and that is a good news. The broad test we will continue is also an important step. It will be particularly important – and here I come to the fifth point – that we hold together in this phase and act responsibly. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Our common goal is the comeback for Austria. If we comply with the strict, responsible framework conditions, if we do not recognize these openings as a signal in the private sector even now: Oh, it's over, now we can do everything as before!, but continue to behave reasonablely and with restraint, then we have a very, very great chance that we can control ourselves specifically and well in the summer. This is what we want, above all for our country and for our tourism. That's why I'm making an appeal again – an appeal I hope it won't be necessary any more often: Let's get together! The more solid we are, the more dynamic and sustainable the comeback for Austria becomes. Let's get it started!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e4486	The Federal Minister Mückstein has been reported to speak. Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e4507	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Advisors and See you at home! First of all, I would like to thank all of you for the possibility that we decided this special session of the National Council so quickly that there was a cross-party agreement here, because I think the issue is important, and it is important to send a common signal on all different access points. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The signal we all send out here means that we take seriously the biggest health crisis that has occurred in the Second Republic and that it is taken seriously together. I am also convinced, however, that this basic agreement we have on it is extremely important, because nothing is worse for the people than uncertainty, and nothing is worse than an uncertainty that holds one, to make personally important decisions. But please let me refer to another very worrying issue before! We don't have until May, it's not even half the year around. So far, early May, nine men have murdered nine women. Nine times a man has decided that a woman should not continue her life like this. Last Thursday a man shot his ex-girlfriend in the head. At the beginning of April, a woman died of severe burns after a month of hospital. The man poured and lit them with a flammable liquid. In February, a man first beat his wife to the hospital, and when she was released after a few days, he killed her. These are now only three examples, three women, who were all 20, 25, 30 years old, and when I think about it as a father and as a man, it makes me sad and angry. What makes me particularly angry is that here is often tried to interpret a relationship drama or a disappointed love and say: Maybe the woman was a bit guilty of that too! - That's incredible, please! I would also like to say quite clearly at this special meeting: If a man beats a woman when a man kills a woman, he's 100 percent guilty of it. He has the responsibility. There is no room for interpretation here and there are no grey zones here. [[Congratulation with Greens, ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] But back to today's special meeting. There is certainly also agreement here in the house that soon we all want to return to our old life. We are all thinking together about how we can lock Austria up again. We all long for it because we've been waiting a long time to meet our family again, to go back to sports, to travel, to go back to the hairdresser, to the cinema or to the inn. That is why we have drawn up a plan in the Federal Government, which is the best way to do this – which is particularly important to me as a doctor and health minister – with the greatest possible safety. I do not think I would reveal a secret here when I say that the negotiations were not a walk, but we have managed to achieve the greatest possible balance of interest between opening up and security, between the city and the country and also between the federal states. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] My main goal in the coming days and weeks is to still relieve intensive care stations. We need this safety net. That's the top goal. No one should die because there's no intensive bed for him. This is not just about corona patients who urgently need breathing equipment and intensive care. Each of us can also experience a car accident, a heart attack, or a heart disease. I would therefore like to ask all citizens: Please continue to comply with the protective measures! Reduce contacts, keep distance, wear FFP2 masks, so everyone and anyone can help achieve the common goal and avoid deaths. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Vaccines is the way back into our old life. Vaccination is the way back to take our friends back into the arms, go back to the inn, go to the cinema go to the fitness centre and travel. That's why I appeal to each individual and to every individual: If you have the opportunity, please let yourself be vaccinated! Take care of the first date of vaccination! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I also know that there is still not enough vaccine. I know that many are not going fast enough. I don't think the vaccinations are going fast enough either. But there are also good news: The vaccination campaign in Austria has taken off. Around a quarter of the impregnable adult population has got the first stipend; and we assume that we can offer at least half of the impregnable adult population in mid-May. We will start phase 3 in mid-May. We will then immunise many people under 65 who close gaps over 65 and also allow for occupational vaccination. With the combination of vaccines and tests, we will make appropriate progress in the fight against pandemics and therefore in foreseeable time, on 19. May, the well-known opening steps can take. Prerequisite for this – I would also like to say here – is that the number of new infections is falling significantly and that the situation on intensive care stations is sufficiently relaxed. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I now come to the point of why it is so important that we have met at this special meeting today. It is legally necessary to remove pandemic-related restrictions for persons with a low epidemiological risk. This must also apply in particular to vaccines. The possibility for this to be created by the new law, which is to be adopted today in the National Council. In a first step, vaccines should be freed from the test requirement in the future. The previous scientific findings on the protective effect of the approved vaccines make it possible to take this encouraging step. Of course, there are many detailed questions about this, such as: When will the vaccination apply? How long does it last? – We need differentiated answers to these questions, based on current knowledge and recommendations. That is to say, we are working out the framework conditions under this regulation. Of course, we have to give the vaccination time to work. Currently, the experts tell us that three weeks after the first stroke, after the first partial vaccination, a sufficient effect can be assumed. Most vaccines, however, still need a second partial vaccination. This results in a shorter or longer period of protection depending on the vaccine. In other words, we must ensure that as many people as possible can be vaccinated and that the three-klang vaccinated-tested-healing system has sufficient capacity for testing. I would like to stress once again: The opening steps, the way back can only be if everyone can participate here and above all participate. It is therefore important that we decide today not to make any more difference and give testers, genes and vaccines alike the opportunity to participate in public life within the framework of the planned opening steps. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We already had over two million people at the end of April who received the first partial vaccination. They must then, from 19th century onwards. May, don't let it test anymore because the vaccination protection is made. ==References====External links== May around where we will need enormous testing capacities for those who, for example, cannot be vaccinated or do not want to. You have to respect that too. We create free testing capacities by deciding that people who have been vaccinated at least three weeks ago do not have to be tested anymore. And, of course, this should also be an incentive for being vaccinated. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say quite clearly: We are doing the right thing today, and I would like to thank all of you for that. Finally, I would like to make an appeal to you, which you are now watching here, to the Austrians at home: If you have the opportunity, please take the first opportunity to immunize! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e4644	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e4665	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Federal Minister, today we are discussing the legal basis for the green pass, and what you are bringing in in the draft law here and what you have now addressed in your speech is unfortunately very little. The essential questions relating to the green passport, namely the data protection issues, have not been addressed by you now, nor is there anything to be read in the law on this. [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] It's not about how this should work with data storage; it's not about how it's guaranteed that such sensitive health data doesn't get anyone who shouldn't get it; it's not what data you can see as a controller at all. All these questions are not dealt with. As Mr Smolle said earlier in terms of a definition, I think, “this is what the legislator really thinks”, I have to say: The problem is, the legislator does not think in relation to these data protection issues at all, because what we are doing today is that you get a comprehensive regulatory authority, a comprehensive blank check, all of these things here. Mr Federal Minister, it is not up to you that I am skeptical, it is more about your predecessor, because in the last 15 months we have always noticed, if we have given decrees to the Minister of Health, that your predecessor has not moved within the framework of the legal permit, but has mostly been shot far beyond the target, and I think that is bad. I also consider the way in which we, as a Parliament, act there to be a fundamental concern for democracy policy, because what we have been doing for 15 months, is that we no longer decide on things at all. We provide a very generous framework and say: Please, dear Federal Government, take care of this! – I think this is a self-confident Parliament not particularly intelligent. [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] Nevertheless, Mr. Federal Minister – and Mr. Loacker has already mentioned it – you will receive a advance of confidence from us today. Mr Federal Minister, it is always true with confidence that it is exhausted by the use of it. You now have the advantage that this situation has not yet happened for you, because you are only in office for a short time. Accordingly – first – you get the advance of trust from us, and second: They get it because we are convinced that the green pass can be positive, that it can be the means for us to regain our fundamental freedoms, not only because it is urgently necessary after 15 months and we all long for it, but above all because it is constitutionally necessary that we give people back the fundamental freedoms accordingly. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] However, with this advance of confidence, Mr. Federal Minister, we also expect you to address all these concerns that we have already raised here, to the data protection experts who have been addressed by the Data Protection Council, to take very seriously that you involve civil society, in particular in the preparation of the system, to involve the relevant experts and to see that you are developing a system that makes it clear that the data is safe. You need to ensure a system where the level of data protection is so high that there is no danger that anyone, if he controls the green pass, will be able to read out what is somehow my health data. The only thing someone who has to be able to read this out is whether I can or not in the inn – that's all. In no case must any additional information be readable, and that is why you have to take care of yourself accordingly! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In order for you, Mr Federal Minister, to be able to take appropriate care of this, I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Federal Minister, use You're this confidence advance! Join the relevant experts and create a system in which all of our sensitive health data are safe! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[14:06]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e4807	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Prammer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e4832	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! The objective we are pursuing here and which we have been pursuing for 15 months now is to make constant adjustments. The aim is for as few people as possible to become so ill at the same time that they need medical treatment that we cannot afford at all. That is why we have been taking these measures for 15 months, and it has to be constantly adjusted because it is an extremely dynamic situation. Our Constitution allows us to limit fundamental and freedom rights as far as it is necessary to improve the protection of other rights, which are more difficult to weighty at the moment. But since it is not always the same, which rights can and must be restricted, we must constantly re-adjust them, and that is what we are doing again today. Today we are taking another fine-tuning vote, because we know more and have more resources to intervene and re-adjust. We still know that contacts between people enable the transmission of the virus between people who do not know whether they are contagious or whether they are protected. We also know that people who have been tested negatively are unlikely to be contagious. We also know that people who have antibodies are most likely unable to infect themselves, are unlikely to suffer severe disease and most likely cannot spread the virus. That means that contacts between these people must be possible, which must not be restricted in connection with this consideration. We're back here today because we're making that possible. We make it possible to fine-tune this change. First and foremost, it is not a question of affirming the right of individuals to go to the sports ground, to the hairdresser, to the cinema or to the inn. It is primarily about the fact that all those who operate these sports fields, hairdressing shops, innhouses and cinemas can open them up again, that they can pursue their profession again, that they can obtain income again and that society is again heading towards a normal economy, a normal one another's moving. It is therefore so important that those non-hazardous contacts that carry no or hardly any risk of infection are authorised. We can do this by testing people by issuing certificates for those who carry antibodies in them and are therefore not contagious, and we can do so by creating a way of how these people can prove and show them. Thus, we can open up as much as possible, so that we can return to a normal life as quickly as possible, and only in this way will we fulfil our obligation to keep this balance of interests between different protected, constitutionally guaranteed rights, to constantly review and to come to the side of as much freedom as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e4880	Mrs Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e4901	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! Yes, today it is so far, the power noise of this Austrian federal government knows no limits – it continues. What my predecessor at the end of the debate said about freedom: Yes, freedom, ladies and gentlemen, is indivisible to us. Freedom, fundamental rights, freedom should be enjoyed by everyone, and it must not be allowed to stand up for freedom. They're allowed to do it because otherwise it's no longer freedom, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What is happening here today is to divide the population: to the braves, to the good, to those who adapt themselves socially, to those who can be vaccinated, and to the evil ones who may not want to do so, because they critically question whether this vaccination makes sense at all, whether the cost-benefit accounting of this vaccination fits for a personal one at all, ladies and gentlemen. These are the evil ones who are excluded from freedom, they are excluded from social life. That's what you're doing here today with this green pass. They share the population in good and bad, as you have been doing for 15 months. For 15 months you split society, you continue to do it, and you make it cost it what it wants at the expense of health. Since today, Vienna is becoming unique in Europe! – Pregnant women, ladies and gentlemen, without knowing what long-term damage there is. All this you take in purchase, you're the health of the population totally no matter, main thing, you're going through your program. It is also evident, ladies and gentlemen, that you already get to this green pass with the first trick. With a partial vaccination, you'll get the green pass, ladies and gentlemen after 23 days. You don't have any protection at all, you can't say that at all. And something else you don't know, even if you have two partial vaccinations: You still don't know if you're actually infectious. We don't know. More and more cases of those who have been infected, who have been seriously ill and have also died, are becoming known. The media are full of these cases, however, that's enough for you, while on the other hand you go to genes, for example, and say that you don't know how long they are actually immune, but there are studies from Innsbruck that say they have at least one year antibodies, and after that there is still the T-cell immunity, [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Ladies and gentlemen. You don't even care about that! It's not about seeing if people are safe, no, it's about knocking the vaccination. That is the main goal for you, which is the subject for you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You go so far in your urge that you don't even stop in front of the children again, ladies and gentlemen. The Federal Chancellor takes his stand and explains: In autumn, we can then start immunizing those under the age of twelve. – Yes, in which world do we live, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! Our children are too bad to keep up as an experimental rabbit! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Firewinner.]] That is not at all questionable! What does it mean when parents defend themselves? Should the children no longer be allowed to ride on school skiing courses or on the country school week? Can they even go to school? Do they have to go through a corona test every day? Are they stigmatized in classes because they are not vaccinated, ladies and gentlemen? You take the risks in purchase, cost it what it wants. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] I would like to say to you: As you will still feel our resistance, you will feel it very massively, because our children are too sorry for your experiments, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Weratschnig and Mr Schellhorn.]] Don't get so excited! Do it if you believe, but you can be assured that most of the Austrians do not like these vaccinations. Every day people overwhelm us with complaints, they are forced by the employee, by the employer, by the colleagues, they have to be vaccinated, they do not make it voluntary. [[Green call for tender]] These are facts! They make themselves up and say: Oh, the Austrians are so happy to join you! – No, don’t do it, and you have to take note of it. I'll tell you: Don't get involved with our children! You'll still feel the resistance, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The health of people in our country is indivisible, and they will not destroy you, ladies and gentlemen, with a vaccination whose effect we do not know, whose long-term consequences we do not know, which cannot protect us from infection and which, above all, does not protect the second, third and fourth. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn]] This vaccination never leads to herding union. Stop posing an X for a U to the people!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e5035	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e5056	Mr President Sobotka, I am sorry to take you personally into account: This is precisely what comes out when, in public news interviews, one philosophys whether or not we need a duty of truth in Parliament. That's, I think, the drama we're all standing in front of. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is the drama we're all standing in front of. While quite a lot of people in Austria are really dirty, we have a record unemployment, entrepreneurs are fighting for their existence, many, many people have lost their families – which Sebastian says in short: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits]] It's not a world downfall! – and many people do not know how things continue in Austria and are desperate, one still has to worry that one no longer knows whether what is being discussed in the House is true at all. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] In the meantime, we have a polarization in Austria, which uses two sides in a massive way, and this is unfortunately a bit bad in the midst of a crisis: On the one hand, we have the course of Herbert Kickl, who criticizes a lot – which is not at all true in Austria, which does not fit and does not work at all – often actually, but in a way then turns towards conspiracy theories, which does not bring us a millimeter to what we can say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] It's a drama, what the government has pumped all of it, you don't have to invent something more. On the other hand, we have someone who doesn't feel any more, Sebastian Kurz, who believes he's the superstar, the savior, the great crisis manager, and who, in truth, didn't do anything in this crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Just because we're talking about it today and Elli Köstinger is talking about it: He promises us great, until 30. April all people in Austria will be vaccinated for over 65 years – did not vote! By the end of April we have a green pass – we did not vote! All he's attacking is marketing blabe. Compared to what Sebastian Kurz looks like every day, Baron Münchhausen is a truth fanatic. You can't act like that in a crisis! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] What are we talking about today? – We say that people who have already been vaccinated need not be on the test road in the future, but are treated as well as tested people and healed people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] That's the only thing we're talking about today. What we are not talking about is a green pass, no matter how it is designed, because there is nothing there – although Köstinger and Kurz promised it – to this day. You really wonder what you're really doing all day. Minister Edtstadler was on the road in the world – where was she, Spain or Portugal? – and has given help there at the green pass, she knows herself very well. The Federal Minister has been criticized by a certain Magnus Brunner – since you will also have the first time that he is part of the government – he has complained about the green pass. And to this day, there's not even anything about how this green pass looks. Nothing is available, but it is already a big discussion about it, and Sebastian Kurz talks about this green pass. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] The second thing that really upsets me is the story that comes from the ÖVP: Comeback for Austria! – Yes, do you really believe that these low marketing flossels bring anything to any person in Austria? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We failed in crisis management. Many, many people who work in hospitals and nursing homes have quite, very difficult times behind them because you have abandoned them because this stupid marketing blabla was always more important than proper crisis management. That's why we're philosophizing about the green pass today, although there's nothing wrong with the back and front. Sebastian Kurz then turns himself down and says: The green pass, these are the notes each of us gets when it's tested, or the ID; that's the first phase of the green pass. – Yes, is this a comedian or is that the Federal Chancellor? Work properly and present the green pass! None of us know him. If there's a good solution, we'll be there. We're not there with some marketing bubble or some turquoise punch. That's why: Do your work, I really ask! [[Abg. Kickl: Why do you agree?]] Do not just talk, but at last do what you promise, and do a successful crisis management! – So, Herbert Kickl is still up to completion. [[Abg. Kickl: But why do you agree?]] [[Abg. Zarits: All the time...!]] [[Abg. Kickl:... then you agree!]] It doesn't help that you're just yelling all the time, because you just don't bring anything, we've had that often enough. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Once you're consistent!]] We can discuss for hours the fact that the government is incapable and does not continue in many areas, but only to say: [[Abg. Kickl: Then don't agree!]] Etch, bäsch, the government is incapable!, does not bring anyone on in Austria either. Many, many people want a job, want the health system to work. We have to get out of the crisis! All the while saying that the government is not able to manage that, nothing helps. You have to help them, they need support wheels. You have to get the harerln out of the situation somehow. It's just to cheat, Herbert Kickl, that alone isn't a solution either.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e5276	The Federal Minister Mückstein has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e5298	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The term green pass has often fallen. I would like to start with the Green Certificate: It was only 14 days ago that the EU created the technical conditions for all EU countries to issue this Green Certificate, which will enable them to move freely in the EU, so to speak, with the proven, vaccinated or healed – mainly about travel. This is the EU's goal. As a Union country, we are now gradually implementing this, i.e. creating the technical conditions for it and seeing that we are so far as we can register at the beginning of June. [[Abg. Worm: Philip, listen!]] The EU itself will not be able to connect the countries until the beginning of July. That is, Portugal, Austria or Germany sign up, and then it is distributed centrally to the other countries. We also know that in Austria, for example, we can say that we do not accept it if a country uses a vaccine not authorised by the EMA – a Chinese or a different one, quite meats where it comes from. That's clear. So it is the EU's common goal to have this Green Certificate by the beginning of July. What we are doing in Austria now is preparing for it. Whether you call the green pass or not is a semantic question for me. We enable aspects of this Green Certificate from 19. May, and that's why we're here today. We say that vaccines and genes need not be tested anymore – that is what the experts tell us. There are serious concerns about the technical implementation – I do not want to press for data protection at all – and we need to see that the data protection experts bring together a solution by the beginning of June to which they say that is okay. I don't press there at all. That's important, it's about health data. It is important where these health data are located. It is important that the Elga data networked with other health data are safely networked, not a question, and that will also take time – I say here too. It is important that the people, the Austrians, know that they are on the 19th century. Of course, May will not have a QR code, which is not technically possible at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] 17 percent of the population don't have a smartphone at all; they won't have a QR code on the smartphone, but they'll just print it out – provided that the data protection is verified. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] At the beginning, there will be many different possibilities of proof. We are collecting who can exhibit this. This is communicated shortly before the 19th. But I believe that the essential thing is – whether it is called a green pass or a green certificate – that if we are vaccinated or when we are healed, we no longer need to test.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e5346	MEP Künsberg Sarre has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e5368	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. Minister! High house! Mr Minister, your predecessor has outsourced the test strategy at the schools de facto to the Minister of Education and has not actually felt insanely responsible for children and young people. I hope that you feel more drawn and that you will work closely with the Minister for Education in the future. For children and young people it is very, very much: It is mainly about the openness and openness of schools, not in shift operation, but in full operation. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Call at the FPÖ:... schools open!]] I therefore have three questions to ask you about preparing for a safe and good school operation in autumn, because I have heard very little about this. – First of all: The vaccination rate for the pedagogues is still extendable and to be increased. What to do Is it aimed at eliminating obvious reservations in this professional group, as well as among the elementary pedagogists? What to do You there? Secondly, How does your vaccination strategy look for the boys? What do you do to ensure that as many pupils as possible, where vaccination would be possible at age, really go to vaccination? Thirdly, The vaccination for the 16-year-olds is de facto in the starting holes. What to do You there? What logistic preparations to make You for the summer when the vaccination is already possible? How does it work and go? With regard to autumn: Will the school doctors and school doctors finally be connected to Elga to ensure a smooth course? Do you think, for example, that it could be an incentive for vaccinated pedagogues or pupils to be free of the masquerade’s obligation to teach in this group that remains the same? Mr Minister, you were not yet in your function last autumn, but you will probably have noticed that the Federal Government has been quite asleep last summer. It's not supposed to happen again. To that end, it would be important to launch early measures so that everyone knows how this will happen, what measures are possible in addition to vaccination and testing, of course, in schools, in kindergartens, from a health perspective. There has so far been much too little from the Ministry of Health. On the current occasion, very briefly, violence against women: I believe that no matter whom violence is directed, it is especially important to start as early as possible. You've announced a campaign. I very much hope that you will also take into account kindergartens and schools because: The earlier children have to deal with violence prevention, the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e5407	Member of the Upper Nosterer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e5429	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! If the situation in which we are all together in the world through this pandemic is not so serious, then we could actually just laugh at various speeches that have come into this serious situation here today. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: About your mask handling by the way too!]] However, I am still pleased that today the initiative of our Federal Government, at the head of our Federal Minister of Health, Köstinger and the Minister of Health, was presented on the subject of green passport. In terms of content, Univ.-Prof. Dr. Smolle has already said everything. I don't want to go into that. I just want to say something about what this looks like for the tourism industry. My colleague will talk about the leisure industry afterwards. There is no alternative to the green pass, to what you, Mrs. Federal Minister, have put on the table with our chancellor and vice chancellor and with the government team if we want to lock up. There is only one initiative! Otherwise, we will stay until the end of June. Do you know how the tourism industry is? – I really trust to say that 90 percent here have no idea. My family and all the tourists, 90,000 businesses in Austria, live on it. Over nine months, tourism is still, the farms are closed, and we are finally getting a scheme by which we can lock up God's thanks early enough – with certain regulations – so that we can see that with the support of the green pass we get over the summer properly for the vaccinated, tested and healed. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I am looking at a certain group sitting right in front of me talking about this two-class society: I know many, many of us and also of you here, dear colleagues who have traveled to far countries. I haven't heard any excitement yet that he couldn't go there because he didn't want to be given some vaccination. [[Abg. Kickl: And they were all allowed to go?]] That's all okay, but if you see that in your own house there is order and that you protect the tourism industry and its employees, then it's not okay because politics is. Politics has nothing to look for in this crisis, but it denies it! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Why do you talk without a mask?]] This pass is so important for us tourism companies so that it is simple and simple, and I tell you how it was last year, in autumn, than down on the Adriatic, in Croatia and so on, the numbers have been shot up while they were still in order with us. The hoteliers in Carinthia have considered whether they will even take someone when he comes up from below to avoid being infected. It's about protecting our employees! [[Abg. Amesbauer: That's a fool!]] My speaking time is not too long. I'm telling you what we tourists are most afraid of. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] Should I tell you what? – This government with our chancellor and vice chancellor and their team has brought us through this pandemic! [[Cheerfulness of Mr Belakovich and Mr Wurm.]] Reads the German newspapers – they would be happy if they had such a government – the Italian newspapers, asks the South Tyroleans! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] They would be all ten fingers if they had such a government as we could help the economy and the labour market. We are an example! [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Amesbauer and Kickl.]] I am also telling you as an innkeeper, not only as a Member of Parliament, what we are most afraid of: from the coronalists, from such people as you, Mr Kickl, and from you, Mrs Belakovich! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I'm telling you very honestly: Do you know what you're afraid of? ==References====External links== May, people will be standing at the door, some coronalists. They're attacking the staff in tourism because they don't want to be in, ammunitioned by you! [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, yes!]] Shame on that! If you were to live by tourism, it would be different – I say so too!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e5587	Member of the Worm has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e5608	Mr President. Minister! Minister! High house! Fathers. It is already a strong piece when the ÖVP and the Greens come here today and titulate this law more or less than step into the normality or recovery of freedom. I think that none of the ladies and gentlemen have read it here or received it intellectually, understood it. That, which is being voted on today, is actually one of the worst projects of this government in the last 15 months – I would say – and we as Members should be very clear today. I would also like to differentiate between Members. Obviously, everyone today, except for us, agrees to this idea of government, and with this you, as a Member of Parliament, have actually done a task of your own, because if you have read the law, you state: They give this government and the Minister a free letter that goes far, far beyond everything so far. That's the one story you have to make up for yourself, personally with your conscience. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second level are the people outside, the population. Here I have, quite honestly, of course, understanding for the people that, in a cry for help, they are calling for this green pass. They have now vaccinated the people 15 months of fear of death and panic, the people are really softly cooked and have their nose full. They just have enough to suffer from this story and want to get out somehow. That is why I understand people if they would like to use this emotionally for themselves. Unfortunately, you have achieved God's goal – what you obviously wanted; also with the help of a lot of press and media – and I find it very dramatic what is happening there. That is why I would like to explain briefly the green passport we are discussing today, even if many do not like to speak up. The Green Pass, which you and the government are now doing, Minister, is not about whether you can travel abroad. What you're quoting today is whether you're allowed to drink a small beer in Innsbruck or a melange in Vienna in the city center. (Interruption of the Abg. Obernosterer. ) That's what you're going to do with it. This law is firm – I believe many have not understood it. The green pass is more or less the grace of the government that as an Austrian citizen, taxpayers can move freely in this country and drink a coffee somewhere. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you want to talk about it, too: This green pass is basically nothing but a state, police leadership witness, and everyone here, except the liberals, rejoice and lift your hand or stand up. No one can really explain that to me. I remember very well, almost two years ago, a report on China on television – you may have seen it too. There are all this QR code on the phone, green and red, there are these points you can collect, and if you are a good Chinese, a good Chinese, then you can get more. That's exactly what this is all about, and everybody is looking at – almost everyone, we've found a few artists who have come out of the reserve and criticise it. But I say it again: In the depths, what is happening today is not at all compatible with a democracy, with a free society, and that is not possible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am now like this – I am thank God healthy, I am also a rather tough dog, and I am going to somehow push it through for myself, I can do it for myself – that people will lead me outside. The government has done so much damage, not only economically by destroying existences, but also by causing real serious psychological damage to the people. It may take years, decades for people to overcrowd it. I can only say again at the end of the day: What is happening today is actually the declaration of bankruptcy of Austrian democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e5683	Mrs Neßler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e5705	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I do not want to comment on my previous speaker or on the FPÖ for a long time, because it is so absurd that I am too sorry for this and I do not think it is worth it any more. [[Abg. Worm: Because?]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Worm: Can you read, Barbara?]] Six months ago, the gastronomy had to close again, six hard months in which the tourism companies, the gastronomy, the art and cultural workers of their work could not and did not know how to proceed. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Why? What's her condition?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] Mr Obernosterer has already asked how tourism is going, and not only is it about existence or the financial aspect – I think we have put in place many good measures – but it is also about not being funny to sit at home without employment. We have noticed in the crisis what it means when an important industry, like tourism, stops: what it means for GDP, what it means for the labour market – in Tyrol, for example, every third job depends on tourism – what it means for the indirect value chain, from the farmer in the village to the mountain leader, but also what it means for our social life. [[Abg. Worm: GDP is only known to you from the hearsay!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: And you only realized that after 15 months!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] That is why, I think, it was not only hard for tourism and gastronomy for six months and longer, but also for us, not only because of the good coffee or the good food we lack, but because we lack places where you come together, where you meet people, where you meet people; there is no family food in the inn, the meeting in the café or sitting together in shanigärten. [[Abg. Stefan: All this now only with a green pass! Only people with a green pass will be able to meet! Nice!]] I think we all know in here how much we lack, and therefore the restaurants, the bars, the gastronomy are not just locals in the sense, but they are more: They are employers, employers, social areas, they are regional infrastructure. [[Abg. Amesbauer: That's all a joke!]] [[Abg. Stefan: The Tyrolean Greens can meet like that!]] Not only the gastronomy, but, I think, especially art and culture, we have missed insanely, not only because of the economic aspect. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] On the way here I have read a poster of cultural artists, with the inscription: ‘Without [...] we’ll be silent’. I think we'll be glad when this silence is over and finally events can take place again. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Stefan: But only for those with a green pass! For certain people only!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: But only for vaccines, or!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] I know that planning security is incredibly difficult at this difficult time. We've seen it in the past, when the pandemic has always made a mistake with us. But we have now massively increased our test capacities, and with the vaccination, an absolute game changer takes effect. [[Abg. Belakovich: Where is the game changer? When's he coming?]] That is why we want to focus in May on openings, because tourism, gastronomy in terms of preparation and also with regard to employees. [[Abg. Stefan: They would have needed that a few times!]] I have to say, though, that we're still riding with a hand brake. The pandemic does not end on May 19, and that is why I think we all have to deal with it responsibly when it comes to the opening steps. Our way out of the crisis is to comply with safety concepts that still comply with, test and vaccinate, vaccination, vaccination. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] [[Abg. Belakovich:... international pharmaceutical companies...!]] But what I do not want to mention is – we have heard something from all the areas that are to be opened today – that there is still a part of tourism that is not opened, which is still in the waiting loop, and that is the night gastronomy. [[Abg. Belakovich:... privatize...!]] This is especially the club scene. That was the first area that was closed, and it will also be the last one that will open, and I think it is important to ensure this industry financially well so that it can still exist when it can lock up again. How important the night gastronomy is, I don't have to emphasize it here, I think. I hope we've all experienced nights that we like to remember today. Finally, something else: I would also like to take the opportunity here at the speaker's desk to talk about the latest femicide, because I do not think we can say enough about that. Yes, in Austria we have a problem with male violence, and no, there is no justification – no justification! – when men do violence to women. [[Congratulation with Greens, ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Abg. Bitch.]] I would also like to thank our women's spokesperson, our clubwoman Sigi, our ministers for fighting for it, and I hope we all fight for something to change until this country is safe for all women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e5972	Member of the European Parliament, Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e5993	My colleague, Mr Kucher, has previously shown something very impressive, which, I believe, has so far been too short about this debate, namely that it is still an airlock in the whole debate, because there is still very little to nothing. This is something that we have actually seen in all the Federal Government's digitization projects over the past few months. When we look at what happened, we see that the only thing that has always been in the foreground was a PR event, usually a big press conference spitting with ads. There was a lot of money pumped in, but in the end nothing was actually there. I should like to remind you of some of the projects that have started in a similar way and then deal with the projects that have never taken place, even though they were important to curb this pandemic. I remember Austria's department store. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I think it's a concept all over Austria. In the disease, Harald Mahrer, President of the President, and Mrs Schramböck, who stood up and said: We have a solution for the pandemic, and this is the department store Austria. All companies will be booming, Amazon has no chance in the Austrian market, and we have solved all the problems. – The problem was, it became a million tomb because it was an island solution, not designed from the beginning and simply thought through badly. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Prince.]] I recall the great vaccination platform that we have made in all the federal states. It is nice and good that we have vaccination platforms on which you can log in digitally, but it has been forgotten about accessibility, it has been forgotten to offer alternatives. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] Each federal state has done it for itself, so that the Austrian no longer knows which platform to use, where he can actually log in and how the dates come about – i.e., island solutions. We've seen it on the test platform. This was absolutely announced by the Federal Chancellor at a press conference, and then what was it? – Chaos in the ministry, because it had to go quickly – the Federal Chancellor wanted to be back at the front with his announcement – and then the data was hacked. On the first day there was a data leak, and some data, namely health data, which is particularly valuable, were played out again. You can see in all these projects – unfortunately, time is passing so fast that I can't even go into the other parts of the government in this pandemic – that the government can't do one thing, and that's digitization, that's what we see again and again. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] As I have referred to data protection, I would like to put another motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Why is that so important? – Just briefly: Because that's exactly the problem when you present an unthinked solution! This is the third attempt of the Ministry of Health to present us with something like this, and there is still nothing there. It is precisely this security for the data that we need a common European solution in all these models, best at European level, so that the Federal Government does not have its fingers at stake, because this federal government cannot do digitization or pandemic control. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[14:46]] The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e6143	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e6167	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear to us that, from this point of view, vaccination is probably the most sustainable means of curbing this pandemic. Our chairman stressed that we must work together to get this pandemic under control. And what does the Chancellor of the Federal Republic do? – As always, the Federal Chancellor presents himself as well staged and media-active in front of the cameras and quaint. The staging is the only thing you notice. He's in front of me with: Austria is the first country with the green pass! – Ladies and gentlemen, that is not true! This is an announcement without a serious basis, and none of it is the case. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Yes, an equality of the vaccinated with proven and genes, that's all – but not a green pass far and wide. Just as an announcement as we know it is: Austria is so great on the way to vaccination! - No, that's not true! If Austria had exhausted the full vaccination quota, we would now have had a million more vaccinated Austrians! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You all know that Parliament is concerned with the procurement of vaccines, in particular the small committee of inquiry, and it is also important that this be done. Why are we doing that? – So that mistakes cannot be repeated so that you can learn from made mistakes as well. However, this requires government politicians who are willing to learn from mistakes and who, above all, tell Parliament about the truth. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me briefly paint a picture: The Federal Chancellor was also a guest in the small committee of inquiry. Before him we asked the Minister of Finance – you know, the financial cover of 200 million euros; that is why we had too little vaccine right at the beginning – and the Chancellor negates this financial cover as well as the Minister of Finance. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Pfurtscheller and Mr Höfinger.]] – Colleagues, keep your peace and quiet! You know exactly that you have no reason to call in. [[Abg. Hoefinger: The only one excited, you are!]] The files prove it: There has been this cap of 200 million euros, and the vaccine coordinator, who is no longer in his function, because Mr Chancellor has not liked it so much, has of course not been able to buy more than for these 200 million euros, and that was unfortunately too little. [[Abg. Hoefinger: You don't believe that yourself!]] [[Abg. Hoefinger: A beautiful fairy tale!]] Yeah, that's exactly what the Federal Chancellor said: Fairy tales, fantasy. Dear colleague of the ÖVP, nine times it was in the Council of Ministers, since November there have been regular Jours fixes, several times weekly with the head of the Federal Chancellor's cabinet. What was it about? Precisely about the vaccine situation and the lack of procurement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then to claim that he as chancellor did not know how the vaccine procurement looks like that, is simply not comprehensible and cannot match the truth. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Or the chief of the cabinet doesn't inform his chancellor – that can be too. Where's performance? The Federal Chancellor claims that he had experienced this much too late at EU level, he had only experienced it in March. – Yes, please, ladies and gentlemen, where was the Federal Chancellor at the beginning of January? He was at the table with the 26 other heads of government. This is precisely what has been discussed: that if countries do not access the full quotas, others can consume them. He says: I didn't know. – Either it was not clear to him what was decided and discussed there, or he deliberately did not tell the truth. This may also lead us to learn from mistakes and that government politicians in particular no longer make mistakes. What are the mistakes I mean? – That a Federal Chancellor no longer makes the mistake of not being responsible for removing a vaccine coordinator from his function and calling it scandalous that he has not reportedly informed him. That's getting rid of responsibility, that's not standing up to its own government responsibility, and no one in Austria has deserved it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I hold and demand – it's bad enough that we have to talk about this and ask for it at all –: A Federal Chancellor who does not tell the truth in front of a parliamentary control committee is not supposed to have this function at all. Parliament and therefore the electorate have the full right to be informed of the truth and not to be confronted with the untruth. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e6273	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. – The word stands with you, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e6295	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Thank you very much – the words commonness and cohesion have often fallen and have been strongly emphasized. That's true, of course. We will only deal with this pandemic together, but together – as with all the great challenges of our time – of course not nationally, but internationally, and for us Austrians this is of course also very strong at European level. That's why, of course, it was a little ridiculous to say: We're the fastest again! – Hello, we’re an export country, we’re a tourist country – it doesn’t make any sense to be the fastest to be the best if it’s not right anyway, but it only makes sense if we reach something together in Europe. Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff has already explained well: With digitization they do not take us seriously anymore, after all they have experienced at the department store Austria. So, Federal Minister, you are well advised if you find solutions together with colleagues in Europe. That's what we have the most. The next point that matters to me is: Together – that means, of course, worldwide. I am very glad that the European Union is now helping India as part of its EU disaster protection mechanism, because we have seen this too: Absorbed Of the human tragedies we see when 400 000 people are infected there every day when so many people die there every day, we also see that on this small earth, which we all have more, of course, the pandemics of this kind spread so quickly. So we help, of course, because we find that human right, but we also help because it is factually correct and because it is necessary. I'm thinking, too. It's nice when we say, We pay 2 million euros and send a few devices there!, but it would be more sensible if we had also taken part in a European solution because it is simply necessary. Apart from: Supporting democracy in Asia alongside China is also important in all the weaknesses of Indian democracy. Side by side: I am glad that this right-wing populist has made huge election events and now lost the elections – perhaps he has learned from them. Finally, I would like to say something: Today is also the international press freedom day. This is a great concern to me, and it is naturally related to the subject. Why? – Because also media who do not work decently lose confidence. There is an investigation by the Vienna Center for Electoral Research. Thus, the government has lost confidence, unfortunately Parliament – and it should not always be said that Parliament does not explain well if we do good work – but also the ORF has lost. That's why, dear government: Let the media work in peace! Of course, what is happening there – how pressure is being exerted on the media – is completely harmful. My appeal, just to the Greens: In your DNA, you don't have to put pressure on the media, so please don't allow genetic manipulations, it won't help you! I brought the latest book about Hugo Portisch. [[Keeping the book “So I Saw My Life ” Up]] Unfortunately, he left us, but there is a little book – a Portuguese for beginners, if you like – in which there are a lot of truths. I can only recommend that to everyone. In an interview he once gave me, he said: The most important thing is the dignity of man. It is also important not to frighten people, but to inform people. – I wanted to say that to the international press freedom day. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e6343	The rapporteur was Mr Großbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e6364	Art and culture open on 19 October. May. Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I've been very, very long looking forward to saying this sentence from this point on, and now it's finally that far: ==References== May open art and culture – today already the museums, also in Vienna and Lower Austria, on 19 May. But then, May, quite wide art and culture. Today, we create the framework conditions for this, namely, proven, healed and vaccinated, so that they have access to art and culture, but of course not only to it, but also to the gastronomy, to the hotel industry, to tourism in general. These areas are all very, very closely related, especially in Austria. Art and culture open on 19 October. May, and with that, tens of thousands of people can re-exercise their profession, which they could only exercise in a digital way or with interruptions. Art and culture are also employers, economic motors and tourism factors, especially in Austria. Art and culture open on 19 October. May, and many institutions have already announced their programmes and started selling tickets. The Bregenzer Festival will be playing again in the summer, already at the end of May the Salzburg Pentecost festival, and also the Staatsoper has its plan from 19. ==References== [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] The Vienna State Opera is known in Vienna. However, from Vienna we do not yet know what it looks like with the opening steps. When can the State Opera open in Vienna? When can the concert hall open? When can the Porgy & Bess open? When can the theatre open up to the youth? We only have more than 16 days and we urgently need answers. These people needed urgent answers to plan. That is why my great request to the mayor of Vienna and to the SPÖ Vienna is to express themselves soon, because you have always called for planning security. Now we are finally so far that we can proceed with tests and vaccinations – please answer the culture! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and Deputies Disoski and Lukas Hammer.]] But today my great plea is a group that is still waiting for an answer: My plea goes to the amateurs. Amateur is a French word from the 17th century. The Latin word amar – love – is derived from the Latin word amator – the lover. ==References== The meaning of the century is that it is someone who does not exercise it for professional purposes, but with great passion and mostly with very, very great expertise. All these amateur theatres, choirs, orchestras, strip orchestras, wind music orchestras belong to our cultural country and to our social life. In addition, there are semiprofessional choirs like the Vienna Sing Academy, which work with professionals, but are amateurs themselves. In a year's pandemic, a lot of research has also happened at various universities around the world, namely, the aerosols that you were afraid of a year ago, and which you did not know whether they were dangerous when they came out of the wind instruments or were kicked out of the singing. Charité Berlin has researched with the Berlin Philharmonics, the Bavarian Radio Orchestra has researched, the Med-Uni Wien researched with the Vienna Philharmonics and the University of Oxford has researched very strongly for singing. In short: Sound comes from a wind instrument. One must not be irritated by the sound conductors, there comes only very little air in there, and there is a standing air column in motion. So that's a physical process, and of course you only want to use it if you've been tested yourself. The singing can be compared to speaking, according to the latest research from Oxford. I am pleased that singing at school is possible again. The choiring in the open is also possible in Switzerland again. The pandemic has shown a lot, a lot of research has been done. The pandemic has also shown how fragile mental health is. I am pleased that sports and culture are also possible in the extra-school youth work again. However, mental health is of course important for people of all ages, and therefore it is also so important that amateurs can practice art and culture again from theatre to orchestras, of course under the strictest test and safety conditions. I know there are still talks, the regulation is not yet finished, and I ask you, Minister of State, to support you in this area so that art and culture will be on 19 May. May be open in all areas and also in Vienna. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Finally, I would like to take a very brief look at the ninth women's murder this year in Austria. Violence often begins very early, unnoticed, by the way, in the supposed Little ones. It's being played down, it's bagatellized: It was a slipper, it was jealousy. In reality, it is about the notions of possession and power, about the role we have in this country. If we still had the situation until the 1970s that women had to ask their husbands for permission to go to work, we do not need to wonder that they are still existing, because that is not so long ago. I read an extremely moving interview with Deborah Feldman in the press on the weekend, which the book “Unorthodox” wrote. There was also a Netflix series. It is in a different context, but it is also about a toxic environment to which she could escape thanks to God. She said she hates it when she is always asked why she was so brave. She says so many women are courageous. She made it stop and she could make it public, but so many courageous women do not manage it and are murdered. Thank you, Minister Mückstein, and also Clubobfrau Sigrid Maurer, for having found such clear words. Murder is murder, there's nothing to beautify and not to apologize for. Violence is violence. There is now also a violent summit in the Ministry of the Interior with Minister of the Interior Nehammer, Minister of Women Raab and Minister of Justice Alma Zadić. Thank you, Minister Mückstein, for accepting this. Violence has no place in this country!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e6449	The next item is Mrs Elisabeth Götze. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e6470	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators! I speak once from the east of Austria: four and a half weeks of hard lockdown, and he paid off. From today the shops are open again and – very important – also cultural establishments such as museums; close-to-body services are possible again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] The Albertina, which lies on the way here, has been open since today. I'm really happy about that. By the way, books and zoo are also open again. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Today, however, we are talking about the 19th century. May, because there are many more openings: Gastronomy, tourism and once again art and culture. Even now you can book for theatre, for opera, even the cinema, which, I think, has not yet been mentioned – I am very pleased – will be open again, of course, with appropriate security concepts. That means we can be sure there, feel safe. The Vorarlberg model region has also shown: The danger was not in the businesses, but in private clusters. That is, if we adhere to these security concepts when we wear masks and keep distances, we are sure. On the one hand, it is a great relief for us as customers that we can go back to the museum, to a theatre or to the cinema, but also a great relief for the companies that can finally lock up, which can offer their services again – that is, their lives – and also for the staff who can finally come back from the short work. Even if public support works well, the entrepreneurs want to work again at last, and I would like to say at this point: It is important that we continue to support them. If we hear now, in the theater, in the opera there is about half an occupation, because distances are necessary, then of course we will still need support until there is a full opening again. There is anticipation of these openings, they were called a comeback. But I would like to look at it a little different and say: Let's also keep a little inward and consider: Do we want to go back there or do we have to change something? – We have often listened to our problems from Corona as a burning glass, and we have to deal with them now. We have to set the course for the future. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to address three issues. The first are supply chains and globalisation. Supply chains span the world, and you have seen what happens when the Suez Canal is locked: empty shelves across Europe, companies, car companies that, although there is demand, cannot currently produce as they want. Something went wrong, because something like that can happen again at any time. Conclusion: We need to get bigger, we need more regional providers in Europe, providers also distributed around the world. It is an opportunity for us to increase production of certain products even in Austria. I am talking in particular about pharmaceutical products, i.e. medicines, but also microchips – we are very good here. Of course, there are also political reasons why these supply problems exist. I call the steel industry and Russia. An example I find very scratched: There are no containers, among other things. So this is another problem for this supply chain problem, but the only two container manufacturers are – guess! – in China, so this problem will not be solved so easily either. [[Abg. Kickl: A few landlords we have there too!]] The conclusion is: We need more regional providers. We need to make ourselves more independent and thus create jobs in Europe again. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The cost argument is a bit questionable in this context, because at present the deliveries on the container ships cost the tenfold. We'll see what that does with the prices. At the same time, however, we need to see that local businesses can be even more competitive and that requires fair competition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] I am now talking in particular about the global giants who deliver digital products, such as Amazon, which even enters the food supply with Amazon Fresh. What it takes to do is first digitisation – we support companies – and second, fair tax competition. He's in discussion, we can't solve this alone as Austria, that's clear. However, it must go in this direction, for example with regard to corporate taxes and also with regard to CO2 taxes, because competition is not quite fair at present. A topic is the working conditions we address with the supply chain law within the EU. I promise you a lot of that. Perhaps we should discuss the working conditions in Austria again on the occasion. In the system-related professions, women are accused, but now something has to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e6537	Next speaker: Mr Rudolf Silvan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e6561	Madam President. High house! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen at home! I was very impressed by Mr Obernosterer's speech. He complained that the gastronomy and tourism companies had been for so long – that's true, it's really been a long time – but at the same time he said that we have the best federal government in all of Europe. It somehow doesn't fit in. – You don’t need to come here and complain, but you just need that to your Federal Chancellor. We all know what Sebastian did recently last summer – it was not much to hold except 218 press conferences. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we had been test-world champions in September, we would have saved ourselves a lot to this day. But now to something positive, maybe positive: The government parties came to us and wanted to negotiate with us a change to the Covid-19 Act, which, of course, we did. This novel is about the likeness of vaccinated people, healed people and tested people, because it is not to be seen that someone who has received a vaccination or someone who is healed should continue to be tested. With regard to the change in occupational group testing – unfortunately, the Federal Minister is not here – which is geared to the risk of mutual infection, I am looking for the government groups to involve the social partners in this area, because it is really a practical solution and not a very complicated solution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another improvement – as the Social Democratic manuscript is also noted – is that employers must allow testing for workers and that the number of free room tests for insured persons, as we have long called for, is increased from five to ten per month. For the spectators at home a clarification: Today it's not about the green pass. Today it is only about the equality of vaccinated, healed and tested persons. There is no single regulation in today's application that says something about the design of a green pass, even if Sebastian has been dreaming for weeks. I am very grateful that today, in the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Federal Minister has outlined the way to a green passport, a Europe-wide green passport, as there are many data protection issues to be resolved. It is essential for us that the green passport is uniform across the EU and is valid across the EU, because what makes sense if a country is prettiered and the green pass is not recognised in other countries? It is not about who is the first to introduce the green pass, it is about protecting the data of people, that this green pass is also practical for people who, for example, do not have a smartphone, and that the movements of people – on it we place very, very high value – cannot be tracked, as thought at the corona app. For this reason, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[15:14]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e6722	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Christoph Zarits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e6750	Madam President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Why are we here today? – We are here today to create legal framework conditions around 19th. ==References====External links== May finally lock up. And we are here today to also create the legal basis for the green pass. [[Abg. Matznetter: No, no!]] We are here today, too, because we are more in the pandemic fight than other countries. And why is that so? – Because we have made correct decisions in recent months and because most of the population has also adhered to the measures. Our decisions, which we have made in recent weeks and months, were certainly not always easy and have certainly required people very, very much. We have always been in a field of tension: on the one hand, health prevention, on the other hand, of course, the understandable desire of citizens for normality. We have always made our decisions together, with experts, with the social partners and also with the countries. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The main goal of our decisions was to protect the health of the population, to interrupt the infection chains, and not to overload the health system – and we succeeded in doing so. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say one thing: It was our chancellor who announced in the summer of 2020 that we are already starting to immunize in January 2021. ==References== To immunize December! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] It was our chancellor who announced a few months ago that there will be large opening steps in May – and on 19 May. May is so far: We will be able to open our decisions with the help of the people, and that is good and right! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] And, my guesses. Ladies and gentlemen, it was also our chancellor who, in negotiations with the European Union, managed to obtain a million more vaccines by the end of June 2021. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This means that by the end of June 2021 we will also have vaccinated all people in Austria who want to be vaccinated. That's good and right. Promise and maintain – thank you, Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! What's another reason for us to be on the 19th? May open, and why are we more than other countries? [[Abg. Belakovich: We are no more than other countries, Mr Colleague!]] Because we have established a test system in Austria, which is looking for the same in Europe. We're world champions at testing, and that's good. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Stay with the truth!]] – Mrs Belakovich, I am trying to explain to you that the problem is, I cannot understand it for you. That's the problem. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP as well as congratulation with Green MEPs.]] We test in the schools, we test in the pharmacies, we test in the communities, in the test roads. [[Abg. Amesbauer: That's the insanity!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Stop it!]] The municipalities, the mayors and mayors, are the strong partners of this federal government in the fight against pandemic. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The municipalities, the countries put the test strategy of the Federal Government one to one, and one sees that very, very much works well in that country. [[Call the FPÖ:Leider, unfortunately!]] Now and now it is about creating the framework conditions to be able to open up in certain areas, in many areas: in sport – a heart attack by me – in tourism, in gastronomy and in art and culture. [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Please go!]] We also want to be a pioneer, just as we are in many other areas. [[Abg. Belakovich: We're all over the place! Final light when opening, final light in the economy!]] Of course, we need concepts to be able to open safely, and with this novel, we are now making sure that there is a level playing field of tested, vaccinated and naturally cured persons from Corona who have formed antibodies as a sign of immunity. [[Abg. Amesbauer: That's so stupid! That's so stupid!]] That is, if you are tested, vaccinated or healed, you can go to the inn, you can go to the sports court or you can go to the Prater with the children, and that is good. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] ==References== In May the opening steps will be followed, we have worked together here in Parliament, together with a large part of the population, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We're on the last foot of the pandemic fight. [[Abg. Kickl: You'll be surprised!]] I am convinced that the population is in solidarity and in the middle of it. The more people go along, the faster we will achieve our goal. I'm convinced we'll be able to control the infection by summer. It is especially important for the economic location of Austria that we open up, it is important for jobs that we open up. [[Abg. Belakovich: Well, let's open!]] Fortunately, the unemployment rate is already going back. It is seen that the measures put forward by this Federal Government also function and work. And, ladies and gentlemen, we will also put forward further measures aimed at bringing people back to work. This is a big concern for us, and we have shown that we can. We will take further action. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] EUR 300 million for the Springboard action: [[Abg. Martin Graf: For God's sake! Still... measures!]] We will invest 300 million euros. Our aim is to get 50 000 long-term unemployed back into employment in the next few years. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We do not want to manage unemployment as others want it, but we want people in employment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] We invest in broadband expansion, we invest in digitalisation and we invest in the communities. There is EUR 2.5 billion for our communities, which, of course, goes into the regional economy and, above all, secures jobs in the regions and rural areas. That's good and right. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It is also important, ladies and gentlemen, because I see colleagues Martin Graf, who is also sports enthusiasts, that we are on 19th. Start with the sport on March 30th. [[Interlocutory call from Mr Belakovich and Mr Steger.]] 15,000 clubs breathe up. The officials have shown, above all in this difficult time, that they can We were a strong partner with financial support, with the NPO fund, and we will continue to be a strong partner for the voluntary and sports clubs in this country. [[New call for tender Riser]] [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] What is it about now? – We are on the last kilometers of this pandemic fight. [[Abg. Worm:... kilometers!]] I am convinced that we will create these and also create the comeback for Austria. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e7072	Mr Klubobmann was next reported on August Wöginger's speech. [[Abg. Martin Graf: For an actual correction?]] [[Call at the FPÖ:... actual correction of the ÖVP!]] Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e7117	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I think it is also necessary to mention a few things here at the end of this special meeting, because it is not natural how a country comes through a very difficult period of pandemic and crisis. [[Call the FPÖ:Yes, eh!]] I would like to highlight today's decision, since I believe it is very important for people in this country that we equal them, whether they have been vaccinated, tested or healed, and that they so to speak have the entrance ticket to the café, to the inn, to a hotel or also to a cultural or sports event. [[Interlocutory calls from Amesbauer and Martin Graf]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] This equality, I believe, is absolutely linked to a social balance and to justice, especially to those people who are also willing to fight this pandemic – and that is doing so, thank God, very many in this country. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] I would like to put these 3.2 million people in the foreground of the impracticable population who have received at least one vaccination. I would like to stress one thing: There is no vaccination obligation in this country, and it will not exist, but, ladies and gentlemen, the appeal to be vaccinated, I am sending it from this point on to the population, because only in this way will we regain our normality and the freedom you so conjure up from the FPÖ. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] Only in this way will it go – almost all the world, but not the Freedom Party in Austria. [[It was in favour of ÖVP and Greens, as well as of SPÖ representatives.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] In the end, the spray also separates itself from wheat. It is also not easy for a ruling party to get through such a time of crisis – yes! –, and the one who is without error, he throws the first stone. [[Call at the FPÖ:... also...!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Well, you!]] There is no checklist or manual to deal with a pandemic, as it has not been for 100 years, or for an economic situation such as we did not have since World War II, but I can tell you one thing: We have done everything – and almost around the clock – to put the protection of the population, the protection of the people in this country in the foreground, we have done everything we can to ensure that this crisis situation is as economic as possible and that we are able to reach out to all those who are in a difficult situation. That is what we have done, ladies and gentlemen, to this day, and we will do it further. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens]] [[Abg. Kickl:... others!]] Now it's ready: What has been announced will be implemented. We said: In mid-May, we will take big opening steps. [[Abg. Belakovich:... before Easter? What you promised!]] This is now being brought to paper, ladies and gentlemen. We open the innhouses, we open tourism, we open the cultural events, we open the sport. [[New call for tender Belakovich]] Why? – Because precisely the vaccination and the successful test strategy we have implemented in our country are the basic prerequisites for our being able to do so. We can do this with a previous balance sheet that is in order, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, we have economic damage like all other countries too, but we can now take great opening steps. That is what matters: that we can start now, because both really paid off, namely the test strategy and the vaccination strategy in parallel – that is why we can now take these steps. A great thank you to everyone in the population who has also participated, because it is only by this that it is possible to do the same now! Yeah, it's true: [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] It's not the green pass we decide on, but it's a step-by-step model that we're starting now, with a further step from 19. May – yes, also with notes, also with a written confirmation, or you have the test result on your mobile phone. [[Call at the FPÖ:... analog!]] Where, please, is the problem? - That's not one! As a result, the Minister of Health will endeavour to bring this together between the federal states, that we will have it in digital form, and in the final development there will be the green pass at European level. The whole world is concerned with how, under special precautions, we can gradually return to our normal life. [[Abg. Amesbauer: That's not true!]] That is what we are doing, and the first step is being taken today with the decision-making of this law. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: What's normal?]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, because it is a synonym for how some policies deal with rules and measures: We have only reached this point because most of the people have always adhered to rules and measures. We also know – we know that and we are fully aware of it! – that we have asked the population a lot – that is no question at all. None of us have had the pleasure of saying: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Please don't do this! Avoid that visit! You can't go to the inn! – All these things are not easy for us, because we do not want to, but it is only the pandemic. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Sure!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] That is why it is not a question of the fact that, in a democracy such as we live in Austria, there is, above all, a political group – and I would say, very few in a political group – which simply say: [[Abg. Kickl: Why don't you wear the mask?]] No, that's not true for me! [[Abg. Kickl: Why do you speak without a mask? The Minister of Health...! Why don't you wear one?]] Although I wear the mask in the supermarket, I also wear the mask at the FPÖ party in Vienna, I also wear it, but no, here I do not wear it because I demonstrate that I am against it, and maybe I can join some voters. [[Abg. Steger: There is no...!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Why don't you wear...?]] – This is what Mr Kickl is constantly trying to do here. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] That's what the FPÖ is doing here, and nothing else. This is actually a very dangerous game, how to deal with pandemics. [[Abg. Kickl: Why don't you wear a mask when talking? The Minister of Health...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] That is what has actually lost nothing in a democratic world, as we understand it. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] One would have understood: President Hofer has already been vaccinated. You can only welcome this! You can only welcome the fact that there are reasonable powers in the Freedom Party too. – Mr Kickl, you believe that health is of course the most important, and of course you want most of the people in Austria to stay healthy, but if you do not believe that this pandemic can lead to serious Corona diseases, please ask your liberal party observer in Upper Austria, who has been hanging on the breathing equipment for a week, whether this is a dangerous disease or not! [[Abg. Kickl: Why do you speak without a mask?]] [[Abg. Kickl: (significant towards Federal Minister Mückstein) He speaks with mask! Why don't you speak without a mask?]] Just call him! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This federal government is on the side of the population, from the first day, since we have been dealing with this pandemic and the subsequent economic crisis, and we are going through it together until the last day! A very important decision is being taken today to ensure that the opening steps are taken on 19 November. May be coordinated and can go over stage with a practical, just solution. We'll continue this path. We have to stay a little bit careful, but I am good things that we get back that summer that we all wish we had a summer, as we had last year, and that we get our normality back. But this is only with the way we are going together, and not with a protest and a wake-up of society and non-compliance with measures. You don't lead a state like this, that's why you're in opposition, and there you will stay too!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e7448	The next item is the speech by Mr Gerald Hauser. – Ladies and gentlemen, you still have two minutes left to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e7469	High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) That was a one-sided speech. The ÖVP has its world, it ignores every other world – you hide everything! Since November we have had an undifferentiated permanent lockdown, of you against the will of the economy, against the will of the Tourism is decreed, and today you are making yourselves and you want to be cheered for it. That's not gonna work, we won't cheer you! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The ÖVP and the government hide the other reality. [[The speaker shall place a panel on the speaker’s desk, which shall include the names of vaccine manufacturers and the number of cases under the heading ‘Authorised adverse reactions as at 24.04.2021’.]] Mr Wöginger, you're talking about protecting the population. These figures were reported to the EMA: [[pointing to the panel]] Although only one tenth of the severe and mild side effects are reported, 354,000 adverse reactions have been reported within the last three months alone. Healthy people are vaccinated, and these are the side effects. There have already been more than 7 000 reported deaths. - You'll totally hide it. This surprises me at the left mainstream at all: For weeks, please, it's been on the net, because women have massive problems in menstruation. [[another panel on the speaker board, on which several web addresses are listed under the heading “Corona vaccination affects menstruation”]] – You hide this, there’s no feminism, it doesn’t matter! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You hide the Austrian Medicines Act, which appears in § 75 para. 3 The following says – I quote –: “The Federal Office for Health Safety has a system to prevent medicinal products that are potentially harmful to health from reaching patients.” – For this reason alone, you need to support our request to suspend the vaccinations with Astra Zeneca. [[The speaker put another table on the speaker’s desk, under the heading “The Austrian Medicines Act § 75 para. 3’ the text quoted by him is rendered.]] I have little time to speak, I end up with a quote from Bertolt Brecht, which makes the point: “Whoever doesn’t know the truth” – colleague Wöinger – “he’s just a fool. [[put a table with the corresponding quote Bertolt Brecht on the speaker's desk]] But whoever knows it and calls it a lie, he is a criminal.” – Add nothing to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e7560	The use of quotations should then be discussed again in the next presidential conference (p. Worm: Bertolt Brecht!==References====External links== Mr Philip Kucher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please. (Abg. Worm: Philip, come on our side!)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e7593	In the direction of ÖVP: What came from Zarits and Wöginger today – I am telling you quite honestly now: Slowly it will be time for the innhouses to open up again. Gust Wöginger, the glass that you told here today – if you have the courage to tell the people in a guest house, they'll hunt you out with the wet slut. That you're not enjoying yourself! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] We have entrepreneurs who are desperate because they do not know how to proceed. We have people in Austria who have lost everything. We have thousands of people who have lost their families. We have had the highest number of new infections worldwide in autumn. We have not managed to protect the nursing homes because it was important to you that Mr. Mahrer could make himself important in summer with Mrs. Köstinger and with some senseless testeries. There we have been testing around, and in the nursing homes where seriously ill people have been, we have had too few capacities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] We have people in Austria who still do not have jobs that are desperate. We have mothers and fathers at home who must look their children in the eye, although they themselves have no job, saying, It'll all be all right, we'll give you some help and we won't let you down. You tell all these people as the only lesson from the crisis: Sebastian Kurz is great! We're the best! – That’s a shame what went off today! Talking about comeback for Austria, bla, bla, bla, bla – these are marketing statements. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, with the representatives of the FPÖ and by Mr Bernhard and Mr Loacker.]] Now it's clear to me why Sebastian Kurz needs 60 press speakers: To write you the speeches that you are not more critical, but one by one what you get written down by Sebastian Kurz's press spokesman. This is, in fact, a shame for this House, how we deal with human fates! Let's go back to the facts: With every single statement from our colleague, Mr Zarit, we can prove that this did not vote in the back and in the front. In summer Sebastian Kurz told about the light at the end of the tunnel. The only light that came was that we were a final light – in economic growth, in the figures, in the corona crisis management; half Europe laughed about crisis management. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] Then Sebastian Briefly told us that the health consequences of the crisis have long survived, and we are planless, unprepared into the second wave. This has been the fate of people, because marketing was more important than good crisis management. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hanger.]] We've heard experts from Sebastian Kurz's Advisory Board in this room, and these were doctors who told us: Yes, one reason Austria got so much worse through the crisis was because marketing and press work were more important than crisis management. – So far we have been in Austria: Marketing blabla instead of good crisis management; that was the policy of the ÖVP. You can't deal with each other like that! [[It is a pleasure to see the SPÖ as well as the Brandstätter and Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff Members.]] When should Sputnik have been there? When did Sebastian bring Kurz Sputnik to Austria, where he knows himself so well? Astra Zeneca! Mrs. Schramböck, who told me everything was going too slowly, and then it was too fast again. – This is all embarrassing, what happened in crisis management in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] We have often helped you out of the patch enough because we have just said that when it comes to human life, you have to work together. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] In January, however, there has not even been a test strategy in Austria. Remember the people who work in rescue service, the Samaritan League, the Red Cross! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] There has not yet been a comprehensive rapid tests in January, but Mr. Kurz has made himself important with his mass tests, as in Slovakia, – pointless events, which we have all experienced. Why do I say all that now? Because it is a white cock for many, many people in Austria, who are now really dirty, that they have to listen to the ÖVP: the best German chancellor of all time, comeback for Austria. Do your job and once have the courage not to tell anything here, which nobody believes in you outside! You all know that all this is a dirty party. Take the time, talk to the people who really don't do well! The ÖVP would also not be bad at having a little heart and listening to all the people who are not really doing well in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e7716	Next word reported: Mr Schalmeiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e7737	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, High house! Mr. Minister! I have now had to come out briefly, because Mr Hauser has swaddered a little of 7,000 vaccines that exist in Europe. This is always the same with the FPÖ: Once it was 4,000, as Mrs Belakovich has said, then it is 7 000 vaccines. What's next week? I think the only problem that Britain really has right now is that they are going out of beer, but not the vaccines that are supposed to exist. You know we're still talking about evidence. You know, we're still talking about the fact that it needs proof first. Putting yourself out here and simply claiming things you can't even prove, just to poison the mood in this country in the final effect – and something else isn't about you. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] It's just about going to vote with cheap populism, something else you don't do. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] That's something of last-class, what? You deliver from the FPÖ here when it comes to vaccination when it comes to health protection and prevention! This is in the spirit of your Minister of Health, who destroyed the Ministry of Health at the time!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e7795	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Madam President, he is so aggressive...!]] Before we go into the voting process, I ask the clubs whether we can vote immediately. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] [[Abg. Martin Graf:... who cut all the women!]] - Well, then I'll go like that. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft federal law amending the Epidemic Act and the COVID-19 Act, 813 of the Supplements. There is a desire for a separate vote by Mr Loacker. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the vote concerned by the request for a separate vote and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted. We shall proceed to the separate vote on a point of order. 2 Z 3 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Who agrees? – This is accepted by a majority. That is why we shall come to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent to the draft law in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Loacker, colleagues, on 'Inclusion of antibody tests in the 'Green Pass''. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. [[Oeh?-Rufe at the ÖVP in the direction of the]] [[raised from their seats]] [[Member of the FPÖ.]] Debates of the European Parliament Who's for this? – This is the minority, rejected. [[Abg. Worm: (in the direction of the non-representatives of the Greens) The Greens... Data protection!]] We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, colleagues and colleagues on 'Data storage 'Green Pass''. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Members Kucher, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Covid evidence in Austria'. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. This motion for a resolution did not find the majority and was rejected. Agenda item 2: Draft federal law which amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, including title and receipt in 814 of the Supplements. If you vote in favour of this bill, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent to the draft law in third reading, I ask for a sign. The draft law was adopted unanimously at third reading. The agenda is exhausted. **15.44.18Intake
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e7934	I announce that, at today's meeting, self-employed requests 1562/A(E) to 1579/A(E) have been submitted. Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00101_d8e7954	There is a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda items 1 and 2 so that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the sitting. I read: ‘ToTO point 1: The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 813 of the Supplements, will be adopted in separate vote in second reading [...] and in third reading [...]. [...] To TO point 2: The draft law will be adopted in the second and third readings in 814 in accordance with the Committee’s proposal.’ Are there any objections to the version or content of those parts of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 15.45 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
