ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7199	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I can give you a very warm welcome to the 115. Parliament called on the Council to adopt a common position on the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to The sitting was opened. I can welcome the ladies and gentlemen journalists, who welcome visitors to the gallery, also the spectators at home in front of the TV devices. The official protocols of 111 and 112. Meeting of 16 and 17. ==References====External links== Meeting of 17 March 1990 In June 2021, there were no objections at all in Parliament's management. The representatives of Melanie Erasim, MSc, Eva Maria Holzleitner, BSc, Andreas Kollross, Kai Jan Krainer, Dr. Christoph Matznetter, Petra Wimmer, Nurten Yılmaz, Christian Hafenecker, MA, Alois Kainz, Mag. [[See also p. 289]] Christian Ragger, Christian Ries, Heike Grebien, David Stögmüller, Mag. Nina Tomaselli, Dr. Helmut Brandstätter, Dr. Stephanie Krisperund Josef Schellhorn. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7286	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: Federal Minister for Women, Family, Youth and Integration MMag. Dr. Susanne Raab is represented by the Federal Minister for the Interior of Karl Nehammer, MSc. I should also like to announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union: Federal Minister for Labour Mag. Dr. Martin Kocher will be Mag. Claudia Tanner. For the purposes of § 50 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Belakovich raised written objections to the agenda for today's sitting. The objections concern the presentation of Agenda item 5 as Agenda item 1. I am not in favour of these objections, which is why the National Council has to decide. In the debate under Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure, I limit the speaking time to 5 minutes and the number of speakers per club to three. The objection debate will be held after the current hour. I may announce that, as always, ORF 2 will transfer the meeting until 1 pm, ORF III will then be transmitted until 7.15 p.m.; it will be later commented on in the TV library. [[09:07:23]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7362	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Who pays the cost of the Corona crisis? Millions of assets are rising in Austria, online multis are making billions of profits, while poverty is rising and the middle class is under severe pressure. The Federal Government must act, Federal Chancellor!" I would like to warmly welcome the Federal Chancellor, the Federal Minister and the Secretary of State in our midst. First of all, MEPs are speaking on behalf of Mr Rendi-Wagner. I can give her the word. - Please, Mrs. Klubobfrau.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7393	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The good news is: In Austria, the wealth is growing – despite Corona, because of Corona, no one knows that so well, and it also doesn't matter because the bad news is at the same time: Not all of them benefit. As the wealth has increased, poverty has also increased in Austria. 1.5 million people in Austria are currently at risk of poverty or are already living in poverty. They are mainly children, they are elderly women, they are single-schoolers and they are long-term unemployed who are particularly vulnerable and affected by poverty, whose number has increased during this Corona period. But also more and more people who go to work who have a job have an income are becoming more and more under pressure. The problem has long since been the problem of a small group, it has long arrived in the middle class of our society. More and more are simply no longer getting over the rounds with their income – not to mention the social rise. These tricks of the social rise, which occurred in the 1970s and 1980s, which probably benefited two thirds of the Members present here, as I did, and probably you, Mr Bundeskanzler, are the ones who have been working on the social ascent, at the latest since Corona. According to the National Bank and the Chamber of Labour, the richest 1 percent of our population currently owns 40 percent of the assets in Austria – 40 percent! Corona has further intensified this asset gap. It is high unemployment, it is the economic downturn, which is why the wealth in Austria has even more unevenly distributed. Rich people became richer, poorer. Let's say what it's like: This crisis has produced winners, but also losers – much more losers than winners – and we all need to talk about it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] Why? – This inequality, this injustice is bad, it is dangerous and it is unhealthy. It is not only dangerous for those affected by descent and poverty, it is unhealthy for us as a society, for society as a whole, for all of us. It threatens one thing that must be so precious to us: our social peace in Austria. The consequence is clear: A society in which it is not fair will also remain economically far behind its possibilities – that is a major problem in the times of the economic crisis –, yes, it will end up being torn by its internal conflicts. This is the result of inequality. One question has to be asked: What is our social peace worth? What is he worth to you, Mr. Federal Chancellor? I am convinced that many assets would be willing to make a contribution to the preservation of this very social peace in Austria, to make more contribution. [[Abg. Wöginger: Numbers already tax!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] A few days ago, the CEO of the world’s largest insurance group, Allianz – you will know him – gave Oliver Bäte, the “Süddeutsche Zeitung” a very remarkable interview. He said the following sentence: “It’s not fair anymore.” He also said: “The wealth accumulation is currently mainly about inheritance, not by income. But we're taxing income more and more. [...] the inheritance tax must rise.’; [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] They all know the statements of the former Chief of First Group Andreas Treichl, who – I think it was 2018 – said: ‘Authorisation is not a performance.’ [[Abg. Kickl: And what is the state's performance...?]] Hans Peter Haselsteiner also publicly stated two years ago that a property tax would be an important means of correcting this inequality in society. [[Abg. Loacker:... but wasn't there!]] - You're all right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] In the face of this century crisis, they are all even more right, because the costs of this crisis are enormous, ladies and gentlemen, and these costs will have to be paid. [[Abg. Kassinger:... Citizenship Donate!]] But who will have to pay these costs – by whom? Mr Bundeskanzler, what are your proposals for this? The answer should be given today, because one thing will certainly not go: that these enormous costs of crisis will be placed on the shoulders of the workers, the workers and pensioners of this country, on the shoulders of those who are already paying the lion's share, namely 80 percent, of the total taxes – 80 percent! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Wöginger: No single pensioner has gotten less, not one!]] On the question: Who pays the costs, Mr. Federal Chancellor, can only give a single answer. If it is to be fair in our country if the social peace in Austria is to be assured, there can only be an answer, namely: At last, everyone, really everyone, must make a fair contribution; and in doing so, the following must apply: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] Wider shoulders are supposed to carry bigger loads! [[Abg. Wöger: Bodybuilder probably!]] When, if not now, are taxes on millions and billions of assets, on inheritances urgently necessary? When, if not now, I ask you, is it necessary that international online multis finally assume their responsibility? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is about online multis such as Amazon, which benefits tax loopholes in Europe in order to make billions of profits in Austria – profits that were even greater because of Corona last year – online multis, which, however, do not pay taxes in Austria, did not pay taxes in Europe, but even received a tax credit in Europe last year. That's unfair. It is also unfair to all domestic entrepreneurs who pay their taxes and taxes on time each year. These contributions are important, they are necessary for all of us so that, despite these enormous costs of crisis, we can prepare Austria for the future. We must not forget to make Austria fit for the future. Why? – Because it will continue to be necessary in the future to strengthen this social state in order to invest in kindergartens, in hospitals, in research and development in order to drive the competitiveness of Austria towards other countries competing with us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] Yes, we finally need a tax system that will ensure more distribution justice in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, it is clearly too little to clap the heroes of the crisis for weeks and to serve at the end of the crisis exactly these heroes the thick, fat crisis account. That won't go out, Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What we now need so urgently in this post-pandemic period is an economic and social policy that works for all in Austria, which rebuilds our society from the bottom and from the middle; a growth that comes to everyone; a justice that allows social rise again, creates confidence and optimism for all; a distribution justice by a certain social state, yes, a distribution justice by decent wages for hard-working people in Austria, a distribution justice for a social network that no one leaves behind in Austria, with a decent compensation for unemployment, from which one can also live. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, all this is not a question of ideology – no! – but it is a question of fairness, it is a question of justice, it is a question of reason and it is a question of how much worth our social peace in Austria is. Mr. Federal Chancellor, you've got it in your hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7580	Mr Bundeskanzler has been notified of an introductory opinion on the floor. I can give him the word. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7630	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that I am able to stand in front of you today at the beginning of the summer with a very optimistic view of the next months and years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Over the last one and a half years, we have experienced a pandemic that has been historic to its extent, which all of us have called for, and which, of course, has also brought a massive challenge to the economy and the labour market, in addition to the health challenge. We all know Corona's not over. The virus has not disappeared, but through the vaccination process, we are able to push the virus back and forth, we are able to protect more and more people. [[Abg. Belakovich: You can see that in Israel right now!]] These are good news for all of our health, but above all they are good news for business location and the labour market. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the next few minutes, I can now consider why I believe that we can look very, very optimistically and positively at the next few years, and what adjustments we consider relevant from the Federal Government in this regard. First of all, take a quick look back: We have decided in the Federal Government at the beginning of the crisis that we want to do everything we can to dispel the consequences of the crisis economically and especially for the workers. I was told yesterday by someone who said: Well, at the sentence: “It costs what it wants,” I somehow felt unwell! . I understand this, since I have always fought, ever since I was politically active, for us to deal with tax money sparingly, that we are trying to keep the budget under control. [[Abg. Kickl: Ah, ah, you were very reluctant with advertising issues!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] I was also mistakenly proud of the fact that after 60 years of debt policy as a federal government, we ended this debt policy and even made a budget surplus for two years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Just as this attitude will never change with me, I am glad and still think it is right that, in times of crisis, we have deliberately tried to address the consequences of the crisis. We have done everything we can to ensure that people do not lose their jobs wherever they can, so that they can stay in employment and have a regulated income despite the global economic crisis and pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that we have done this, and I am glad that it has succeeded in keeping over a million people in employment by short-time work during this time of crisis, which otherwise, without these measures, would have lost their job. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The upturn in the world economy, the measures we have put in place, and of course also investments that boost growth are now leading to a very, very positive forecast. We expect an economic growth of 4 percent this year, perhaps even more next year. That is to say, there is very good reason to look positively into the future, to be happy about it. Unemployment rates are falling, and the figures for economic growth are constantly rising upward. We have a phase of the economic boom ahead of us, we have a phase of the upswing ahead of us, and that is something positive that should make us in a far-reaching way confident. [[Prolonged applause with the ÖVP and congratulation with the greens.]] And now, ladies and gentlemen, politics has the responsibility to do everything to support this upturn while ensuring that all people in our country benefit from it. What does that mean? – In my view, this means that we should not have a tax debate, because tax increases, all these debates: Where can we introduce more taxes?, do one thing: they inhibit our economy. Therefore, I believe that the way we are trying to further reduce regulations and reduce the tax burden for working people, especially for small and medium-sized income recipients, is also the right one, because it is not only good for the location and for economic development, but it also leads to more justice when people who go to work have more to live. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This is the way, ladies and gentlemen, which we took years ago. In our coalition with the FPÖ, one of the first measures we worked on was that we introduced the family bonus: 1 500 euros per child per year for people who go to work and have children. In addition, we have reduced wage and income tax and social security contributions for small incomes so that people with small incomes remain more alive. And since I am Federal Chancellor, ladies and gentlemen, we have always adjusted the minimum pensions and the small pensions over inflation – you will not like this, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, but we have increased them more than was the case among Socialist Chancellors – and we will continue to do so, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] What has so far been our way will remain our way even after the crisis, namely: Top goal remains to relieve the people who get up and go to work every day, to support the people who have worked hard for their lives and are now in the well-deserved pension, and to do everything that he who goes to work is not stupid. This also includes – and I say that clearly – that we continue the way to consistently combat immigration into the social system. There is an disproportionately high number of foreign citizens among the unemployed in our country, and we have seen immigration into our social system over the last decades – this is something we do not want and this is a decisive fight, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition to the need to relieve working people, it is also important – and this is just as relevant – that we do everything that young people in our country have every chance – no matter who their parents are, what their parents work or what educational status their parents have. We want to be an ascent society and therefore we also invest very consciously in supporting the children who may not have been able to achieve the educational success they would have liked in the Corona crisis. The crisis was a massive burden on parents, families, children. The under-a-hut bridge of home schooling on the one hand and a job on the other was a huge challenge for many families. That is why I am glad that, together with the Minister of Education, we were able to set up a summer school in which 40 000 students now have the opportunity to force their language skills, to advance mathematics and to improve in other core competences. This summer school will continue in the coming years beyond the summer, in order to support children and young people from socially weaker families, so that we are an ascent society in which everyone can be successful, in which everyone can be able to take a foothold on the labour market and, in future, take care of his own family. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis has clearly shown: More and more value creation takes place in the large digital groups. What does that mean to us? – This means for us that on the one hand, we need to better tax these companies, that we need to tax them more. We are pleased with the international progress that is being made in this area, but we want to move forward here in Austria. We were among the first countries to introduce a digital tax to tax precisely these large tech groups, and we will continue this way to produce more tax justice also between small and medium-sized companies in Austria on the one hand and large tech groups on the other. At the same time, however, it is important that we, even in Austria, push ahead with digitization. We – the competent minister sitting next to me – are investing just 1.4 billion euros in the development of super-fast Internet. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We ensure that in school, not only are all students provided with terminal equipment, i.e. tablets or laptops, but these digital tools are also more and more used in teaching. And we are investing in the digitization of our administration because we know that more and more value-added will take place in this area and that many jobs will depend more and more on this area in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! We can rightly look optimistically at the next few years, we can rightly look at the economy, the labour market, employment, and as the Federal Government, we will try to create the best possible framework conditions to make this upturn happen in order to support it and, above all, to ensure that it arrives with all people who rise up daily and work hard, for these are those who cannot be fools in our country. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7758	Mr Melchior is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7780	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The last months were really a very, very hard time, which was characterized by the fact that a lot of people in this country have pulled on a line. A group has left out a bit of this, very strong even, namely the SPÖ. It was marked by a dispute in a time which must be very challenging for all parties involved, and I would like to say how to describe it: It was called by malice and incompetence; the SPÖ had lost access to the base, it was called. Who says: What about the Secretary General of the ÖVP, why is he so mean towards SPÖ?, to which I can only say that these are not my words I use there, but these are words of the former, failed chairman of the SPÖ Christian Kern or of the head of state in Carinthia Peter Kaiser. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] They describe a situation in the SPÖ, which is characterized by conflict, disfavor and malice. This might be the way to lead your party, but not to deal with the current crisis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why I am really glad that one is not oriented to the SPÖ proposals, to this evil class struggle, which is now being called back to distract from this dispute, but to think about other measures. The corona aid measures amounting to EUR 35 billion have enabled us to continue to support businesses in Austria, to secure jobs and to give people the opportunity to make their lives more self-determined – and that is exactly what matters – non-evil class struggle: Entrepreneurs against employees who play one against the other. This is ancient, it does not bring anything and is not the way we can wish for ourselves in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We also see that it has success. Thanks to the Federal Government, thanks to the people who have contributed there, thanks to the great commitment of many people, we have better come through this crisis and now stand there better. The Federal Chancellor announced: We now have the normality that we have wished for, but we have not expected. [[Abg. Kickl: Well, after!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: No, we didn't want that!]] We now experience that there is a recovery: 4 percent economic growth, next year 5 percent economic growth. It's a huge boom, an enormous power and energy that comes about here. You can now decide: If you want the class struggle, do you want to play the opposite out, or do you want a ascending society, as the Federal Chancellor described it? I know for my part what we want. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We want a society in which everyone and everyone can achieve everything they or he want, in which all possibilities are given to truly lead a self-determined life in order to achieve everything. To the SPÖ I say to the conclusion: You're making a policy that's already played empty all party days. Just do me a favor and don't make politics that also emptys the location! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7856	Member of the Muchitsch Chamber has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7877	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Melchior, it is not about class struggle, and I will also explain to you why this is not the way you claim. [[Objection to the ÖVP]] Today, we have chosen the subject of this current hour very consciously. Why? - Because people at home should know: Who's been paying for the crisis so far? So far, this crisis is paying for the future pensioners. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have decided with the support of the Green Pension Reductions – in a year of crisis! They were the ones who decided in the middle of the Corona year 2020 the reductions for incoming pensioners. [[Abg. Disoski: That's not true!]] All future pensioners will not receive the full adjustment of the aliquota pension increase thanks to you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: ( towards Abg. Disoski) That's what you decided!]] With a gross pension of 1,500 euros per month – this is not a high pension, 1 500 euros per month – you reduce the pension by 420 euros gross per year, and this loss then increases year after year. They also reduce the cost to those people who are always the so-called service providers for you, make 45 years' contributions, pay 45 years in social security and in the tax system. These people have taken the discount-free pension, and this is more than unfair to those benefits you always say are so important to the country. [[Abg. Worm: Bravo, Beppo!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] These service providers take something away instead of giving them something. There is no corona premium, no relief on small and medium-sized incomes, no tax-free corona premium for companies with their employees for 2021, no higher tax freedom for commuters on day money and on expenses. It is not enough, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, but these people have deserved an appreciation and a financial reward! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today, the next pension robbery takes place. Today you decide in the evening to abolish the special support in the mining industry. A small group of nearly 600 people is still active there, paying higher contributions that still do mostly heavy work, and you take away this special support. The system is always the same: They take something away from a group of workers, but the others have nothing of it. This is nothing but a play-out within this group, and these people have not deserved it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to the unemployment group. We remember: In April 2020, there was a record unemployment rate of 571,000 people in Austria. 220,000 people have found a job again. Mr Labour Minister, about 350 000 are still unemployed, of which 138 000 are long-term unemployed, who have not found a job for more than 12 months. As a result, the government has simply slept for 15 months to put up with early employment programmes for this affected group. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: That's not true!]] Summary: Mr. Federal Chancellor, who pays for the crisis? – They are the workers, they are the future pensioners, they are the weakest in our society, if you also assume that you want to reduce unemployment benefit to 40 percent by the ÖVP with your proposal on the Economic Federation. And you have also left the small and medium-sized enterprises in the crisis. Mr Bundeskanzler, distribution justice looks different! I'm telling you who's not paying for the crisis up to now: It's the wealth, it's the big corporations, it's the online multis and it's those who run wage and social fraud. [[Call:Employments]] They'll be spared by you up to now! There are wealth in this country that say: We want to make a contribution, we support the demand for more solidarity, we want a legal regime for a solidarity levy, we want inheritance and gift taxes, as they have already introduced many other countries across Europe, and we support a solidarity levy for online multi. It's really incredible: Now there are assets in this country that are willing to make a contribution, and you, Federal Chancellor, do not accept this offer! – Why Protect You here? Why Make You don't have the relevant legal regulations? From poor to rich, from little to great: No one in this country understands why a sausage is paying more taxes than an online multi. No one understands that anymore! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Hauser.]] And that's exactly why, Federal Chancellor, we're not talking about class struggle. We are not talking about class struggle when wealth is willing to make a contribution, and you do not accept this offer. Finally, one point I would like to address: Wage and social dumping.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8006	Mr President, your speaking time has expired. I ask you to come to the end of the sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8021	Why, Federal Chancellor, do you make wage and social dumping cheaper in this country? We as SPÖ will not tire out to show your missing and unsocial policy, and I hope that many people will become more and more aware of it; we know this from feedback. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: You're tired already!]] We will continue to fight for a social and fair distribution in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8059	Mr Klubobmann Kickl is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8080	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! “Who pays the cost of the Corona crisis?” – In advance, a congratulation to social democracy, because after the political grip on the cloto not too long ago, namely in connection with Austrian citizenship, which you wanted to degradate into a shady article, this is now a political approach that one must face positively. They are asking the right question in the first place. However, they only ask the question correctly, because, as it were, one has to add a second question to complete the overall overview. And this second question is as follows: Yes, who, please, is the one who has caused the costs to be paid now? Only if you take this second question, which is based on the 'polluter pays' principle, will the picture become complete. You see, ladies and gentlemen, in the answer, we will of course be landing in addition to the Austrian People's Party and, in addition to the Greens, also with the ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy. They don't get away well at all, because so, Like the government, like the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, the vice-chanc and all the ministers, as they are called, have developed a genuine love of lockdowns and closures on the ongoing band, so it could not be enough for social democracy in these senseless and counterproductive measures. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can't steal from the responsibility! All of this was too little for you, and to this day you continue to pursue this insanity. Therefore, in recent months, social democracy has not only undertaken the project of ruining its own party and leading it to the brink of bankruptcy, but also in complicity with the ÖVP and with the Greens to drive the same project for the economy of this country. This is a very, very dangerous alliance that has formed here. Just as it was Turquoise and Green who organized this wealth distribution from the little ones to the big ones – with the vehicle of their so-called corona, or its so-called health policy – the SPÖ was always in complication with it. They are also responsible for the fact that Amazon, Hygiene Austria and as they all are called, the giants of the pharmaceutical industry, the winners of this Corona crisis. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It was also the Social Democracy that has cleared and prepared the way for what is now coming; and what now comes from the ÖVP and from the Greens, that is the big attack on the small people, that is the great attack on the medium-sized. That's what's coming. The large-scale attack on hackers, the large-scale attack on the workers, the large-scale attack on pensioners, the large-scale attack on the ground-based entrepreneurs and, of course, the large-scale attack on the unemployed, that is, on all those who have not bought themselves out of their responsibilities with your donation system – the Tag Projekt Ballhausplatz – from the outset. With the media, you will certainly not save, even if you have now turned up as a economical ascetic, Mr. Bundeskanzler. There the millions have flown as rich as ever before – by the way, in the red Vienna, I am still saying that. The media have been fed like the Martinigänse. You haven't had any money left for the heroes of the crisis to this day. – This has to be said once too. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] How will we be disbursed? - I'll give you a few examples. For example, it will be disbursed by increasing energy prices. That hits the little ones very hard. These energy companies are in public hands. You can read this in the “Salzburger Nachrichten”. The electricity prices will be increased. I guarantee you that, in autumn and winter, there will be a wave of energy in this whole energy sector, where the electricity is concerned, but of course also those who still have gas households will be properly asked to check out – all of this under the cover of ecologisation. This is, for you, the same thing as progress. That's the camouflage you're supporting over all these ventures. We have already got a taste with the NoVA increase, where family cars and transporters, who need the entrepreneurs, then almost become some kind of luxury items. The journey will continue: Under the cover of ecologisation is disassembled. Another thing will come: Social reduction will come. They sent people to short work first, then to unemployment. You have not created new jobs, you have not created protection against cheap workers from abroad. Now stigmatize I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. Vehicles now go here to justify your cuts. That's the plan you're following: Reductions in unemployment benefit, cuts in emergency aid, the removal of - -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8152	May I ask you – the speaking time is over – that you come to the final sentence?- Oh, my God! Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8168	The hacker scheme has already been mentioned. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, the plan of Turquoise and Green in complicity with SPÖ is: Get down with the little ones! Our plan is to ask you to check in the next elections.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8195	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8216	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! So, as Mr Kickl sees him here, I can't see it at all. On the contrary: This government has done more for people affected by poverty in the Corona crisis than previously, Mr Kickl. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] It is absolutely impossible to talk about social reduction and the reduction of unemployment benefits, because we are part of this government, and we are not sure to be able to do so. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to talk a little bit about what we have done to prevent exactly what is threatening in such a massive health, employment and economic crisis, namely that people are slipping into poverty. So that this does not happen, we have taken quite a lot of measures: We paid 360 euros for each child. We have paid 400 euros for children who are in minimum security, i.e. children who live in families, where there is a very bad income, a very low income that is potentially affected by poverty, which is in difficult social situations. We paid twice a grant for unemployment benefit, a total of 900 euros. That never happened before, please! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the 2008 economic crisis, when a Social Democratic Chancellor was in power, the Social Democracy in the government, there was no such thing. Social democracy didn't do that. We have done very well to support the people who have become unemployed in this crisis and to ensure that they can continue to afford life. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Muchitsch here speaks of pension reductions. The opposite is the case. We have increased the minimum pension to EUR 1 000, we have also increased the minimum guarantee by EUR 30. Mr Muchitsch is talking about the hackler system we have abolished. Just this week, the data came out: The Gender Pension Gap goes on. If the women received 60 percent of the male pension last year, it was only 56 percent in 2020, because 11 060 men received the hacker pension and three women – 11 000 men, three women. [[Abg. Worm: Bad answer, Mrs. Colleague! ... researched!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I'm sure that's not fair, my colleague. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have made sure that in the future there will be the early starter bonus, which will benefit men and women alike when they start working early. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] This is good social policy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We paid 100 euros of additional school start-up. We tied up a family package of 187 million euros, over 50 million euros in the Family Hard Fund, 12 million euros for single parents who were particularly affected by this crisis. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We've been running taxes, we've prevented delogging. We've been exposed to people losing their apartment if they can't pay the rent. We also put something on it: These days, we will decide 24 million euros for delogger prevention, so that even now the situation cannot occur that people lose their homes because they cannot pay the rent due to Corona – 24 million euros. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have set up the hardness fund, which has allowed a lot of people in EPUs, an individual company, that they do not get into a dramatic situation. In particular, it is also women who are affected by it, for example, nurses. We have set up the NPO Fund, which has supported people in the arts and culture sector in particular, where there are very precarious employment conditions. We have had the short work, it has been mentioned, we have established a training bonus at the AMS, which we have tripled, 180 Euro educational bonus is now available. We have a very ambitious objective, with the Springboard, of bringing 50 000 long-term unemployed back into employment. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] This is a huge programme that is intended to help deal with this crisis in such a way that people get out of long-term unemployment. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] My speaking time is about to end, I do not want to be aware that the President has to remind me of that. The list of things we have done to prevent people in Austria from slipping into poverty would be much longer. That's what we're going to do. Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, so many measures have not been taken in the economic crisis under your Federal Chancellor. To prevent that, that is green policy, that is good social policy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8343	Klubobfrau Meinl-Reisinger has been reported to speak. - Please, the word stands with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8364	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators! I think the debate is very important and very important, and I thank the Social Democracy for the question because this is indeed a very essential question: Who pays for the crisis? It has also been rightly mentioned that I would say once, by all the political groups, but also by my previous speaker, Rendi-Wagner, that there are losers in this crisis, and very many losers, that there are also winners. Simply put, this can be summarized as follows: The crisis will pay the middle class as always, because it always pays everything, the self-employed in our country and the boys. The boys are very much affected by the crisis, I think my colleague Loacker will go into it in detail. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I believe that it is essential – and therefore I also believe that this is a little by now – not to mention tax increases, but to answer the question of how we can achieve sustainable recovery. I am also pleased about the growth figures and the forecast for the coming year, but we know very well that there is now a great deal of consumable consumption, and we have to be able to achieve a sustainable upswing and growth path in Austria, because this growth is essential in order to actually get out of the crisis. I think it is wrong to talk about tax increases now, because just to achieve this growth, it does not need tax increases, but one thing absolutely certain: discharges. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It also needs tax reliefs from the middle class. This has been addressed: The middle layer is massively under pressure. It is under pressure from the crisis, it has already been under pressure, it is under massive pressure by the ECB's low interest rate policy, it comes from real wage losses and rising prices under pressure – inflation has already been addressed. It must be possible for the rise to succeed, through its own work performance, and it must also be possible not only to fight income through its own work, but to build up something and perhaps also children and grandchildren. For this the state must provide framework conditions, but not, as has happened in recent months, paternalistically rule in all areas. That must end, with this sweet poison of the foremouth, of which this Federal Government seems to have drunk a whole pot! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You have announced a discharge, Federal Chancellor. We welcome that. But – and now this is coming very big But – the last discharge has turned out to be a pocket player trick, and the great concern is that this is again with the next tax relief. This is the phenomenon: I'll take it out of the left pocket and give it to you in the right pocket. – You know what I'm talking about: the cold progression. The cold progression is a sluggish tax increase that affects everyone and anyone who pays taxes in Austria. The last tax reform has long been re-used by the effects of cold progression. I would remind you that we all stood here in 2019 and also you kept a taferl in the camera on which the question of the abolition of the cold progression was raised: Yes! - When, if not now, would the right time be? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Yes, we also particularly welcome the fact that there are international initiatives to increase the tax performance of international companies, because that is exactly what concerns SMEs. This is being enslaved, with taxes, with taxes, with fees, with bureaucracy; and the bureaucracy is also making the upturn difficult. This also brings me to the state's payment morale – that was now the subject of the committees again: If the financial office wants something from you, then they are very ratzfitz, then it goes very, very fast, but if you should get something from the financial office, it takes months. That must be done, ladies and gentlemen! A higher payment morale of the State would also be a step towards sustainable discharge of the middle class. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I've already said it: It must end with “cost it what it wants”. – That was the wrong approach. Cost it, or do what is necessary – I would have expected it from a government led by the ÖVP, and not to pour out the tax money pot in accordance with the principle of foundry. They are in particular the boys who If you are not ready to take up reforms at last, you will pay for it, and you have not done so. You have often promised it, and the consolidation of the budget, which you have so attached to the flags, has been achieved, above all by – or only by – the fact that the tax revenue has been scattered because of the really great entrepreneurs and businesses as well as employees in our country, but not because of the great performance of a reform government, as you have actually promised. My appeal: Put people at the centre of your policy and ensure a sustainable upswing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8458	Members of the European Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8479	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! High house! Values Advisors! The title of today's current hour is long, the conclusion in short: Theme missing. In fact, we know from the international comparisons that Austria has better come through the crisis due to the work of this Federal Government – with German Chancellors in short – than very, very many other countries. What has been done exactly has been discussed by the club women as well as by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, and we really do not need to hide an international comparison. But what surprises me is that we have noticed very clearly that for the opposition at the beginning the common position is in the foreground. This has changed significantly, of which nothing can be felt at all, and at the very top the SPÖ mixes with it. From: The direction is right!, I don't feel anything for a long time. Indeed, the direction is not true as far as the common way out of the crisis is concerned, nor is it in relation to the internal common path; for if you observe the real vehemence with which the mayor of the party, the head of state in Burgenland, what is not true in the party, you can only be surprised. If you see the party day and notice that everything sounds like a bit of wonder, I can only say to it: Very brave, congratulations! There are, of course, personal limitations. That's just what it's all about who's doing something, but who's out there: big silence. That is where the Social Democrats agree. I think it is interesting that now, too, the mayor of Burgenland has brought himself to strengthen his economic policy Christian Kern. It is not surprising, however, because Paul Pöchhacker, whom we all remember from the 2017 election campaign, which was for Dirty Campaign, is already there. Doskozil thus strengthens his team with all those who drop the Bundes-SPÖ like a hot ground apple. Today, Christian Kern in the “Kurier” also says something very interesting: “But the SPÖ – sarcastically formulated – has the problem that its intrigues are also diletants, which only increase problems but do not help clarify.” What does that mean? – The SPÖ would have enough to do with itself and could use the remaining, hardly any more noticeable energy together for Austria than to go to short-must-way parties, because we focus on the way forward. The Federal Chancellor explained: We are on the rise, and we, together with you, would like to continue this path. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] No matter which population group, whatever gender, whatever education, any region, for whoever: The more we participate and cooperate, the bigger this upswing, which we all look forward to and in which we are already in the middle of it. And I'll tell you one thing: Class struggle is not in place, work for Austria never.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8530	The honourable Member has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8552	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! – Mrs Schwarz, it is also exciting that you use more time in your speech to let yourself out of the SPÖ than to talk about the answers to the question of who to pay for this crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haubner: You do not talk about what is going on with you. We're worried about you.]] Because one thing is clear: The Corona crisis is not over yet, but the question of who will pay for it, we have to ask this question now. For us, as social democrats and social democrats, there is one thing quite clear: It cannot be the much-complained heroes and heroes of the crisis, the cashier in commerce, the medicaments and nurses, the health care staff or the cleaning and care workers. Nor can it be the women who have already learned a large part of the burden of this crisis and, in addition to the already existing multiple burden, were still responsible for home schooling or the care of family members alone who have trained on their own. Nor can it be the 350 000 children in Austria who are affected by poverty and exclusion, because this corona pandemic has also been appalled by it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Nor can it be those who have become temporary or permanent unemployed due to this crisis. It is already significant that, despite the greatest unemployment in the Second Republic, the turquoise-green government was not prepared to raise the net replacement rate from 55 to 70 percent, thus securing existence and ensuring that these people do not slip into poverty. Instead, the Minister of Labour wants to intensify the pressure on job-seekers. Instead of combating precarious working conditions, instead of fighting low wages, you fight unemployment, and this is really inconceivable in this unemployment crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] This crisis has taken a lot from all of us, or we say, of almost all, because for a few – for those who can judge themselves – the crisis has still borne great fruit. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] According to the “trend” range list, the ten richest Austrians alone were able to increase their assets by 30 percent in the Corona year. Managerships have also increased considerably. On average, a board of directors in an ATX company collects 1.9 million euros, which is the 57-fold of an average income in Austria. This is really a rupture that has been even more pronounced. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That is, while one in this crisis had to tighten the belt tighter, as it is always called in neoliberal Jargon, while most have been immersed by this crisis with many cuts, and some still do not know how to pay the rent at the end of the month, fill the refrigerator or pay the rate for the toothpaste, there are few who have made profits on the other side of this crisis. [[Abg. The trade unionists!]] This miscarriage, ladies and gentlemen, is not portable for us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: The red unionists! These are the...!]] That is why the answer to the question of who should pay for this crisis must be quite clear. It cannot be alone those who already pay the lion's share of taxes. We urgently need millionaire taxes, we need inheritance and gift taxes on millions of heritage, and we finally need a fair and fair contribution from large online companies such as Amazon and Co, which have made immeasurable and incomprehensible profits from this crisis. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] So, Federal Chancellor, when, if not now, is the right time to implement a fair and solidary contribution by the rich and online corporations for all? Quit your turquoise client policy and act in the sense of people and not in the sense of the profits of your donors! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8677	Mr Fuchs is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The word stands with him. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8698	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! There is no doubt that the Corona crisis has torn a huge hole in the state budget, and at the latest after the end of the pandemic, we will have to ask ourselves the question: Who will pay all this? The demands of Mr Bundeskanzler, but also of Mr Finanzminister, that the way out of the crisis without tax increases is not to be trusted, and I am going to support this with an example. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The first part of the much praised eco-social tax reform with a massive increase in the NOVA by 400 million euros is the first taste of a threatening savings package hidden under the coat of climate protection. This NOVA increase concerns in particular motor vehicles used by small businesses and families. These small businesses and families are the first victims of your eco-social tax reform, Mr. Bundeskanzler, who should be referred to as eco-social tax reform! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you look at the structure and resilience plan that we have recently discussed here, you also know who the next victims of your eco-social tax reform are: all drivers, especially the commuters, but also the entrepreneurs. The Federal Government defines this with the following keywords: Ecologisation and increase the reliability of the shuttle fee, ecologisation of the service car privilege, pricing of CO2 emissions outside of the emissions trading, further measures against fuel tourism and so on. – Ecologisation means nothing but tax increase. These tax increases are to enter into force in the first quarter of next year. Mr. Federal Chancellor, you have noticed that you have not taken the eco-social tax reform into your mouth at the beginning of the debate. Your legislative period so enthusiastically propagated? And because many have already forgotten: The black and green coalition has already abolished the hacker scheme. The Federal Government has shown its true non-social face – but this fits well with the eco-social tax reform. Those They have worked particularly long and hard, they are also savings package victims of this federal government. But the statements of Minister of Labour Kocher promise nothing good – I may briefly quote –: "The tax and tax system makes part-time attractive. ‘One would have to make part-time less attractive. This required a major reform of the tax and social system.” At the end of the day, this can only mean higher taxation for low-earners, and because of the progressive tax system, of course, the middle class will also be reduced. The first payers for the Corona crisis are already determined: Long-term unemployed, small businesses, families, hackers pensioners and part-time workers, but also the hard-working savers. Due to artificially low interest rates at simultaneously higher and rising inflation rates, savers will be secretly expropriated to an even greater extent in the future than they have so far. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We can already be excited who will be the next victims of your eco-social tax reform, Mr. Federal Chancellor! At the end still towards Clubobfrau Rendi-Wagner and colleagues Muchitsch: If you say again and again that many of your assets want to make their contribution, I have to say: Ask those who always say they want to make a higher contribution to why they are fleeing their assets in private foundations! Why do they employ an Armada of lawyers and tax advisors so that they pay as few taxes as possible? A final sentence about the Federal Chancellor – if you say time and again, we invest in the digitization of the administration –: We have recently discussed two reports on the Federal Finance Court and on the exchange in international tax matters in the Court of Auditors, and the IT state of the Ministry of Finance has been strongly criticised. That means that you should finally start investing in the IT of the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8784	Mr Koza is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8805	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate, who really has to bear the costs of the crisis, is one that is not only in Austria – long ago not only in Austria! It is clear that – but in Europe as a whole and in the meantime also globally in all the countries of the world – the packages – support packages, social packages – have been held against this crisis, because, of course, the states everywhere have considerably higher public debt than they had before the crisis. Of course, Austria is no different. The current government debt is the highest in the Second Republic, about 87 percent of GDP – that is a lot, but that is also good and right, for a very simple reason: this shows that we have done something and that, fortunately, we have a functioning social state with the corresponding automatic stabilizers. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It was not necessary for us to link additional packages for the unemployed as in the United States, because we have unemployment insurance. In this crisis, of course, we have had lower tax revenues away from the higher expenditure on social benefits. Of course. 10 billion euros less taxes in the crisis, that's not nothing, that's 2.5 percent of GDP, which of course makes itself felt. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Fortunately – and this is true worldwide, Europe-wide – the debate is about who has to bear the burden of the crisis and how the tax systems of the future are to look forward to a shift in the meantime, and one can only be grateful that in the US there is currently a president who takes it significantly more seriously with distribution and with tax justice than its predecessor. Recently, 130 states have agreed that they want to set the minimum corporate tax rate by 15 percent, so that the ruinous tax competition down, which has been increasingly starved of our social systems for many decades, has made it harder to finance it, and this is extremely welcome. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Who pays for the crisis? – Yes, it must not pay those who have already been affected in the crisis: not the unemployed, not the workers, that is clear, we have always said that. That is why we must also learn from the last crisis, from the mistakes of the last crisis, and one of the biggest mistakes of the last crisis was that far too early the austerity policy has been used, that in the middle of the crisis, when a slow upturn was seen, a fiscal pact here in this House – and thus a debt brake in law – has been decided and thus, in reality, the gentle economic upturn has been strangled. At that time, there has been a massive increase in long-term unemployment and unemployment as a whole, from which we have not recovered to this day and which we have also inherited in addition to the Corona crisis. An essential lesson is therefore: to continue investing, to invest further in the way of the crisis, in an ecological future, in a social future, but not in a grey past. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Yes, if the recovery is not enough alone, if the decline in unemployment and the additional tax revenue from this decline and from the upturn are not enough to reduce the debt level, so that the debt can be clearly attributed, then we will have to really think about how we can deal with these debts. In any case, it is clear to us that Vice-chanc Kogler has said this often enough – even then there can be no savings packages at the expense of the social state, at the expense of a social state, which has led us successfully through this crisis, but then it will be so that those who have the broadest shoulders also have to bear the corresponding burdens, and then of course we will also have to talk about property-related taxes! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Since it has been mentioned briefly that in the Corona crisis, the shear between the poor and the empire has increased once again: Ladies and gentlemen, it has not been since the Corona crisis, it has been doing this for 30 to 40 years from year to year. And co-responsible for, among other things, the abolition of property tax in the 1990s, the introduction of a private funding system, the expiry of inheritance tax in 2008 and the fact that the basic tax has remained a bagatell tax until today. Let us talk about distribution justice – then we also talk about why this distribution justice has been trampled on in the last decades! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8895	The last speaker I am calling for is Mr Loacker. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8917	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! You actually have to take it with humor: Now the SPÖ, who was never too big a debt mountain, comes and asks: Who pays for the crisis? You always had everything you wanted. [[towards SPÖ]] Every year more than 20 billion euros flow into the pension system, the hole continues from year to year, but that has always been yours, and now you ask: Who pays for the crisis? – Yes, no one other than those who always pay everything you have distributed to gifts: the middle class! [[I would like to congratulate the NEOS and representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The middle class always pays! The big ones, the really rich, are fine out there, because when politics is turning on the control screw, then the foundation has its seat in Monaco faster than you can say: friendship, comrade!. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] The small earners are also fine, because they are already exempt from the wage tax, are exempt from unemployment insurance and are still paid back social security contributions, but the middle class always pays! If today a small individual entrepreneur or an employee or a worker generates more than 31,000 euros a year, then the Republic will access with a 42 percent limit rate as if it were a great earner. They treat the decent little people like great earners and take them in the bag without shame. And if such a skilled worker receives 100 euros of salary increase, then after deduction of social security and tax, he will not even remain 50 euros net. This is the result after 75 years of social partners and after 35 years of EIA economic policy: The middle class always pays! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] All the parties represented here promised to abolish the cold progression in the campaign. The cold progression does not hit the super-rich that tax their capital income with a flat tax of 27.5 percent. Nor does it affect the little ones who are exempt from the wage tax anyway, but it meets the fully employed workers and employees, the self-employed who carry the euro home in the sweat of their faces. Of every increase in the profits of the entrepreneur and of every KV increase, the Republic takes more than half of it, starting at an annual income of 31,000 euros, and I repeat it: The middle class always pays! In this situation, the SPÖ is now bringing forward proposals for new taxes. – You didn’t understand what was happening right now – inheritance tax, property tax, property tax, rich tax, don’t ask me! –: [[towards SPÖ]] If real estate and housing prices develop as much as they have in recent years, and they will, because the ECB is depleting the money as nothing, then soon every small house in Salzburg, Innsbruck or the Rhine Valley will be worth more than 1 million euros, and the small employees who have worked out a little effortlessly are the rich you want to tax, and that is again the middle class who always pays. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This middle class cannot escape the access of the state, it cannot, it can only withdraw. If you look closely, you see this retreat, that's already happening. More and more people withdraw and no longer participate in the game. On the one hand, this shows that we have a record of undeclared work at this stage, but on the other hand, we also see that young people who are at the beginning of their careers say they actually do not want to work full-time, they prefer to work part-time. It is also clear that full-time and overtime are not retiring if the State accesses more than half of the additional benefit. That's not fair! That's what people feel, even if they haven't calculated it centuly, and then it doesn't matter how much money companies put on the table. It is becoming increasingly difficult to find skilled workers, because they are no longer able to make more efforts because they are not paid out. People don't carry that anymore. The middle class, who always pays, no longer carries it. Come on. So you don't have ideas for extra taxes! The State takes enough taxes. Finally, take your hands out of citizens' pockets! Let us take off the cold progression together and lower the taxes for the earners!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8998	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and the other members of the Government. [[10:19:49]] Objections against the agenda in accordance with § 50 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9022	We now come to the debate on the objections to the Belakovich agenda on the presentation of item 5 as item 1. Mrs Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I can give her the word. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9047	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! We have called for this objection debate today because there was no agreement on the agenda in the President. It is true that all of us in this country are shaken by a really tragic murder case that happened in Austria a week and a half ago. However, the House has not given any meaning to this. There were no statements by the Federal Chancellor or the Minister of Justice about it, one simply went to the agenda after giving any statements. We find this to be bad and disgraceful, in a country like Austria it must not be. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For us, it was already clear in the President that we wanted to have a outline. Today, there is a request from our Judge Harald Stefan, who is concerned that there should be a cause for difficulty in the StGB if the guest law is misused – which should actually be a matter of course. In view of the current events, we have also heard it in the media, all – from SPÖ to Greens to ÖVP – were appalled why the suspected perpetrators, the suspected murderers who first put a young girl under drugs, abused it and then killed it, were in the country at all. Three of these four people should have been postponed long ago because they were severely criminal. The fourth – this is a special Gustopückerl – came to Austria only in April 2021 when Austria was in the lockdown. When everyone who wanted to leave this country or return from a holiday trip, everyone who wanted to go abroad to Austria, had to carry out heavy border controls, the fourth suspected perpetrator came to the country, ladies and gentlemen. That is exactly what can't be, please, and that's why we wanted this subject to be discussed right at the beginning. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There was no agreement in the Presidential, not even the touch of a constituency. From the Greens, the request was that one should distance one from an objection debate, because the EAG, the Renewable Development Act, is such an essential, important issue. After over a year of it, one could not agree – for it should have been in power for a year – one now believes that this is the big throw and one can cover everything with it. – No, ladies and gentlemen, you can’t cover everything! The reality is really a sad one and one that shakes us all. If I think back on how this happened in the judicial committee, I have to tell you: It was true that Mr Stefan's request that there could be a simpler reason to postpone criminal asylum seekers has only been accepted by the Freedom Party. They all voted against. All your rallys, all your interviews are not worth giving if you vote differently here, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the real scandal that you wonder outwards that you are demanding that it be postponed, but then when it comes to concrete measures, when it comes to implementing legislative changes in such a way that criminals, immediately after they have become criminal for the first time, can be postponed and no longer a second, a third, a fourth, and an additional rape, up to a bestial murder, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to deciding on a change of law here, then you are all gone, then you are all voting against it. That's unreasonable and scandalous! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's why, my. Ladies and gentlemen, we wanted to change the agenda. I'll call you back to mind what happened here: A 13-year-old girl is put under drugs, is victim of mass rape, is killed, and then she is put away – like a piece of trash. Ladies and gentlemen, I say to you: Waste is the ones that have done this, and we don't need these people in our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9119	The honourable Member is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9140	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Perhaps I can explain to the spectators what debate we are having here: We have a debate on whether we are discussing the proposals of the Ministry of the Environment before the submissions by the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of the Interior. We are discussing a time difference of about 90 minutes, because the debate on the EAG will not take longer. [[Abg. Kickl: Then it would have been sausage! Then you'd have been able to join!]] We have already held some pointless debates here in the House, but this is a very special one, and this is actually a task of the FPÖ, I would like to make it clear to you once again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] In reality, this is probably a distraction, because you have a few internal problems at present. [[Call the FPÖ:Ah like that?- Oh, my God!]] I would like to ask Mr Hafenecker at this point the very best, I would like to maintain this, but we must explain to the audience what happened in the Ibiza Investigation Committee last week. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Worm]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deimek and Rauch]] Mr Hafenecker is doing a PCR test, that is right and good. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Shame! Shame! Mr President. On the matter!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] Mr. Kobenecker then gets his test results on Friday, and it is not okay that Mr. Hafenecker does not immediately know that he has been tested positively, but only three days later. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Shame!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We demand this from all citizens in Austria, but Mr Hafenecker does not do it. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Hypocrite!]] [[Abg. Steger: Shame what you are doing!]] The second major criticism is: We demand from all Austrians in many areas of life that they comply with the 3G rule: either healed, vaccinated or tested. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] It's okay if Mr. Hafenecker doesn't want to be vaccinated, we don't have a vaccination force in Austria, but he's got to get at least a test result before he's in the committee. At least that wasn't all right! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: Mr President, turn off the micro. Take away the floor! That's not the matter!]] Thirdly, The fact that we are discussing the EAG at the beginning of the plenary session is very important and good, it is a century law. [[Abg. Deimek:... the finances of Lower Austria!]] In recent weeks and months, intensive negotiations have been held, and I would like to say a great thank you at this point to the Minister responsible, the State Secretary and the Energy Speaker responsible. I can also say a warm thanks to the Social Democracy that this law is being carried along, which brings the two-thirds majority, we know. In conclusion, however: A debate on whether we are discussing a bill one hour before or after it is really a task of the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9333	Mr Schnedlitz spoke on business. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9359	Mr President. I am surprised that this speech, which had absolutely nothing to do with this debate, did not call for it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I am also allowed to hold, and I must correct this speech, that we now know – and this is also important – that Mr Hafenecker has a CT value of 34 – 33,89 exactly – and that the laboratory results are available to us, I brought it. In other words, it can be ruled out that colleagues Hafenecker assumed a cluster or a contagion. So you don't have to feel insecure here in the house, no matter what the political group. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I would also point out, Mr President, that, as far as the dignity of the House is concerned, it would be wiser to say and invent Members from the speaker's mouth – and this must really be broken down on the tongue – if some other Member who has been dealing with detection work with the ÖVP in the last few weeks and months would have had some infectious disease that he does not have. [[Abg. Prince: What does this have to do with the Rules of Procedure?Unknown term type: "%s".?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Baumgartner.]] Ladies and gentlemen, from this speaker's mouth, that has nothing to do with the dignity of this House! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That is disgraceful and absolutely condemnable! Mr President, that is why I can only give you the suggestion that if, first of all, a speaker is spoken about health data from other Members, and if, second, an incorrect and false claim is made that another Member would have an infectious disease, he would be contagious to others. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: He's positive!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hanger and Mr Salzmann.]] – I don't have to let this happen to any Members! Where are we, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call at the ÖVP: This is really an artificial excitement!]] Mr President, in conclusion, because you have also said that the report to Parliament would have been too late I am not doing a disease-shaming – yes, exactly, Mr Commissioner, now we are at the point – as you are. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Now we're at the point!]] [[Abg. Deimek: This is a sourry!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] I have here an email from the ÖVP club director, which shows how you have dealt with an infection of a carrying employee in the U committee, from 29.10.2020. [[Abg. Hanger: What are you talking about?]] Your staff had, I quote the ÖVP club director – I don't say the name because we don't break out any diseases of individuals here – on Friday symptoms; [[Abg. Michael Hammer: You are superior! That's right!]] Mr Hafenecker, by the way, only on Saturday.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9544	Mr Schnedlitz, now you had long enough time - - – moment! [[Abg. Kickl: No, no, no!]] [[Abg. Deimek: This is a sourry! It's a piggy!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Lausch and Mr Steger.]] You had long enough time to speak to the Rules of Procedure. That had nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure. Come on. Please accept the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9625	Mr President, the suggestion is that we should not be concerned, Mr President. Col. Hafenecker had symptoms on Saturday and reported them on Monday. [[Call to the ÖVP: It doesn't make it better!]] - Don't worry, I'll get to the point. The ÖVP college had symptoms on Friday and the other clubs were on Thursday – a week later! – informed. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, the suggestion: Before the ÖVP comes along and claims to be guilty of infectious diseases from other mandates, please be careful, Mr President of the Parliament, to inform you at least as quickly as the Freedom Party has done before you try to cover your own outrages here!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9679	Is there any further mention of the Rules of Procedure? – Mr Haubner, on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9704	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This was already very revealing, Mr Schnedlitz, because it was not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[Call the FPÖ:But!]] [[Abg. Deimek: Was the hanger to the Rules of Procedure?]] That was a contribution to the defence of Mr. Hafenecker. [[Call the FPÖ:Hello?- Oh, my God!]] I would like to come back to that again. [[Abg. Deimek: This is a party president and not a parliamentarian!]] [[Mr Kickl and Mr Rauch.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] . I also let colleagues Schnedlitz speak out, so I would expect you to do so, ladies and gentlemen, too. [[Call at the FPÖ:You have to make your own stand and morale...!]] On the Rules of Procedure: Point one, Mr Hanger made a speech on the subject, and, point two, he pointed out that it should be the use of the House to comply with the security provisions. That's what I'd expect, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9816	Is there any further contribution to the Rules of Procedure? – On the Rules of Procedure, Mr Klubobmann Kickl, please. [[Abg. Kickl's got that hand.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9843	Mr President. It is a clear fact that there has been talk here on a subject which is not the subject of the ongoing debate. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: It's not true!]] This has been done here by Mr Hanger, anyway a questionable political character. [[Call the ÖVP:Genau! That's what the right one says!]] [[Complaints and bravails in the FPÖ as well as advocacy of the Abg. Loacker.]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] And as President, it is absolutely up to you what is being done in the sector of the Austrian People's Party, past the habits of this House. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: He said anyway that the objection debate is a fool!]] They shall bear a responsibility in this office. Come on. You also have this responsibility to the ÖVP sector in this house, otherwise you should clear the place up there! [[We welcome the FPÖ as well as Mr Loacker and Mr Shetty.]] [[Abg. Wöger has that Hand.]] And something else--
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9914	Mr Wöginger, on the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Kickl: And something else!]] - You're done. If you have anything to say on the Rules of Procedure, please say it to the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Kickl: I am speaking on the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Abg. Deimek: This is the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Abg. Schnedlitz: That was also to the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] You've had a long enough time. Especially you are always in a very special way - - - - Calm down! [[Abg. Kickl: I am speaking here on the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ: This is embarrassing!]] I'll interrupt the meeting until you calm down again. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Vogluwer.]] You can control your temperament and, if you have calmed down, you may continue, Mr. Klubobmann Kickl.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e10059	I'll start the meeting again. Mr. Klubobmann Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e10083	Mr President. That only fits into the picture of your presidency and it confirms everything I said before. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Something else is important: As President of the National Council, you have attacked Members of the Portecker public. [[Call the ÖVP: Rules of Procedure!]] They have accused him of having made a report to Parliament too late. [[Abg. Hear: That's right!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] You know that this message is not mandatory and mandatory at all. They know that Hafenecker has informed the mandates concerned. [[Intervocations at FPÖ and ÖVP.]] And now I ask you, Mr National Council President: What evidence do you have to present to the public by Mr Hafenecker as a super-preacher at the beginning of a chain of infection? [[Abg. Steger: None!]] What evidence do you have for this accusation? – I want to know about you now! [[Abg. Smoking: None!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e10219	Are you done with your speech on the Rules of Procedure? [[Abg. Kickl: I want an answer from you!]] If you are done, then Mr Klubobmann Wöginger will speak on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e10267	Mr President. I just want to hold on to one thing: We actually used to plow the use here in the house from the beginning, if one - - can you listen? [[Abg. Smoking: Who you always broke, Mr. Klubobmann!]] [[Abg. Lausch: These are your uses!]] It is unbearable how the liberals act here in this House!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e10325	Mr Amesbauer, please calm down at last. We can discuss very well. Mr Klubobmann Wöginger is speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e10349	Is it too much to listen to? . We had the first Member of Parliament to be infected with Corona, and it was actually perfectly logical for me to inform all clubs in the shortest way – it was during a parliamentary session. At my colleague Hafenecker, after this dubious nocturn of the committee of inquiry - - colleague Hafenecker apparently got the message on Friday morning that he had been tested positively on Corona. [[Abg. Amesbauer: And what did you do yesterday?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Kickl: You weren't there!]] [[Abg. Stefan: You weren't there!]] We as a club of the Austrian People's Party were informed about this on Monday morning. [[Interlocutors Kickl and Steger.]] Don't be angry with me, but where is the problem – even if you are not obliged to do so, Mr Klubobmann Kickl – if you just pick up the phone and inform the clubs that a colleague sitting in committees is infected with Corona? Is it not a minimum level of collegiality, even beyond the party boundaries, that one is informed about it?
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e10448	Is there any further mention of the Rules of Procedure? - That's not the case. Mr Schnedlitz has now been mentioned. I would really ask you to come back from the trap and not scratch permanently on the dignity of the house. [[Call the FPÖ: That says the right one!]] [[Abg. Kickl: You and the dignity of the house, that doesn't fit together!]] [[Call:This is not an important issue.]] [[Abg. Smoking: You say that, Mr President?- Oh, my God!]] I think it's clear that the spectators also need a clear picture. I think the call is neither caught by the microphone nor noticed by the camera. I would really ask you to continue the discussion accordingly. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Mr Schnedlitz is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e10521	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thanks to the Austrian People's Party, the spectators at home can take a picture of how you work, how you act and how honestly you deal with it. It's just a matter of not reporting on the next working day, from Friday to Monday. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Pfurtscheller and Mr Wöginger.]] Even ÖVP reports a week later. Dear ladies and gentlemen at home, take yourself a picture! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And exactly this coverage, this microphone turning off in unloving opposition words and so on, that's the style of the ÖVP also in connection with the terrible murder case of Leonie. Today it is about at least having a single item on the agenda that deals with this issue, which affects us that if someone becomes criminal and abuses the right to host, we have a hand to protect our women and girls. What to do You with this, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP? . They bury it somewhere in the middle of the agenda, because what the EIA does not talk about is apparently not happening. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now tell you why You do this and you don't want to talk about it: One of the perpetrators came with the migration current in 2015. Shortly before that, the consistent chancellor says in brief – and you all know his quote as Minister of Integration: We need more welcome culture in Austria. – Have come to have You've rolled out these violent offenders and perpetrators and the red carpet. That's why you don't want to talk about it. [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] A second alleged perpetrator came two months ago – as Mrs Belakovich has already said – while your Minister of the Interior held the Austrians, the righteous citizens who kept honest citizens in the lockdown. The criminals and violent perpetrators come across the border, but the Austrian, who has not yet eaten anything of his life, must not make cross-border crossing so easy because you are now persecuting the citizens instead of the offenders. That is precisely the reason – and the wrong situation – why you do not want to discuss this at the beginning of this session and we are now holding this debate. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, not only do you attract the asylumers like a magnet by living this welcome culture of the Austrian People's Party – even if you always claim something different – but you also prevent deportations – yes, you and your Minister of the Interior! While every Austrian has to be tested, even the children, so that they can go to school, go to the inn, go to the outdoor swimming pool, in an internal paper from the Ministry of the Interior – I am here – the following question: Repeatedly refuse to allow prisoners – we're not talking about asylumers now, we're talking about those who're already in prison – a corona test, now we can't fly them home. The answer of the Minister of the Interior is: Well, to a test, we can't force the objectors to carry out such a test is an intervention into physical integrity. - Quote. [[Abg. Kickl: Incredible! Incredible!]] There are these rights on the part of the ÖVP, in the case of the violent perpetrators, in the case of the illegals, but you do not care about our children and the population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kassinger:... our children...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the wrong situation and the reason why you do not want to discuss this item at the beginning of the agenda today. No one in this country can hear more your objections, your announcements, your PR policy, your PR show – nobody! Only our free way and our freedom of speech are quite clear – we call it by name here, even if the Austrian People's Party does not want to hear it! –: If someone comes to us and demands protection and threatens the protection of our women and girls, then he immediately has to be brought back out of the country, and if there is no liner, then just with the Hercules, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In all clarity: No asylum industry, no international treaties, no Austrian People's Party excuses, no interior ministers must prevent there from being protection and security for our people, for our women and children in this country! At the end of the day, I can give you a quote from a mother of a murdered girl, namely the murdered 16-year-old Manuela, who, by the way, was in retrospect, after the murder of the honest people who brought you into the country. She says to the “curer” in connection with the murder of Leonie: At the “new murder one sees that politics” – this means you, ladies and gentlemen of the People’s Party! – “I’ve announced a lot, but” does not implement anything. And then we're going to go on: “When it comes to asylum seekers, human rights are always at stake. What about the human right to life? ... the life of our daughters?”
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e10617	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e10639	I think the debate has shown how misguided sometimes debates in this House are going on. If one considers the close relationship between the former favorite coalition from Turquoise and FPÖ, one must say: [[Abg. Amesbauer: Thank God!]] Good thing that's over! I hope that the next coalition will soon be over, so that reasonable policies can be made in this country again, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I might have a suggestion, Mr President: I did not want to interfere in the Rules of Procedure, but perhaps we could consider a risk allowance for Mr Bernhard's seat. I think that would make sense if Mr Amesbauer went back next to him. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda is also here to present what is happening in debates, which is important here. I would like to draw your attention once again to what is particularly important to us as Social Democrats in these two days: We are still in the situation – and it will happen! – that the Federal Government will legalize social dumping today or tomorrow – this is something we need to discuss – that pensions will be shortened, that the unemployed will be urged to see the Minister of Labour as representatives of entrepreneurs and not the people who have to go to work and work, and that especially in Austria the richest ones will become richer and richer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] The ten richest ones have increased by 30 percent and a million people have less money. These are the topics that interest people in the country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Austria has developed into a paradise for super rich, we want to talk about it. We also want to talk about what we need to do about it, and this is relatively clear: It needs a reduction in wage and income tax, it needs a solidarity levy for millionaires, it needs a gift and inheritance tax for the super-rich, for millions of donations, for millions of heirs. These are the things that we should discuss today, and that corresponds to the agenda, which is why we will not accept these objections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e10706	Member of the European Parliament is entitled to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e10728	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr. State Secretary! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear Seers! It's already remarkable: The FPÖ uses an objection debate to discharge racist riots and expects a call on the matter when the case is addressed to Hafenecker. [[Abg. Kickl: What?]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They really manage to crawl under every limbolate. It's really a pretty absurd picture that you're delivering today. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: What's up there... Presidency?- Oh, my God!]] But maybe then briefly to the debate itself: The FPÖ is not satisfied with the agenda. It could be said that this is understandable, that each group has its priorities elsewhere, but it seems to me a little bit like this joke from the bus, which is 50 meters wide and 2 meters long, because everyone wants to sit in the first row. This debate, especially in this case, where the item on the agenda you are saying is taking place immediately after the first, is already a little far-reaching. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] They sit in the second row on the bus and want to get into the first. We have 30 agenda items, we sit until late in the evening, and you have nothing else to do but stop with this story. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, but then it could be yours!]] [[Abg. Kickl: “With this story”?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] What it will bring has already been said by Mr Hanger, namely, 90 minutes of delay in an issue that is really, really important, namely a century law, a law that will change Austria, a law that will shape the future: the law on the expansion of renewable energy. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] With this package, we will be able to produce 100 percent renewable electricity in Austria in ten years. This will help us to make it easier for citizens to generate electricity themselves. We manage to decarbonize the industry – the heavy industry, the steel industry – by producing renewable hydrogen. We thus make the tanking at e-charge stations as easy as at classic gas stations. All this is finally there. For months they have demanded that we be faster, they have criticized the over-negotiation of the EAG. Colleagues Kassinger I remember very well: Where's the EAG? Why do you need so long? - Yes, because everyone was negotiating. This is about the fact that we have tried to bring three parties to a table and to develop a common position. Your contribution to the EAG is also a delay, but without any benefit for the EAG itself, but just a delay by 90 minutes, and then you vote against it. [[Interlocutory calls from Members of the House of Representatives of Kassinger and Rauch.]] Which is strange: You are otherwise in terms of climate protection beyond all lip knowledge and you know that you don't like it much and that the future and future generations in Austria are pretty much in your mind. [[Abg. Kassinger: That's a premise! This is a typical submission...!]] In expanding the renewables, however, you have always claimed that it would be so important, and then the law comes to the vote of all the political groups – and you are against it again, and the only contribution is then a delay. So that's quite disappointing, and, I think, it's self-judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e10880	Member Stefan has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e10901	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, we can remember it after 2. November of last year, after the terrible terrorist attack, a great verbal activity was announced: We will now deal with the fight against terrorism! We need to change laws now! We finally have to do something so that something like that never happens again! . We know that this was actually a nonsense from the very beginning, because, in order to prevent this terrorist attack, it would not have needed any modified laws, but because it came to this attack, as we know, essentially due to the failure of the authorities within the Ministry of the Interior. We remember that the Slovaks had already told us that a convicted young man who had been sentenced to terror tried to buy ammunition – and nothing has happened, it has come to this terrorist attack. So that means that the only announcement that we need legislative changes was nonsense – but it was sold big. It was announced that we are now making a anti-terrorism law, we are gathering a number of agenda items from the Constitutional Committee – whose negotiating objects are usually the first on the agenda; so much to Usances; that is agreed in itself – and yet other very important issues have been summarized here, because one wants to deal with this very important issue of the fight against terrorism here in particular. But it seems that the government parties themselves are not sure that they are doing something about it. They are apparently convinced that they only make show legislation here, and now they want to hide it again. First they make the great announcement and then they want to hide it again, and so we should debate it today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now let's look at what's going to be done like this: On the one hand, Islam law is being reformed. We have already criticized the Islam Law from the very beginning and have said that it is a toothless tiger, which is largely impossible to implement. What's going on now? – Now, again, foreign funding is banned. That's what she used to be! What is really important in this context, for example, is the circumvention of foundations, but is not prohibited. They are still allowed – because the foundation is domestic, that is domestic funding. Where the money comes from, however, is unfortunately not comprehensible. With legal means, it is not really possible to determine where the money comes from at a foundation. So it is still possible. That means we're doing show legislation here, and you apparently don't want to debate that at the beginning, and - that's clear - you're moving it backwards, even though it's your big bill package. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The same issue meets us in criminal law. We are now suddenly introducing a source of difficulty: religiously motivated extremist approach. – Yes, that sounds wonderful, but what that means no one knows at first, and second, that is already the law, for it is probably already included among “especially objectionable reasons”. There's already that! - That means we're making show legislation. We're doing something so you can now say we've done something. We're creating a new criminal record. It is now suddenly created here the “religiously motivated extremist connection”. There's already that! There is already the “unional connection. ” After all, what is a religiously motivated extremist connection – which a religious state wants – other than anti-state? It seems to be a fundamental rejection of our basic values. That's what we've got! That means we're making show here. [[Abg. Kassinger: (in the direction of ÖVP pointing) Those who make...!]] But when we said quite clearly by the FPÖ: So, however, we want there to be a cause for difficulty in criminal law if you commit crimes here using the right of asylum!, then it was completely rejected. The Greens say: This is the worst racism, because that can only be strangers! – But it is not about someone doing something here with a foreign citizenship, but about doing something using a certain situation – and it is very possible to punish it more strongly, and it would also be important to do so in the light of what is happening. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This kind of process is happening in the ongoing band. Whether this is in Würzburg or in the Danube City or in Wiener Neustadt, it is unfortunately happening at the ongoing band that, taking advantage of the protection that we provide here with all the financial and other possibilities, then our people – most of them women and girls – are quite, very badly attacked. This must also lead to a source of difficulty – and we wanted to debate this here, in a very prominent position in the first place. You did not want it, and I also understand why: because you did not want to show how weak you are on this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e10966	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e10987	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I have, in principle, very pragmatic access to agendas. The importance of the question of whether one is discussed first or the other, I think it is relative. In essence, it is about what is contained in these laws and whether one can really take measures that improve something. In this respect, Mr Stefan has said something right, namely that the Federal Government, with what it sells today as an anti-terrorist package, is mainly a symbolist policy. There are also a few things in that which I think are useful, but we will still debate this later, and I do not want to stop for long now. However, the FPÖ now wants to discuss what can be done better, so that something like that no longer happens, especially because of this ominous murder of a 13-year-old by four asylum seekers. Mr Stefan, I am not sure whether what you are proposing will make it better, because in this case I would not be able to write in a particular reason for difficulty. I am convinced that we need to see that asylum procedures are dealt with much faster. That is to say, it takes the appropriate means, it needs the appropriate deadlines, and I am also convinced that someone who commits such a repulsive murder should at least not be protected in Austria anymore. I really don't really care if there's a particular reason for this. I believe that people who commit acts of this kind should be postponed as soon as possible. That's where you have to put. There must be the possibility that these deportations will happen. We could discuss such a thing! Unfortunately, this is not on the agenda – you can also criticize it. The fact is: We are now discussing first of all about the EAG and then about symbolic changes as they happen to the Islam law. Let's just do it now! We will not join the objections to the agenda either.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e11024	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the objections concerning the presentation of item 5 of the agenda. I would first like to ask the political groups whether we can vote immediately. As this is the case, I shall vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to take account of these objections to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, rejected. The agenda for this meeting, which was communicated in writing, remains valid. [[10:57:25]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e11063	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for a brief debate on the reply to the question 5760/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e11371	Before entering the agenda, I can inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to have a brief debate on the reply 5760/AB to Question 5807/J by Mr Mag. Mr Hauser, colleagues and colleagues on the “Traging of Masks in Education” to be held by the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Research. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e11392	The debate on points 1 and 2, 3 to 7, 9 to 13, 14 to 16, 17 and 18, 19 to 23 and 24 and 25 of the agenda is proposed. Are there any objections? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e11414	An agreement was reached between the members of the Presidential Conference on the duration of the debates. We have a day block time of 9.5 “Vienna hours”, and therefore the speaking times are distributed as follows: ÖVP 185, SPÖ 128, FPÖ 105, Green 95 and NEOS 76 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, 38 minutes. In addition, their speaking time is limited to 5 minutes per debate. I shall now proceed to the vote. If you agree to this proposal, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is unanimously accepted. Let's go into the agenda. [[10:59:09]] 1. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (733 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act establishing a federal law on the extension of energy from renewable sources (Renewable Extension Act (EAG) and the 2012 Eco electricity Act, the 2010 Electricity Economic and Organisation Act, the 2011 Gas Economic Act, the Energy Control Act 2012, the Federal Act establishing uniform standards for infrastructure building for alternative fuels, the Heat and Refrigeration Act, the Strong Stream Road Law 1968 and the Federal Act on Electrical Management Systems, which does not cover two or more federal states (Renewable Extension Act package – EAG package) (982 d.b.) 2. Point Report and request of the Committee on Economic, Industrial and Energy on the draft federal law amending the Environmental Promotion Act (983 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e11474	We come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I can warmly welcome Mrs Bundesminister Geessler. Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. The word stands with him. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e11504	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, who have been watching us today and waiting so long for this day! For 200 years, we've been doing the same thing: If we produce something when we move on, when we heat our homes, we need a device to put oil, gas or coal into it, and in the end a little energy comes out, but there is also a lot of dirt, dust, poverty and CO2 emissions. This is our fossil operating system. We have improved the method over the last 200 years, made it more efficient, but in principle it has remained the same. We are presented with the invoice for these last 200 years. Let's just look at what's happened in the last two weeks: In Canada the people have become themselves felt in British Columbia at almost 50 degrees in the shadow, as if they had been put in an oven and had forgotten to push the button. People have died, animals have died, forests have been burned down, houses have been destroyed, whole villages have been destroyed by fire. Just last week, a Tornado has torn a stone's throw from the Austrian border in the Czech Republic a 26-kilometer snow through the country. Wind speeds of up to 400 kilometers per hour have destroyed 180 houses and cost six lives. And even without Tornado – we have experienced it – there were hail storms in Upper Austria, as they have never been, which have almost been like air attacks and have destroyed entire crops with record damage. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] The good news is: Today we do something about it. Today, we decide to create a clean operating system for our country, a new energy supply for our country, and with this package, with this renewable development law package, we are launching the biggest revolution since the industrial revolution: the green energy revolution. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP]] By 2030 we stop using energy only too much, then we need energy, we only use energy. By 2030, Austria's electricity will be clean. We go out of oil, gas and coal and into the eternal energy sources, in the sun, wind, biomass and water. We use what is there and no longer consume the planet. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With the EAG we will promote 27 terawatt hours of green electricity from these eternal sources. 27 terawatt hours – that is as much as 27 Danube power plants produce a year, or as much as all households in Austria consume together in two years. This is the huge amount of this EAG package that we will decide today: an eco-strom billion every year, guaranteed over the next ten years, almost 1 billion euros for green hydrogen and biogas, so that our industry also becomes climate-neutral. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And the good thing is: For this money for the next ten years, we do not have to run every year as Minister of Finance to give us this money, but that is guaranteed, and it will also be sufficient for all those who need it. This creates incomparable investment and planning security for businesses. With this we end the past stop-and-go policy, as we have experienced in renewable energies. The electricians can now recruit apprentices, the companies, the plant manufacturers know that they can now invest because they have planning security. This package will create tens of thousands of new jobs. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] When expanding the Renewable Development Act, it is not only about large energy companies realizing megaprojects, that matters to each individual, because each individual can be part of this energy transition. With the energy communities, we promote small local energy communities, grassroots energy, municipal energy; we help citizens, small businesses, associations or communities to generate energy where it is used. The energy generated by the PV system on the roof of a fire brigade in the place uses the kindergarten or the football club, which goes from neighbor to neighbor, from friend to friend: One has a solar system, the other has a wind turbine, the next has a biomass plant – they can exchange, use, store, and they can also feed it into the grid and receive a market premium. In the past, the Republic used to want to start projects, put stones in the way of many people who wanted to engage themselves with other people in the energy transition – now we roll out the red carpet for these people. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Green electricity from Austria for Austria, these are the energy communities. Ökostrom from Austria, this is also the hydropower we also promote, and there have we have a double responsibility: On the one hand, we have to use this valuable source of energy, but on the other hand we also have the responsibility to maintain the last free flowing, the last wild streams and rivers for our children and grandchildren that they too can enjoy this nature. This is what we have done in this legislative package, and we have also made sure that the existing power plants are used more efficiently. That is what we have done in the negotiations once again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] 15 months of hard work in this law – one year for the submission and more than three months of proceedings in Parliament – and some substantial changes have been added. That is why I have the great honour of bringing in, on the one hand, the amendment tabled by Mr Lukas Hammer, Mr Tanja Graf, Mr Alois Schroll, colleagues on the Government template 733 of the Supplements to the Renewable Development Act package - it was distributed to you - and, on the other hand, I am bringing in the amendments tabled by Mr Lukas Hammer, Mr Tanja Graf, Mr Alois Schroll, colleagues on the report and request of the Committee on Economic, Industrial and Energy on the draft federal law amending the Environmental Promotion Act, and I will explain both in their fundamentals. On the one hand, we will promote agriphotovoltaics, i.e. the double use of the same land by agriculture on the one hand and photovoltaic use on the other, on the other – which is a major renewal in this package – we have created the largest district heating package in the history of this country. All projects that have sought funding in recent years – regardless of whether that was in Vienna, Graz, Innsbruck, Salzburg – now receive funding. We'll cut down the entire waiting list – that's more than 100 million euros. In addition, and this is the subject of the Environmental Promotion Act, we raise district heating to a new level and have a commitment framework of 30 million euros for the next ten years. We have changed something in the financing process – Mr Schroll will certainly be talking about it. We will study this energy revolution together, as before: through our electricity bill, but only if the families can afford it – and those who cannot afford it are exempt from the funding contributions, or we have introduced a new, socially just cost cover. We also give the Minister the opportunity to define eco-social criteria, which are also concerned with keeping value creation better in the region. There are new investment grants for biomass, hydropower and so on – I am not going to mention all the points now, otherwise the President will have to stop talking to me. I would like to conclude that this is a historic moment – it does not happen so often that the whole Republic has a new operating system – and I therefore want to use a huge one: Thank you!, close: first to my coalition partner Tanja Graf, the energy spokesperson of the ÖVP, and her great team; also to Magnus Brunner and his great team and to the energy spokesperson of the SPÖ Alois Schrolland his great negotiating team – thank you for these really constructive, fair and hard negotiations! –; to my staff in the Bertram Friessnegg, Oliver Schnetzer and Tina Rametsteiner club, who really hacked in; especially to the Minister for Climate Change, who has also been very much involved in the negotiations personally; and [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP]] [[Congratulation with Greens, ÖVP and SPÖ]] all their employees, who have done great work and worked nightly, if we have already stopped negotiating. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I would like to mention Florian Maringer, representing the great staff at the Ministry of Climate Change, because we all know, without him, this package would not be like this today: Thank you, Florian! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And whatever I have to say: Many thanks to all the families of the just mentioned that they have endured this marathon. My apologies are just: I think it paid off. We're giving this country a new operating system today and we're starting into climate neutrality in Austria. Thank you. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[11:09]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Total amendment Deputies Lukas Hammer, Tanja Graf, Alois Schroll, Ladies and gentlemen on the report and request of the Committee on Economic, Industrial and Energy on the draft federal law amending the Environmental Promotion Act (983 d.b.) (TOP 2) The Council of Nations would like to decide at second reading: The draft law referred to at the outset is as follows: ‘Federal law amending the Environmental Promotion Act The National Council decided: The Environmental Promotion Act, BGBl. No. 185/1993, as last amended by the Federal Law BGBl. I No. 114/2020, is amended as follows: 1. In § 6 para. 2f the point after Z 2 is replaced by a stroke point; after Z 2 the following Z 3 is inserted: ‘3. for the extension and decarbonisation of district heating and cooling systems according to § 24 para. 1 Z 1a Grants and award contracts corresponding annually to a cash value of up to EUR 30 million between 2021 and 2030, with an annual cash value of at least EUR 15 million in the years 2022 to 2024; unexploited commitment frameworks of one year may also be transferred to the following years." 2. In § 23 para. 1 the point after Z 3 is replaced by a stroke point; after Z 3, the following Z 4 is inserted: ‘4. to promote the expansion and decarbonisation of district heating and cooling systems and thus – taking into account waste heat within the meaning of § 5 para. 1 Z 1 EAG, as amended by the Federal Act BGBl. I No. xxx/2021 – to contribute to the increase in the annual share of renewable energy sources in district heating and cooling and contribute to the achievement of climate neutrality by 2040.’ 3rd. In § 23 it is according to Abs. 2 of the following paragraph 3 inserted: ‘(3) For the purposes of the objectives referred to in paragraph 1, the following definitions shall apply: 1 Z 4 the conditions of support shall be determined in the appropriate manner that: 1. support in coordination with the promotion of district heating or cooling systems based on renewable energy sources and the achievement of long-term objectives; 2. using existing energy savings potential and the potential for reducing primary energy sources to supply district heating or remote cooling; 3. to be dampened by the establishment of cooling networks for the increase in electricity consumption for climate change; 4. the emission of air pollutants, in particular in rehabilitation areas as referred to in Section 2 para. 8 Immission Protection Act Air (IG-L), BGBl. I No. 115/1997, as applicable; 5. speeding up the expansion of district heating and cooling systems in the conurbations. The Federal Minister for Climate Change, Environment, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology will have to explain, as part of the evaluation in accordance with § 14, the extent to which these funding will contribute to the achievement of the objective. To the extent that no contributions are made to the objectives of such support, the content of the support shall be adjusted in an appropriate manner.’ 4. In § 24 para. 1 the following Z 1a is inserted after Z 1: ‘1a. Investments for the expansion of district heating and cooling systems, including the associated infrastructure and lines, which – taking into account industrial waste heat – have a share of less than 80 % of district heating or remote cooling from renewable energy sources, cooling machines based on renewable energy sources or waste heat as defined in § 23 para. 1 Z 4, where compression refrigeration systems use at least 50 % of the waste heat generated by these plants and feed into the district heating network, as well as building connections;’ 5. In § 25 para. 1 the following Z 1a is inserted after Z 1: ‘1a. - to the extent that an investment is made in accordance with § 24 para. 1 Z 1a should be promoted – (a) the application for funding from the entry into force of the BGBl. I No. xxx/2021 is submitted to the resolution body, (b) the application is accompanied by a conversion plan (decarbonisation path) which shows, as in existing distribution networks up to 2030 – taking into account waste heat within the meaning of § 23 para. 1 Z 4 – a share of 60 vH and by 2035 a share of 80 % renewable energy in the supply of district heating or remote cooling is to be achieved. In any event, the conversion plan shall contain information on the target state of the network and on the minimum reduction of the heat consumed from fossil energy sources and primary energy use; and (c) at least 50 % of renewable energy sources, 50 % of waste heat, 75 % heat from combined heat and heat or 50 % of any combination of these energies are used to supply heat or cooling or the investment project is connected to a remote heating or cooling system which meets these criteria; (d) the project provides at least one final consumer with district heating or telecold colds, which is not the district heating company within the meaning of § 189a Z 8 UGB, dRGBl. S 219/1897, as applicable;’; 6. The text of Section 27 shall be preceded by the words ‘(1)’ and the quotation ‘§ 24 Z 1 to Z 5’ by the quotation ‘§ 24 para. 1 Z 1, 2, 4 and 5’. 7. In § 27 it is according to Abs. 1 following para. 2 added: ‘(2) The level of funding provided for in § 24 para. 1 Z 1a is 20 % of the environmental costs of the investment. In the case of installations with a high increase in the share of renewable energy sources used, the level of funding may be up to 25 % of the environmental investment costs. If this exceeds the maximum aid limit, the extent of the aid shall be reduced accordingly.’ 8. The following paragraph shall be added to § 53. 24 added: ‘(24) § 6 para. 2f Z 3, § 23 para. 1 Z 4, § 23 para. 3, § 24 para. 1 Z 1a, § 25 para., 1 Z 1a and § 27 in the version of the Federal Law BGBl. I No. xxx/2021 shall enter into force on the day following the call.’; Reasons To Z 1 (§ 6 para. 2f Z 3): With the removal of funding under the Heat and Refrigeration Management Act (WKLG), the promotion of district heating and cooling systems will be transferred to domestic environmental promotion, which is already the central instrument for the promotion of district heating systems based on renewable energy sources. For the budgeting, an independent budgetary commitment framework has been set up, in an analogous way to the funding under the Rehabilitation Plan, by the other areas of support for environmental support in the country. The annual commitment framework is set for the years 2021 to 2030 with a maximum of EUR 30 million each, with at least an annual commitment framework of EUR 15 million available between 2022 and 2024. Due to the typical implementation periods, a certain flexibility in the implementation of the commitment framework is necessary, which is why commitments that have not been made in the following years can be taken with them in one year. On Z 2 and Z 3 (§ 23 para. 1 Z 4 and § 23 para. 3): The expansion of district heating and cooling is a key element in the decarbonisation of the building sector. Accordingly, this area is in the context of the preparation and preparation of the heat strategy to which the federal government (represents by the Federal Minister for Climate Change, Environment, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology, and the Federal Minister for Finance, as well as the countries (by means of the national leaders, the national energy and the national climate players) have been assigned a separate field of action. The transfer provides a systematic combination of existing district heating promotions based on renewable energy sources in the context of regular domestic environmental promotion with the promotion projects previously carried out in the WKLG of those district heating and cooling systems, which have a less than 80 % share of renewable heat, taking industrial waste into account. In terms of content, the necessary force of district heating and cooling development is demonstrated, in particular, by the regulatory framework planned at the federal level under the government programme as a key technology for the exit from fossil installations for building conditioning and hot water preparation. In addition, this funding instrument will also serve to achieve the annual increase in the share of renewable energy in district heating by 1.5 %, as envisaged by the Government's programme. The funding conditions are defined in the domestic classification and structure of environmental promotion and are linked to the previous criteria of support under the WKLG, modified by the adapted objectives for the expansion and decarbonisation of district heating. The criteria for support shall be designed in a way that enables the objectives of the support to be achieved effectively and efficiently. It is therefore necessary to analyse the impact of the funding on these objectives during the regular evaluation in accordance with § 14 UFG. In the case of less than intended contribution, the conditions of the support shall be adapted accordingly. On Z 4 and Z 5 (§ 24 para. 1 Z 1a and § 25 para. 1 Z 1a): The funding items of the current support programme for the expansion of district heating and cooling will be fully adopted under the collective term “Front Heat and Remote Cold Management System” in the new support system established in the context of environmental support in the country. This includes all line-related system components. Waste heat is taken into account when it occurs in industrial processes (including the tertiary sector). In this respect, this merge enables an optimized and comprehensive orientation of the district heating and cooling strategy with regard to the objective of decarbonisation by 2040. While no production facilities are being promoted for the heat sector, refrigerating machines are eligible as a central element of refrigeration production within the scope of this promotion subject to the use of renewable energy sources, such as electricity from renewable sources, or waste heat. In the case of compression refrigeration systems, the use of waste heat in these installations is required as a condition for promotion. Therefore, the aim of the promotion is to bring these networks, which are not considered to be biogenic, into this level. Accordingly, the German Federal Act for the treatment of the scheme still provided for under the WKLG, according to which a plan to increase the share of renewable sources, including waste heat within the meaning of § 23 para.: 1 Z 4 (industrial waste heat including tertiary sector and waste heat from CHP) will be applied by 2030 to 60 per cent and so on. ==References====External links== The more detailed content of the funding, in particular the management chart for the promotion of these projects, will be used in the best domestic environmental promotion system at the level of the promotion directives and/or of the national environmental programmes. the further concrete support offers (‘information sheets’). This ensures that a programme of support that is flexible, highly efficient and effective to support the needs of this sector can be targeted. Z 7 (§ 27 para. 2): Support is intended to provide a sufficient incentive for the development and decarbonisation of investment. A minimum rate of funding is therefore provided for these projects, but it is in no way permitted to exceed the maximum aid limits. The minimum rate of funding is slightly lower than that currently used in promoting the development of biogenic networks.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e13517	The amendment, Supplement 1 and the amendment as a whole, Supplement 2, were presented in the Guidelines, are sufficiently supported and are therefore also under negotiation. Mr Alois Schroll, you are speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e13544	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear listeners, dear listeners! Dear ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! With today's decision on the EAG, I believe we can all say that, we are launching the largest climate and energy transition in Austria. Yes, the SPÖ is very clear about the energy transition in Austria and thus to the expansion to 100 percent of balanced electricity generation from renewable energy sources. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, in the last few weeks and months we have negotiated the government coalition with great emphasis. This time was very, very important to find the social balance in the EAG for us. The SPÖ also stands for a fair and very fair design of the energy transition, because the climate change was and is also a social issue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] My main focus in the negotiations has always been that the expansion of eco electricity must not and cannot be at any time at the expense of low-income households. I say it very specifically again today: The energy transition must not be a two-class energy transition. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ as well as with Mr Tanja Graf and Mr Rössler.]] With this claim, ladies and gentlemen, we went into the negotiations: getting the social aspect back into the law paper. The social manuscript had to be recognizable to us, and that quite clearly. With social democracy in the negotiation team, it was ensured that electricity costs for households, but also for SMEs, will not explode in the coming years. We have fought hard to make the presentation ecologically meaningful and at the same time socially fair, because the original draft of the government, ladies and gentlemen, has looked different in this respect and, of course, was not satisfactory for us at the beginning. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the negotiations were long. Yes, they were intense, and yes, they were energetically loaded, but always with the same objective of bringing the EAG to Parliament today, and I would like to say thank you for that. We often had different views, but I think – I have often said this to my colleagues – there is a beautiful saying: Only at the end does the goosel get crispy. So we needed this time. We have succeeded in negotiating some of the essential points for us on the part of social democracy. We've already heard: The Cost cover with 1 billion euros was very important for us. Low-income households, for which automatic GIS exemption applies, will continue to be automatically exempt from the eco-current rate in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I am still very proud of the fact that I have succeeded in extending this group of people even further. Some 1.2 million Austrians, who are now at risk of poverty, are more than afflicted by this pandemic, will not have the 100-euro lid in the future, but we have managed to reduce it to 75 euros for 1.2 million people or 500 000 households. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It was also important for us to introduce eco-social criteria for future funding for the expansion of renewable energy. This was also very important to me personally and was ultimately also written into the law. While the original government template had completely stopped the promotion of district heating, the SPÖ negotiated its own funding rail during the negotiations. Overall – Mr Hammer has already mentioned it – 300 million euros will be provided by 2030, for energy sources in the cities. In addition, EUR 110 million has been approved for those projects already submitted in the last ten years. It is very, very nice – especially for cities with fine dust problems such as Graz, Linz and Vienna, this is an important solution. I am also pleased, my colleague, that the ÖVP has now come up with the fact that district heating is not a party-political issue, not a SPÖ topic and none for the city of Vienna, but one for all the cities in Austria. [[towards Abg. Tanja Graf]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All in all, ladies and gentlemen, we are very, very satisfied by the SPÖ. Apart from the social component, of course, we also needed to ensure that security for the energy industry can now be decided as quickly as possible. Planning security, security for the energy industry were very, very important. I'd like to finish. Mrs Minister, we have been very, very tirelessly negotiating, we have been negotiating for a long time, but in the end we will give you today the golden key for the two-thirds majority in Parliament on the part of the Socialist Group. We are calling on social democracy to deal with this two-thirds majority today – and I am convinced that we still have very, very many issues, such as the Energy Efficiency Act, the Renewable Heat Act and much more. You can talk to the SPÖ when a very, very clear social manuscript is recognizable. Thank you, Mrs. Minister, you said it at the press conference yesterday: It is a day of joy in terms of climate and energy. – I want to expand it: It is a day of joy for the e-branch, for the federal states, but also with regard to thousands of jobs created but also secured. Finally, a warm thank you to my negotiation team, who has been traveling with me day and night in the last months! Dear Tanja Graf, colleague of the ÖVP, thank you for the discussion at eye level! Lukas Hammer, thank you for the discussion culture during the negotiations! It was often tough, but we have achieved a result. Thank you, Mrs. Minister. Mr State Secretary, thank you also for using it if it has not gone on at all! A warm thank you – we will agree to this law today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e13652	Next speaker: Mrs Tanja Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e13677	Estimated President! Estimated Minister! Dear Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! There are three letters: three letters that write history, and three letters that bring us a big step further to the expected climate targets, three letters: EAG, renewable expansion law. Thanks to this EAG, over the next ten years we will produce additional 27 terrawatt hours more eco electricity – electricity made in Austria. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] So that we have a little comparison for the viewers: The 27 terrawatt hours, that's about the amount of electricity that Vienna needs in three years – that's a huge amount. We have created the ideal framework for this. With the EAG, we have managed to put the eco-strom's conveyor system on new legs. You, dear Austrians, play the main role in this, because thanks to your contribution to the eco-strom fee, this expansion has only been possible. Together with you, the companies as well as the energy supply operators and the interest groups of the respective technologies such as hydropower, wind, photovoltaics, biomass and biogas play an important role, because thanks to the expansion they also want to force, we create our goal of 27 terrawatt hours together. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Everything was precisely regulated as well. Each technology receives its own funding pot, which is also good, because each technology has other challenges and requirements that are very different. Our task is to ensure the framework conditions for this funding area of the respective technology. That's why we have first 11 terrawatt hours of photovoltaics for expansion. In the future, electricity will be generated not only on roofs but also on sealed areas, and there will be a double use of agricultural land. We will expand the wind power with another 10 terrawatt hours. This is more than one third of the total contribution. Our proven hydropower, which has so far brought us a lot of renewable energy, is expanded with additional 5 hours of terrawatt. To complete the areas, of course, we also need our biogenics – biomass, biogas – which, of course, will help us a lot in winter. All in all, there are 27 terawatt hours – clean electricity made in Austria, I may mention it again. In the EAG we also find further important impulses: We will take the first major steps towards hydrogen technology. It's very important that we're drivers and not co-drivers. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] There's something completely new: You, my highly valued Austrians, will in future have the opportunity to actively participate in climate protection. In one of his interviews, our State Secretary, Magnus Brunner, met: The EAG is one of the largest environmental power packages in recent decades. The heart of the law is the possible energy communities. Each house, every small business, every agriculture can become its own electricity producer, so to speak, saving two thirds of the network charge. Bioenergy is also supported by the successor sailing. The continuation of a biomass plant is thus really safe. In many rural areas, we thus ensure energy supply with renewable raw materials. This is a very important contribution. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In parallel with the expansion of renewable energies, of course, we also need our businesses and their employees. With this expansion, we will stimulate the economy and on the other hand create a lot of new green jobs. We all really tried to get this law done. It wasn't a simple undertaking. We have had many discussions, many rounds of negotiations and we have often been together until late in the night, but it has paid off because we have achieved the best result, and the best result also means that we have created balance between households and businesses. I would also like to thank you for this. I also come to my thanks: I would like to thank the Federal Minister for your expertise. I would also like to thank all the experts from the energy sectors. Special thanks go to our State Secretary Magnus Brunner with the valuable expertise from his cabinet, first of all Eli Widecki. From my club I would particularly like to mention Andy Samonig, who really accompanied and supported me day and night in action. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I thank my energy colleague Lukas Hammer for the really not easy, but always very constructive conversation we have had, and also for the fact that we have always found ourselves. Thank you for that! Everyone has really tried to balance the balance between energy providers on the one hand, then network operators on the other, consumers, but also taxpayers on the other. With the EAG, we not only create clean electricity, but we contribute to making it better for our planet Earth. As in the case of a planet's rescue, which can certainly not be saved alone, we need a two-thirds majority. At this point, I should like to stress particularly the colleagues and energy spokespersons of SPÖ, Alois Schroll, who have always been appreciative and constructive in the negotiations and who have always preferred a common path. – Alois, thank you for your fairness! [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] I would like to invite all the political groups to the vote on the motion for a resolution. Be part of this solution too! Let us jointly contribute to making a clean electricity in Austria for us now and especially for our descendants! Therefore, my very great request: a strong yes to the three letters E – A – G – Renewable expansion law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e13793	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e13814	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Yes, the Renewable Extension Act is here, and I have to say: It was a heavy birth. For us as a Liberal Group, what is going to happen is essentially in order, especially because more market proximity is coming into this matter. It is gratifying that in the tough negotiations that lasted until yesterday, the good intention of the law has not been destroyed at the end of the day nor by any particular interests. But you have to say: It all took too long. [[Abg. Haubner: Good thing needs a while!]] Other countries in the EU have implemented these regulations years ago, and much earlier have created legal certainty for industry companies. This time we have been passing on to more renewable energy, and there companies have had to wait until they get legal certainty from the Republic. We have already received feedback from the type of industry that entrepreneurs have said: We don't care what's coming, the law is coming at last, so we can work. One thing you also have to say: Now, when you hear the speeches, you have the feeling that the climate crisis is over because we have the law. The law is good and nice, but of course that's not enough for Weitem. Only because the funding system is renewed and funding money is included in the industry is the topic of renewable energy and also the topic of sustainable energy policy not dealt with. We still have very different problems, which are open and where the government remains guilty of answers. In practice, this is about questions of dedication. Obsessive communities need months to get a company okay so it can even start working. We have state princes playing. I'm just saying, For example, Burgenland, where renewable energies are sabotaged. Then we know the subject of the shortage of skilled workers. It's great if you can explain in eight languages what everything doesn't work, but if you need one that installs you the photovoltaic system, then it will be difficult. You can ask the entrepreneurs where they get the skilled workers, which is usually not at all. I am not talking about the extra wage costs, which concerns all sectors the same. Where are the other energy policy materials that would of course also need it? The government has remained guilty of defining how it continues to consider the heat strategy, the energy efficiency law, the gas package, the hydrogen strategy. You just have to ask yourself the question: What do we want to use renewable gas for then? How much of it is to be produced in Austria? How much do we want to import and from where do we want to import it? Where is renewable electricity to come from, and how much of it do we need? – Without answers to these questions, the energy transition will look a little gloomy. Whatever you have to say honestly, what I missed in the speeches: The energy transition costs something. Citizens will see the cost of the energy transition on the electricity bill. You have to tell people openly and honestly, and no one has done that before. Well, we are basically glad that the EAG is here, even if the delay for many years is not talking about celebrating. But now it is important to listen to where the Shoe presses, because at the end it is not the National Council, it is not the ministers, it is not the NGOs that bring the law to the ground, but it must implement the entrepreneurs who scramble the sleeves and then implement the law in reality.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e13851	Now Mrs Bundesminister Leonore Geessler has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e13872	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers, you are watching us live in this debate today! Today is a great day for climate protection. Today we are discussing here in this area, in this Parliament, our energy transition law. With the Renewable Development Act, there is a law to decide which – yes – has a long way behind it, but I have already said about this microphone: Climate protection also means drilling thick boards. But we're not shy of that. We address the issues, we attack them, and above all: We find solutions. That's exactly what we're showing today. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am very pleased that we can now decide on the largest energy law package in Austria after the corresponding political negotiations of the mandates in the National Council. With this, we are laying a foundation for climate neutrality, so that we will be at the very front of Europe, thus becoming a pioneer with 100 percent renewable electricity in our country. The overall package has over a hundred pages, the amendment request is similar in scope and shows how extensive and how important – in the truest sense of the word – this package is. We are entering new lands, for example, with the energy communities already mentioned. We design the legal framework conditions in order to ensure a cheap, a green, a supply-proof eco-electric future. I too should like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have worked out this law over the past few months, who have once again dealt intensively with it during the negotiations of the last weeks and months and - yes - have improved it, especially, of course, honourable Members Hammer, Count and MEP Schroll and the many, many dedicated employees in their teams and in their clubs. [[in the direction of Deputies Lukas Hammer, Tanja Graf and Schroll]] A very great thank you, but also – above they stand and there they go – to the employees in the BMK. [[in the direction of Gallery]] [[pointing towards a staircase of the plenary room]] Some of these days are a substitute for a very great team here, which really worked very hard at the end of the negotiations – that is, really a great thank you, a great praise. I'm always impressed what this house is capable of doing. Thank you very much! [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as of SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] There's a big change in front of us. But we have already proved in Austria: We can do big projects. We showed this, we only need industrialization, the expansion of hydropower in the 20th century. ==References== Similar to these major projects, we are now creating the basis for a good life in the 21st century. Century: a clean environment, an intact nature, the jobs of the future, the economy of the future. The EAG is a really important pillar, because we not only save emissions but above all trigger investment. Overall, over the next ten years, the funding in this package will lead to investments of more than 30 billion euros. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In this context, investment is being made in innovation, investment in technology, with a high share of Austrian and European value added, in which many innovation leaders participate in the Austrian companies, from Fronius to Voest countless businesses to local trade in Austria, and creating jobs and value added. Up to 100 000 jobs can secure and create the energy transition! With this law, we are on our way. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is climate protection, as one must understand: active from the crisis, active against the climate crisis. We act today, shape our morning, with many concrete measures, such as the EAG, which is now the basis for our being able to succeed in the fight against the climate crisis. I would like to address a few points in the legislative package, because it is important, I think, to hold it again and again – and it has already happened in the speeches –: The EAG focuses on citizens, SMEs in our country, which can now be directly part of the energy transition and thus protect our climate. With even more transparency, we allow completely new opportunities for digitization, for automation, but also for fair and equal access to our electricity system for all, because we also have to pick up there. We need to create new more progressive rules in order to be able to use new technologies and new solutions. A first step has been taken with the EAG. The energy communities are also fulfilling this very function, with one of Europe's most progressive models, and I believe that one can be really proud of it. With one of Europe's most progressive models for the energy communities, we can make it possible for new actors to participate in our electricity system. We create investment in intelligent technologies, and we create above all participation of people in the energy transition and thus acceptance. This opportunity can and should be used together now! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The just transformation is a cornerstone in this package. That is why I am very pleased that we have found such a good solution as to guarantee social and best- hit people either free of charge or a cost limitation. This also gives us security in this area, namely security for precisely those people who depend on it. The first step towards a climate-friendly industry has also been taken. Green gas and green hydrogen are used properly, making a very important contribution to a future fit, to a competitive industry in Austria, in Europe. It also opens completely new and innovative niches that there is to be developed. It is now important that we deal with this innovation element in the EAG in particular in order to be able to meet the challenges of local companies in particular in global competition. The question of security of supply is also important. With the Austrian Network Infrastructure Plan, we create the basis and framework for further development, conversion, and expansion of the network infrastructure in Austria. In addition, the security strategy also creates a link between production, consumption, the European electricity market and infrastructure. No longer in the EAG, but still a weighty pillar – including in this package – is the net reserve, which was recently confirmed by the European Commission. All of this together will play an important role in order to continue to offer security of supply in the international top-notch field. The EAG is a huge package, a weighty package. It contains countless parking screws that we are now starting to turn to really set in motion this machinery, this operating system. The EU Commission is also looking closely at this unique Europe-wide package. But we want to move forward in Europe. In order to avoid delays, some parts of the EAG will enter into force immediately and another part will enter into force after the completed notification by the EU Commission. We are committed to ensuring that Austria is able to pursue its energy objectives, so we are committed to creating the goal of planning and investment security in order to support our companies and citizens in this transformation of the energy system. Parliament – you all – today decides on an important cornerstone on our way to climate neutrality. There are many laws. Yes, Mr Loacker, there are many laws, many building blocks that the energy transition needs, and the best solutions are not always those that are easiest to find. A few months ago, however, when presenting the government template, I said here: We will look back proudly in ten years on what we have succeeded in this law. If I am here in this room, when I listen, I already feel a bit of this joy today, because the EAG is a law for safe jobs, and also in the future, it is a law for a stable economy, for investment in billions in the domestic businesses. Above all, however, the Renewable Development Act is our law for the energy transition. I am convinced that, if you agree today, we can say with great confidence: In 2030, Austria will only consume electricity from renewable energy sources. And to be honest: That's a real, right, really good view! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e13999	Next speaker: Mr Axel Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e14020	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Yes, I would like to replicate immediately to your last sentence that we will only have electricity from renewable energy in Austria in 2030: nationally bilateral, because the electricity in winter will still come from coal power plants or nuclear power plants or elsewhere. - So you don't say this second half-rate. We liberals will not agree to this bill, and I will now explain why we do not agree with it: We liberals consider this package of laws to be not successful, not necessary and not good for both economic reasons and ecological reasons. In principle, it is perhaps a half-score on the whole subject of climate change, to say industry: We are very critical, it will also be future, and we do not understand that we are so to speak of Greta Thunberg, the eco-industrie and so on, and are afraid of it. We heard it again today: The world is going down, the Tornados, the climate will change so awfully if we do not immediately put our entire society on the head, in truth! That is it, and we liberals do not want to put our society on the head, but we want to preserve as far as possible the society we now have, because we find it for good, and of course we want to develop it further. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But we don't want to put them on the head! We don't want a revolution! Mr Hammer, when the word revolution comes from the left, I get a bad feeling anyway. And of course it's driven by fear-making. We don't want to. We see quite dangers to Austria's economic location, we see a cost avalanche coming to all of us. I'm going to tell you a sentence about who to pay for it all. You're just talking about taking over so many billion euros and promoting this and that, but forget to tell who to pay for it. Here I look towards SPÖ and tell you, at the end of the day, the hackers will pay that Mr. Downtown Bonvivant can drive his Tesla to the golf course. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] That's what the hackers will pay for. There you can introduce – or not – limits, which, by the way, is ridiculous: instead of EUR 100 75. At the end of the day, the hackers will pay, so I'm surprised that you agree. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And they will pay a lot: 1 billion euros per year. What's that about? – It's our goals. I've already said this for seventy times: The goals do not fit, the goals are overwhelming. Again: We or you – we have not yet – have set the goal of becoming world champions or European champions in the process of attracting electricity to 100 percent from renewable energy. We are already behind Iceland and Norway the third in Europe, so top three in this discipline. We are far behind in other disciplines – in terms of innovation capacity, high additional wage costs, bureaucracy and so on. We liberals would like to come to Stockerl in these disciplines and not reach 100 percent in the discipline in which we are already on the Stockerl, namely third place. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With what effort? – With a huge effort, with a huge energy effort, we want to make Austria, the country of hydropower – that is our location advantage – the country of photovoltaics and windwheels. The expansion of hydropower makes it difficult and hinders you by introducing an additional procedure for environmental compatibility procedures. So you're on the brake, because we're supposed to be the country of photovoltaics and windwheels. This is also an ecological topic. I don't want agricultural land to be fenced. The truth is that already interested groups, lobbyists are making their planning calculations for a 10-hectare photovoltaic plant, which is of course bombish, massively promoted, which then comes out, yes, it is likely that this plant will be worth 100 000 euros a year. Nice! It's nice for the operator, but not nice for the generality, not nice for those who have to pay for it. The same applies to the wind farms. You know, there are wind farms, for example in the Styria, which make 4 million euros in sales. That can't be it, that's totally misguided. From an ecological point of view, I am also very critical of the windwheels. There are also studies that show that large wind farms completely change the regional wind flow by removing the kinetic energy of the wind, which in the future – and we will see this in the foreseeable future – can also lead to the drying of the soil. [[Abg. Lukas Hammer:... Climate change not...!]] I'm not talking about the birds, insects and so on, that's gonna hide everything from you. Similarly, the disposal of these windwheels is hidden, which is all special waste, which are then dug into the desert et cetera. Many, many things are simply hidden from you because they don't fit into history. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The objectives are overwhelming and are, so to speak, just the pre-planning for the next – I really say it with the word – madness, if you have the so-called climate neutrality 2040 as the goal, that is, the complete cut-off for fossil fuels by 2040. We are talking about dimensions, from three to four times, so we are now talking about 27 terawatt hours, which in my opinion cannot be reached anyway, and the climate protection law is still in the pipeline. So we're going to see exactly how the ÖVP behaves in the direction, so that's all too much. This threatens the economic location, the jobs at risk, it does not create jobs. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Disoski, Mr Lucas Hammer and Mr De Clercq.]] The Green jobs you're always talking about are already there in China. China produces 75 to 80 percent of all wind turbines, all batteries and all solar panels, so there are green jobs there. I can't see these 100,000 Green jobs you're talking about. So all of this together is not balanced. With regard to security of supply: They drive down all the power plants that are ground-loaded – that is, the evil coal-fired power plants, gas power plants et cetera – and, of course, the evil nuclear power plants. [[Abg. Lukas Hammer: Is now the FPÖ for nuclear power?]] Then I ask you: How do we get the energy if there is no wind and if there is no sun in winter? - Then it'll get very cold. So far, we are drawing the energy from Germany and the Czech Republic. Germany will become a net electricity importer until 2026, because they will all go down. These are all things you need to think responsibly, systematically to the end – you don't. They tell beautiful sounding stories. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We think that at the end of the day, we want a reasonable, normal, business-oriented energy policy that does not charge the individual hackler, the individual budget. This is not the case here – not at Weitem – so the Freedom Party will not agree to this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e14124	Next speaker: Mrs Astrid Rössler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e14145	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners at home in front of the screens! There are days in Parliament, in parliamentary work, which are a bit strenuous when the discussions are so intense. But there are star-hours when it really leads to a good result. The EAG is a milestone in energy policy, in environmental policy, in sustainability policy, in all areas that can be desired. That's a really good day! [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] The EAG is a huge package. We must achieve climate objectives, we will achieve them in this one case. I regret that the Freedom Party is out there, but your world view is still that the Earth is a disc, and that does not fit the EAG, because the EAG is the future and the EAG is the climate protection, and we are simply in a world view of a round earth. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Why is the EAG so important? – It helps many people, namely individual people, each and every one can now participate in a climate achievement. At last you can take part and participate in Community investment, civil investment, which has so far not been the case. On each roof belongs a photovoltaic system whenever possible and the roof is suitable for it. People should be able to take part in this, because this is a very important step in a new energy future. What else does it say? – E-mobility is an important element in achieving climate objectives. E-mobility has several functions: It will enable more environmentally friendly, sustainable mobility, but the batteries can also serve as a storage function when photovoltaics and mobility are coupled. This requires transparency, the charging infrastructure needs to demonstrate what the current tariff for the electricity that can be charged is. To combine transparency, innovation, technology and participation are essentially the elements of sustainability: Economics, modern technology, social criteria and environmental criteria must be united. That is why it was so important for the three major parties in Parliament to get together, in the truest sense of the word, because it takes passion, because it needs a motor: our climate fighter Lukas Hammer, who has really put himself in and has also been very motivated by other parties, has also called for the time from the review to the present day of the decision to bring all three interests well into one hat. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens, representatives of the ÖVP and Members of the European Parliament, Mr and Mr Schroll.]] There is another area why it is so important that today, with the EAG, the start into another climate future is possible. There is also a responsibility beyond Austria, and the sustainability objectives of the United Nations are precisely what they address. Sustainability also means enabling other countries to participate in innovation and new technologies. Renewable energy, renewable energy is an important contribution to poverty reduction, not just to us. That is why it was so important to spend the cost cover on the amounts. The sun doesn't send us any bill. This is the essence: The plants are to be installed, the plants are to be constructed, and then there is, as it were, a power of the sun, which is at a much cheaper rate than other technologies, than fossil technologies. Global working conditions have to be improved, modern infrastructure needs to be provided, and ultimately we have to make a contribution, because of course we have the responsibility for our next generations. It is our historic mission to launch, implement and bring to the ground the climate change change – the EAG is a great foundation for this today. - Thanks to all those who fought.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e14215	Next speaker: Mrs Julia Herr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e14236	Madam President. Dear High House! We need an energy transition in this country, and hopefully it starts today. What does that mean? – The fact that we have already heard it is based on renewable energies, especially on solar energy, on wind power, on hydropower, on sustainable energy sources, on the resources that we cannot rely on. And what is the goal? – No less than 100 percent eco electricity by 2030. The goal is that if we all sit at home and turn on the TV or turn on the light or plug in our hair – whatever – Ecostrom is guaranteed to stick behind it; and we are also standing as SPÖ. What is needed for that? – Yes, some things that will come into motion: We will set up windwheels, we will clean up our hydropower plants, we will give photovoltaic systems on our roofs. For all of this, investment of EUR 1 billion per year is also planned, and this – we are particularly pleased – will create tens of thousands of jobs that are so urgently needed in this crisis. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is also a success of social democracy that the many promotions, including for companies that will now come, will also address social criteria. It will be a question of pay in the company, equal opportunities in the company and so on, because the energy transition must be there for all of us. This should also bring something to the working people and create decent jobs; that is clear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have already heard it, the SPÖ has also negotiated with this law. A two-thirds majority is necessary to decide. Our Alois Schrollalle has used the best possible means to bring as much social justice as possible – not only, yes, even district heating, for example, and so many other points – into this law. For us it is clear that climate protection and social justice go hand in hand from our point of view. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] - You can clap there, too. The colleagues of the FPÖ, who believe that if you do something about the climate crisis, meet the hackers, I would like to remind you, for example, of the construction site worker who died at the construction site because of the heat because he no longer endured it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schnedlitz]] I would also like to remind you that the climate crisis hits all those who cannot resist it, those who cannot escape in areas cooled by air conditioning, but who are outside. That is, the fight against the climate crisis is the fight for social justice, dear FPÖ. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Alois himself said: The goose will only end up crunching. – You have negotiated until the last minute, and therefore households that have already been particularly difficult to deal with, which have been exempted from GIS, have now also been exempt from the eco-electric tax, and another 100,000 households, which are also difficult to deal with, have already been threatened by poverty, are now protected by single women via minimum pensioners, pensioners. That's the way it must be. We must fight the climate crisis fairly, renewable energy must bring something to all of us, and everyone must make a fair contribution, especially those who can also make this contribution, and not only those who cannot defend themselves. - Thank you. I am glad that we decide on this milestone today, and I congratulate you too.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e14314	The next item is Mr Peter Haubner's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e14339	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! Yes, today is a good day not only for energy, but for our whole country. It is very gratifying that this package has come and that everyone who has an interest in climate protection and the energy transition has contributed to it. Thank you very much for that. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Roll.]] Mrs Rössler mentioned the commitment of her energy and environmental spokesperson. I would also like to mention the commitment of our energy spokesperson, who has also provided – and we know that everyone has to make a contribution – that the balance between the economy and the households is also given, because this is also very important for a functioning location. You can never lose sight of the site despite the energy transition, you always have to think about the location at the energy transition. I think that has also been successful, so also a warm thank you. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We've done a lot of things: 27 terawatt hours by 2030 are a big undertaking, and for me personally as a defender of hydropower is now of course a small tear, but it is so that I can say that it will of course be possible to reach these 27 terawatt hours, from the point of view of durability, sustainability and security of supply with photovoltaics, wind power, biomass and biogas. We will do everything we can to ensure that this goal is achieved. It is interesting that you have to put a lot on your feet to achieve this goal in the PV area, because it takes a total of two million PV systems up to 2030. Of course, this will not only boost the economy, secure jobs and create new ones, it will also be a great challenge that we can use all the areas that are offered to us – I hope. It also needs 1,200 windmills by 2030, so that you can reach the 2 600 full load hours that are necessary there. But I am sure that this will be possible if we all pull on one strand. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a total investment volume of 43 billion euros by 2030, of which approximately 25 billion euros for the plants and 18 billion euros for the expansion of the networks. This creates and secures 100 000 jobs in this country, 20 percent of them for energy suppliers and the others for private companies. I think that's also a very important signal. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This law also makes it possible to produce and use in the collective through the form of energy cooperatives or energy communities. Under the motto of richly sustainable, the corresponding legal basis is created that these energy communities can also generate, consume, store and sell electricity locally and regionally. This is something very important, and I think that there is a very important energy added value in the region, which remains in the region. The ideal form of the energy community, of course, is the cooperative, and it is particularly important to create an offer for citizens, for businesses, for businesses, for all those who can contribute in this respect, so that they can also be implemented. Especially the cooperative is a form that can be easily, quickly, unbureaucratically established. Everyone who wants to make a contribution can join this cooperative – just as I have said: from the producer about the consumer about the businesses about the companies. It is just that this is a modern form of platform economy, and we should also consider this in all our considerations. The cooperative economy is an essential point, and, ladies and gentlemen, it is gratifying that the first energy cooperatives have already been established, under the motto of joint success. To conclude: I think we are creating important investments in energy infrastructure. However, a modern and safe road and transport infrastructure, Mrs Minister, is equally important, and therefore my wish is: Create It also provides the necessary clarity and security of planning within the meaning of our citizens! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e14412	Mr Michael Bernhard came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e14436	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I would like to begin by congratulating you on the outcome, first of all you, Mrs Minister, but also all the negotiating groups. Everyone was invited to make proposals. We, too, have made proposals which have been partially accepted, partly not. I am therefore very sorry that the liberals are doing so. It is a small step towards climate-neutral society; it is not as big as we are celebrating today, but it is a small and important step. We know that at present almost 7.5 percent of the emissions in Austria are anchored in the field of energy and heat production and – I would assume – about half actually in electricity production, and we do not yet know how much electricity we have at the end of the day. This is the first time that the Commission has That is, one of many sectors will be climate-neutral – many others are still waiting, and I think the steps will be much bigger there. I would like to make one more point: We should talk much more about the opportunities, the energy transition, the shift in mobility, which also brings a climate-neutral society, than about fear. There, dear Luke, then separate our ways. Of course we see the Tornados, of course we see the heat waves in the northwestern USA, but I would not build our energy and mobility turn on fear, but on the opportunities that will be offered to our country in the future. I will now also come to the demolition edges that we need to think about. One thing is: It is a huge chance that we will now have the goal that we will no longer import fossil energy into Austria. That's 8 to 11 billion euros in the year. By the way, I believe that this is also the reason for the opposition of the Freedom Party. They are not climate change liars at all, but only want to prevent billions from going to Russia, that no more billions are going to Saudi Arabia. They are the ones who indirectly continue to support regimes that we should by no means support. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] I would like to address two further points. For example, we have studies on wind power, which say: If we invest 1 euro in funding, 1.6 euros return to the federal budget. But now we also have a contribution to make to the energy transition. We NEOS are in favour, for example, of making an evaluation after two or three years, of whether tax is really necessary at the budget level or whether the energy transition may even be carried out by itself. This would also contribute to the acceptance of the fight against climate change and for an energy transition, if one said what actually comes back into the budget, so that the tax rate does not rise and people can also carry it wide. The third point – and I would like to end with this, Mrs Minister – is: With the EAG we now have a big throw for the energy transition, but we do not have the employees who can carry this energy turnaround. There are already thousands of workers, especially in Western Austria, but in reality throughout the country. The unemployment described by social democracy is not so much left. And if we want to make the energy transition successful, we need a lot of well-trained people in all the district cities, in all the communities that carry the energy turnaround also at the craftsmanship level. These are missing, and on the other hand we also need clear measures. In this sense: They have our support, and we would like an evaluation so that the tax rate does not increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e14491	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e14512	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, it's a huge package, and I think we really have every reason to celebrate today. It is, I would say, the largest energy package for 20 years since the liberalisation of the energy market in the early 2000s. It is a huge package towards CO2 neutrality, especially towards 100 percent renewable electricity by 2030. Ladies and gentlemen, you are making the choices today. This package of laws is based on three pillars. These are the pillars of investment, innovation and cooperation. I believe that this package will also make the domestic energy market cleaner, it will become more innovative, it will become more sustainable. It will also be made more inclusive with today's decision, and we are very happy about that. It is a huge investment package, it has been mentioned: 1 billion euros per year, 10 billion euros per year over the next ten years, which will trigger economic investment in three-fold, namely investments of 30 billion euros, over the next ten years. And this is primarily about regional value added. I think many installers, electricians, SMEs as a whole will benefit from this package. It will greatly strengthen the location, create jobs, and benefit the regional economy as a whole. This energy transition – which was mentioned by Mr Bernhard earlier – is an opportunity if you make it right and intelligent, and I think that today's package is an intelligent package towards the energy transition. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The second area next to investment is innovation. In order to achieve the objectives of 2040, but also in 2030, it is crucial to focus on innovation. We will probably find it difficult to achieve the objectives with the current technological resources. That is why we need to focus on innovation so intensively in the next few years. Of course, the hydrogen – which has already been mentioned today – plays a very important role. Hydrogen, as economics and science agree, is the key to the energy transition if one makes it succeeding, even for an innovative, successful energy turnaround that we all want. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The third crucial issue is the cooperation between the federal, state and local authorities. We have always tried intensively in the negotiations to bring the federal states on board, because of course they are also responsible for bringing the implementation to the ground in the regions, in the federal states, to the ground. We also ensure that everyone can participate. I believe that in this context we must make those concerned involved so that everyone can participate. Only then do we have the opportunity to implement the energy transition accordingly. Some of the measures already mentioned include, for example, the energy communities, which will enable countries, communities, entrepreneurs, and agriculture all to be part of this energy transition. I should also like to thank all the energy speakers who have negotiated intensively and very constructively in recent weeks and months. I would like to thank Social Democracy, but I would also like to expressly mention NEOS because, with Sepp Schellhorn, they were very positive and constructive at the beginning and then received many proposals accordingly. Thank you all! In the end, I think the goal has all come to an end. Although there and there the entrances were slightly different, no one has lost sight of the goal, and that is important. Now is the start for the energy turnaround, the energy turnaround can begin! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e14575	Mr Walter Rauch is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e14605	Thank you, Madam President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister, Mr. State Secretary, yes, the energy transition can begin – both of you have talked about the objectives in your contributions to the debate, about these words that you are advocating here – but what does this mean in the final effect in the clear text? – On the one hand, a doubling of the small hydropower plants you want to carry out by 2030, but at the same time the greens in Graz were opposed to expanding the Mur power plant or even to building a new one. [[Call the Greens.]] There's this double game of the greens. There is already a lack of the time component as regards the duration of the procedure. How long do we need in Austria to implement such a small hydropower plant at all? As the second point, you want to double the use of wind power. This would mean 1,200 windwheels by 2030 – Mr Haubner said it. That's okay, that means setting up a new windmill every third day every 2.9 days when you count it on the next nine years. All these are steps that are economically unimplementable, and you know that. That's why you stay with the words and come with no concrete figures and proposals. The next point: Photovoltaic: A million roof program. - Great! But there is no differentiation in this area, how to put this geographically at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] It is a difference whether you build these plants in the south of Austria, where there are more hours of sunshine than in the north – or in the northeast or western part. You owe a lot of answers. One essential factor, of course, is also our cultural landscape. What does this mean for our landscape, for our nature conservation? What does this mean for our tourism? With all the images you create there, you can also sacrifice nature conservation, environmental protection and our cultural landscape. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One of the essential points – one must also mention – is of course also the surface sealing. 12 hectares are sealed daily. With no single word, you mention measures to prevent this. The target must be 2.5 hectares, you have given yourself that in your government program. You're miles away from that. Simultaneously sealing You can build the green meadow, in agricultural areas. There are fifty examples of this. As a steirer, you need to know what's happening there. [[towards Abg. Jakob Schwarz]] One essential factor must also be addressed: Who pays for this energy turnaround? Who pays them? – In the final effect, it pays the consumer, it pays the citizens. They pay a total of 1 billion euros and simply call it a market premium. That's a good word, but pay the citizen. This EUR 1 billion is paid by the citizens. This is carried out at the expense and on the back of the citizens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] One more point to the conclusion as last post: These 100 000 Green jobs can be created. That may be true, I even think. However, 500 000 jobs will be lost in the reverse – and that is not right.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e14678	Next speaker: Mrs Elisabeth Götze. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e14699	Madam President. Dear High House! Dear Seers! I start with a quote: "Wonderful! For all that are not from the energy bubble: That's really BIG!- Oh, my God! I have been in the industry for 10 years and just as long is talking about a real expansion/remodel law. Now it's here. The energy industry will be remodelled towards the future from tomorrow!!” This Tweet is from Cornelia Daniel. She is a Waldviertler, one of the most famous experts for photovoltaics and solar thermals in the German-speaking world, and advises companies on how to use the sun, how to efficiently implement projects. This Tweet is exemplary for what went off on Twitter yesterday after the announcement that the EAG is being implemented. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The question: When will the EAG come?, I believe, was the most common in recent months, anyway, in me. The answer is: today. We write story. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The law creates the framework for electricity exclusively from renewable energy by 2030. This will also make us a pioneer in the European context – and we have already heard this – from the follower. That's really big. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Why is it important? – On the one hand, because of the climate perspective. This has already been discussed in detail. I think it is clear to all of us that we have to go from the fossil way to one of the renewables. We say goodbye to this EAG from the fossil age. The first step concerns electricity by 2030, and the remaining energy consumption is to be converted to renewables by 2040. However, I would like to address a second point, which is also very important to me: the economic and economic aspect of the economy. What does renewable energy mean to us as an economy? At present, we are completely dependent on fossil energy with very low value added in the country. We'll change that. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] So there are no fines at billions of euros, which we want to prevent. Instead, we invest money in our country. So we are not continuing as before, but we are taking a new direction. We chose the right option. This creates jobs in the country. We invest 1 billion euros in the next ten years, so 10 billion euros, and create value added of around 30 billion euros in the country, value added in Austria. This means demand for domestic businesses, jobs in the country. There is a study at Johannes Kepler University. It calculates up to 100 000 jobs per year. In addition, we invest in innovations, in research and thus make the domestic economy more competitive, also internationally. Made in Austria – renewable energy and modules in this context – becomes an export hit. That's my vision. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We already have very successful companies internationally, and we want to continue to strengthen them. One last point I would like to address: the perspective of our citizens. We can all take part in this energy transition. This means that we are creating the possibility for energy communities, cooperatives, for example, where citizens themselves can generate electricity and get electricity at the local tariff. This is really new and has a huge social dimension. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I'm in contact with many communities. They're stuck in the starting holes. For example, in my neighboring community Pressbaum at the Firehouse, an installation is being built in energy community with neighbors. The calculations say 15 households can purchase the electricity from this roof at the fire station. This is a small example, but of these there will be quite, quite a lot in the next few years. In conclusion: The course is set. Let's all go! We can participate. We will participate. This is good for the climate and good for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e14802	The next item is the report by Mr Dietmar Keckzu. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e14826	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! A victory has many fathers – we know – but this victory, namely the decision-making of this law with two-thirds majority, has for me a major father, and that is called Alois Schroll, for a simple reason: To get a two-thirds majority, it was necessary to negotiate very intensively. The fact that this outcome of the negotiations has been achieved is, from my point of view, very intense with Alois Schroll and, I must say, with one whom I would also like to thank – he is not sitting in here right now – that is Gust Wöginger, who, after having telephoned him several times, has also turned on, so that something goes on in an area in which this was necessary, in an area that this EAG also concerns very much, in the field of industry. I really have to say, I am quite surprised that I am once on this stage becoming a speaker of industry, but it was necessary to take action there too. There are many plants operating their fossil fuel plants in industry, and there is a need to make changes. It not only introduces the EAG, it also provides for changes in the ElWOG – and precisely the changes in the ElWOG were necessary in order to take necessary steps for the large industry. One important point is that this system includes charges for use for research and demonstration projects, which, for example, contribute to decarbonisation on a large-scale scale through innovative green electricity-based projects as a substitute for fossil-powered plants. That is to say, in the clear text on the example of my company, the Voestalpine: The voestalpine alone needs some of these 27 terawatt hours, which have already been called so great today if it wants to operate an electric furnace – that is, away from the blast furnaces, to the electric furnace – 3 to 4 terawatt hours. It was absolutely necessary to put these measures in place in the ElWOG, otherwise implementation would not be feasible for the company and it would have cost thousands of jobs if we had not done so. Mrs. Federal Minister and Mr. State Secretary – this is really addressed to both of you – it is now also necessary to ensure that we bring the electricity where we need it. So it will also be necessary to move these lines, especially the 220 kV lines for the large industry, to create the power plants so that this electricity will also come where it is supposed to go. Now I really have to make a very skeptical remark to the rulers in this hall who are always talking so great about the green turn: I would like to ask everyone to make sure that he lives green as well. I own a photovoltaic system, and I've just looked at it: How much electricity have I generated for this year? – More than 5,000 kilowatt hours. That means I'm absolutely autarchy all year. It would be recommended to everyone before he speaks big everywhere to ensure in his own area that he uses electricity on his own house, on his facilities, to feed him. Then you really did something for the green turn, but not when you talk about a revolution that has arrived. After all, I have to say one thing: Every revolution ate their children.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e14869	Next come Mr Christoph Starkzu. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e14893	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! There has already been a lot of talk about the details of the EAG today. A great deal of information has been exchanged. Now I would like to go back one step and take you on an imaginary journey. Imagine a train, a railway; a train with passenger compartments, a train with freight transport; a train that is enormously long and thousands of tons heavy – and this train is on a journey! In this train there are thousands of people, thousands of goods, animals, whatever our society brings – it is the train of our society. This thousands of tons of heavy train travels on a journey and sets a goal. People have trusted that the goal is a good future and that the policy that leads this train always ensures that this move is also coming in a good future. Now, in recent years, the opinion has been expressed on this train: Well, we don't know if this direction is so fine! There were critics, first quietly, then more and more critics came along, and at the end – as at present, for example – almost all people and the economy are of the opinion: This goal is no longer right, with this goal we do not come into a good future! There are few who disagree with the climate crisis, just as Corona is a infectious disease, which you then carry to the Parliament; but the rest of this train crew knows: We have to do something about that. Today, we have to set a very decisive course so that the direction in which this move is going into the future of people changes, that we turn away from this path and move into a really good future. Today, ladies and gentlemen, you can all help to set this decisive course for a good future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Worm:... the Chinese, Mr. Colleague, the Chinese!]] I am really pleased that it is an honorable story that I can be there today in this decision that so many people have worked on. All of you have been thanked for, I can do the standard again. Such decisions, such adjustments, only come about when people sit down and work constructively on a solution. The fact that four parties today, who love the discourse, agree to this solution is a fantastic sign of constructive parliamentaryism. I would like to thank all those who have contributed and who will also be involved in the future – because this is not the last point of departure. We will need many more options on our way to this good future. The laws are already mentioned – and everyone is invited to participate in this change. Today we are making the decisive first move, we are taking the first step on this new path. I'm glad to be in there, and invite everyone to participate. – Good for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e14937	Mrs Karin Doppelbauer's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e14963	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! So last night we got the draft for the EAG. We looked at that – and yes, there was very, very much success. But I would like to go into an area where from my point of view one has missed a huge chance, and that is the Earth cabling. We've talked about it a few times. I have been fighting side by side with some Upper Austrian citizens' initiatives for two years because 110 kV lines will be planned and built as Earth Cables in the future. I have made many requests to do so, many proposals for legislation. My parliamentary petition has already signed more than 1 100 citizens, because people do not want to release, they want earth cables. Now you're wondering: Why isn't that going on? Why is it, why does it fail, who is blocked? It is the international standard, it is technologically possible and cost-effectively does not contradict it either. Well? – The ÖVP is opposed, it blockes together with Energie AG. The other oberösterreichische parties have lashed themselves into their warm proporz system and have not occurred there either. They simply removed the concerns of the citizens and the scientific evidence from the table. Sometimes there's something good about election. We all know that there are elections in Upper Austria in autumn – and yes, now the greens trust themselves a little out of the cover, and the SPÖ has also risen out of the cozy bed and has finally swung on the line of reason. There has even been a quite good request from the SPÖ during the last Landtagssession, but it has been postponed. So what's the conlusio? – They do not bring it together at country level; and now in the EAG one would have had the opportunity to solve that at federal level, to create a federal framework for this Earth cabling – and unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this has not succeeded. Now there is a green minister and a SPÖ, which today guarantees a two-thirds majority, so there is the possibility of creating this nationwide framework for Earth cabling. It was just left out. It's really disappointing for me, and I'm really sorry that we didn't move on here. Apparently, everyone – the Greens and the Reds – just kisses in front of the Black Princes. It's annoyed, and it's fucking time for a solution. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I really look at the SPÖ colleagues, Mr Schroll, Mr Stöger, and Mr Hammer and Mr Rössler. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] There is still the possibility to change it and make it better. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[12:29]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e15095	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Martin Litschauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e15126	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we experience the birthday of the Energiewende in Austria. For the first time, the objective has been written into a law 100 percent self-sufficiency with renewable energies for the electricity sector. Within ten years we will have completed a system turnaround. 27 terawatt hours of electricity will come from additional eco-electric power plants. That is, 2030 will come out of a new power plant every third kilowatt hour and Austria will boost industry and create jobs. So we will make our contribution to environmental protection. 27 terawatt hours, which corresponds to eight times the power of the Ztentendorf AKW, which fortunately never went into operation. This EAG is also an announcement for our anti-atomic policy in Austria. 100 percent renewable energy in our electricity grid also means: We are independent of nuclear imports, and this is also a very clear statement. We don't need these nuclear power plants. Within ten years, we will complete the energy transition. Ten years, the other states alone need to plan a nuclear power plant: During this time we have already completed the energy transition. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] It has already been thanked a lot, but I would also like to thank colleagues from the Federal Council who will also be voting in favour, especially our Adi Gross, who has also been very intensive. I have also discussed the Agri-PV with him and colleagues, and I believe that very good proposals have been made. For example, did you know that an apple can get a sunburn? These are the brown spots on the bowls. This agrophotovoltaic offers the possibility to prevent this sunburn by shadowing. We can protect the plants, we can protect them from hail, and we have a double use. This is why this area is very important, because this agrophotovoltaic can achieve land use efficiency of 186 percent, and this, of course, also strengthens rural regions. With the EAG we also prevent the imports of energy. The money will no longer run out, and the EAG will also prevent the use of coal-fired power plants. We must be aware: Every time a coal power plant is switched on, the energy price on the electricity market increases, because coal power is expensive. If we prevent coal power plants from being switched on, we lower electricity prices and thus protect consumers. A final remark: As a student in the HTL, I dreamed that Austria supplies 100% renewable energy. Now I am very proud – and I am very pleased that we can decide today and that I can be there – that we are putting energy supplies on new feet for our children that day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e15174	Next speaker: Mr Johann Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e15198	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Climate change and global warming, these are keywords that have been marked a long time ago. At the beginning, not many have yet been able to put themselves into this subject, but gradually became felt what that actually means, because when talking about global warming, some have said at first: Well, well, it's not so cold in winter, then I need to heat a little less, and we'll get along well. Climate change, global warming, however, in short not only means the rise in temperature over a constant middle phase, but in fact means instability of the weather and extreme weather, and that is what we have seen more and more in recent years in Austria. The weather records clearly show: For years we have been experiencing record months again and again in terms of drought, heat, and rainfall. It simply means that we already have massive problems – be it in agriculture, whether it be that each individual is affected when it hails, when heavy rain events occur, or if we really have long drought phases and the plants cannot grow. There were 20 United Nations climate conferences, but it was the 21st in 2015 in Paris, which actually made a breakthrough, where for the first time the world – it was 196 states – said jointly: Together we have recognized this problem and we want to solve it together! – It is an incredible change that happened back then, 2015. Of course, the continents and also the individual countries have prepared themselves for it. Our access was always: There must be an opportunity in the energy transition, there must be no prevention policy, we must not just ban people from doing something. In Austria, it is about that we still have industrial businesses in our country in the future, that we have a manufacturing industry in our country, that agriculture can work as we are used to. [[Abg. Kassinger:... ban, right?]] We must therefore also accompany these economic sectors in this changeover. The figures have already been mentioned: Up to EUR 11 billion of energy payments will be sent abroad – in particular oil, natural gas and much more – so every euro is good that we can make in the country again. This is a question of value added, of circular economy, of opportunities for our domestic innovative companies, and this is about securing jobs. This is about involving people to finance and develop, for example, Community investment. It is precisely that we are reducing our CO2 emissions with this circular economy, and it is about all of us benefiting from it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this EAG, renewable development law, which is being decided today, is a snapshot, a start. It must be clear to us that we must constantly develop it. Austria is a country with excellent energy resources. We have water, we have wind, we have sun, we have renewable raw materials, and it will not only be a sector that will bring about this change in the energy economy, but it will be the mix of all those. It will be appropriate to expand every source where it is most efficient. [[Abg. Kassinger:... highly efficient hydropower! ... highly efficient hydropower!]] It won't make sense to set up windwheels everywhere. It won't be useful to use hydropower everywhere, but I can ask you all in here that we will implement it efficiently where possible and not prevent it again. For me, renewable raw materials are an important point, which, although enshrined in this law, is not yet taken into account. There is still great potential, and I'm counting on whether it's heat or electricity generation, that we're going to take the next steps in the next few years. In this sense: thank you very much for the extensive preparation. It is a pity that the liberals are not there, although the Committee has already made the first vague concessions. I don't understand that you defend the oil and natural gas lobby so vehemently. What it means to be dependent, we have experienced a few years ago when Putin closed the big gas tap for Europe, suddenly it got cold and the plants were shut down, because too little gas has been supplied. We don't want to. We must accompany a meaningful change, a meaningful change, because then the added value will remain in the country and then we also have energy autarchy and independence – and that is very, very much worth it. In this sense: thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e15248	Next speaker: Mrs Martina Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e15278	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today is a sunny day, today the energy turnaround is started. I myself have a farm. Agricultural thinking means thinking about several generations, acting responsibly – in the business and also in politics and, of course, in the climate. Let's look back two weeks! There were severe hail storms in Allensteig, with many roofs and 22,000 Acres of agricultural land, i.e. agricultural crops whose yields are supposed to cover the table, have been destroyed. Flood events and drought events give themselves practically the ring in hand. It is therefore important that we act. That's why we're setting the course new, towards a dedicated goal: From 2030 only more renewable electricity will come out of the socket, the CO2 emissions will not be increased. We need to go the way together and simply need all the potential that needs to be used, whether this is the hydropower, the photovoltaics, the wind energy, but also biomass and biogas. As a Waldviertler, I can only tell you: In recent years, in which the birch beetle and the windshields were very strong, we have seen how important it is to generate energy from wood. It is necessary to use the shade wood and also the care wood. Therefore, I have been strongly committed to the fact that biomass and biogas will continue to be an essential factor in this law in the future. I say it would not be responsible for the fact that biomass plants that function are no longer used. One important point is that the photovoltaic is first and foremost better placed on roofs than on the wide surface. We are creating a really good basis with the energy communities. If I may draw the comparison: We have regional products that we like to buy, and so it should also be with the energy communities: It is produced and also consumed regional energy, thus saving grid charges. We create a space between economy and climate protection – and this is something important – and climate protection simply becomes more transparent, closer to the market and more flexible. The proceeds remain in the region, jobs are secured and promoted and renewable energy brings us energy independence. This is an opportunity for rural areas, for areas such as the forest district, because it really makes it possible to create value, so that one or another does not have to commute, but finds its job on the spot, that children can go to the nearest school and that they can also stay in the host sector. I thank you very much for the negotiations that have been very strenuous and have lasted a long time, especially with our State Secretary, Magnus Brunner and our energy spokesperson Tanja Graf. This law really shows responsibility for the climate, a responsibility for the next generation. We have thus set the course of climate change, energy change and for our children.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e15330	No one has made any mention of these agenda items. That concludes the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Before we come to the votes, do I ask the clubs if we can proceed with the vote immediately? - Then I'll go like that. We shall come to the votes I shall take separately from each of the Committee's requests. Vote on agenda item 1: Draft EAGGF package in 733 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lukas Hammer, Mr Tanja Graf, Mr Schroll, have tabled an amendment or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Since the present draft law and the said supplementary or amendment proposal contain constitutional provisions, I shall first put it in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Deputies Lukas Hammer, Tanja Graf, Schroll, colleagues have tabled a supplementary or amendment amendment concerning Articles 1 to 8. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I would also like to ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Here, too, I expressly note the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law has been adopted by a majority of the third reading. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. [[Prolonged applause with ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] We have further votes to vote, namely the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Karin Doppelbauer, colleagues and colleagues, on 'Federal arrangements for the standard installation of 110kV lines as earth cables'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. Agenda item 2: Draft Federal Act amending the Environmental Promotion Act in 983 of the Supplements. Mr Hiezu has tabled an overall amendment tabled by Mr Lukas Hammer, Mr Tanja Graf, Mr Schroll, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I shall therefore immediately vote on this draft law as amended by the amendments as a whole. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the present bill, title and entry in 983 of the supplements, as amended by the general amendment tabled by colleagues Hammer, Graf, Schroll, for an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Admission in third reading? – The draft law was also adopted by a majority in third reading. [[12:47:44]] Request for a further extension of the Ibiza Investigation Committee
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e15467	I announce that in accordance with § 53 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Examining Committees submitted a three-month request for a further extension of the Committee of Inquiry on the suspected ability of the Turkish-blue Federal Government (Ibiza Investigation Committee). In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 53 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Examining Committees requested that a debate be held on this request. This shall take place after completion of the agenda. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place in accordance with § 53 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Examining Committees after the end of this debate. [[12:48:42]] 3rd. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (850 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Law on the Legal Personality of Religious Confessions and the Islamic Law 2015 (925 d.b.) 4. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the Government template (849 d.a._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Act 1975, the Criminal Enforcement Act and the Law on the Law on the Law against Terrorism (TeBG) (977 d.b.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on Amendment No 1735/A by Mr Mag. Harald Stefan, colleagues in a federal law, with which the Federal Law of 23 December 1868 was passed. January 1974 on actions threatened with judicial punishment (Strafgesetzbuch – StGB), BGBl. No. 60/1974, amended (978 d.a.) 6. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (848, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the driving licence law (20. FSG-Novelle (871 d.a.) 7. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (854 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Citizenship Act 1985 and the Symbol Law (872 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e15550	We now come to Agenda items 3 to 7, on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Member Harald Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e15574	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The title of the whole, which we are now discussing, is the Terrorist Fighting Act. That's the headline, and we remember that the most important and medial topic in recent months was especially after the terrible terrorist attack on the 2nd. ==References== It was already clear that the whole show would be more than content, because we now know that this attack could have been prevented or at least could have been prevented on the basis of the existing laws and that, unfortunately, this attack has come about due to the failure of the authorities in the Ministry of the Interior. So we shouldn't have changed the laws for that. But I confess: There is, of course, a need for change in many areas, for example, there is a need for substantial change in asylum law and asylum procedures, because what has happened in recent days and months is the condition that we leave people in the country who are extremely dangerous, and then we are unable, for a variety of reasons, to postpone them, even if they are criminal and have no right to stay here. However, we are now talking specifically about the proposals that are at the table here. First of all: Islam law is being reformed. In 2014, this Islam Act was passed in brief under the direction of the then Secretary of State for Integration. It is therefore not acceptable that one now admits that this law was from the beginning a pipe-creper. That's clear, you can't admit, but you're trying to improve a few things now. A key point is: Foreign financing is to be prohibited. This is already in the old law. However, there is always the problem of circumvention of such regulations, and such circumventions are still possible. We pointed this out at the time, and I say it again: This is possible, for example, in the form of foundations, because the foundation has its headquarters in Austria and is therefore an Austrian financier. Not even the economic owner's register – with a foundation there is no owner – is the funder of the foundation. That means that this circumvention is still possible. What you really want to achieve is not achieved. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A second point: For one to know what one is talking about, it is essential that the principles of faith be disclosed. If one speaks of freedom of religion, one must know what religion is spoken of or what religion is. Are certain regulations culturally conditional or is it religion? If you are not allowed to hand over to a man as a woman, is that religion or is it culture? Is the headcloth wearing religion, is it culture? And so on. Only when you know that can you talk about freedom of religion. What the Federal Chancellor's Office has received is an octopus – eight pages of faith! That's exactly where the jumping point is: How, then, do you want to judge whether a mosque religion operates or whether it is actually a dangerous thing to state, which is why one can forbid? It is necessary to have regulations to allow this mosque to be locked up, to disband an association. But if you have no basis, that is not the case. And that is exactly what we are not doing here, we are still not demanding the principles of faith. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have then essentially, also in criminal law, show legislation. Of course, it's not all bad, that would be nonsense. It's always a nonsense to say that. There are a few measures that make sense, but I naturally focus on those we criticize, because we also reject these proposals for legislation as a whole. In criminal law, we now have a new ground for complication, and this new ground of complication means: due to an extremist religious action. That's pointless because it already exists. You can do that, of course. You can say: Okay, it doesn't hurt; let's keep an additional difficulty in it! However, it is not necessary to say that there is something to change in the legislation. In reality, this already exists, namely an action which has a particularly objectionable basis. We already have that; that is already a source of difficulty today. There is also a new criminal record. We now have “religiously motivated extremist connection”. This is also, in fact, already illustrated in the anti-state movements, for: What other than an anti-state movement is one that is extremist-religiously motivated? This is anti-state because it rejects our fundamental values and foundations of society. So we see, there are now laws being made to demonstrate that one would do a great deal against terror, and in reality there is that already or it is largely pointless. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the other hand, a request we have made was rejected. It is a matter of making it more difficult for action to take place using the right of asylum. There are other reasons for such difficulty, for example, if one uses a situation of authority, commits an act against the wicked – for example, it is difficult – or even if one has already committed several acts. These are simply objective facts that are difficult. And, of course, it makes a difference whether the protection of the state with all its possibilities is exploited and then still being done against the citizens in that state, and unfortunately, as we know, this is partly bestial. That is a very classic reason for difficulty; we have therefore put it in place. This was done with God's knowledge what – that was hostile to strangers and what else I know – was done. This is the usual one anyway, but unfortunately this was simply rejected by the ÖVP, even though it repeatedly says that it is also such a great concern that you are keenly opposed to it when asylum seekers take advantage of their situation and attack our people and, above all, women. That is why I am very disappointed that under the great title of Terrorism-Conflicting-Law, we have actually done nothing further and, unfortunately, where it was really important, nothing was done. Even on the big issue that people have come to our country, who take advantage of the situation and commit terrible crimes, nothing has actually been achieved. So the leader. Chance totally disdained!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e15656	I welcome Mr Federal Minister Karl Nehammer to the House and give Mr Karl Mahrer the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e15681	Madam President, thank you very much for the speech. Federal Minister! High house! Values Advisors at the finally filling gallery and at home! We all will not forget the day of the previous year; I think that is one of ours. Due to this terrorist attack, but also in the sense of the completion of our joint government programme, the Federal Government has become aware of extensive measures to prevent and combat terrorism. May. Harald Stefan, I very much appreciate you, and I also appreciate that you have been very well-balanced in your contribution to the debate, but on the other hand have also said that much is also useful in this anti-terrorism package. [[Abg. Stefan: I didn't say that!]] And that's exactly how it is! You know how many others: There is a bundle of measures, there is no simple solution, there is no simple answer, there is only one bundle of measures and a persistent implementation. Today, we change the Islam Law, the Citizenship Act, we change the driving licence law, the symbol law, but we also change a lot in the judicial field, and I am particularly concerned that the monitoring of the conduct of terrorist offenders will be intensified during execution and after conditional dismissal and that the deradikisation measures will also be improved. These are necessary measures in connection with many further efforts to combat terrorism, and this is good and right in today's package of legislation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The case conference and electronic surveillance will increase judicial supervision of terrorists to be released. Also the possibility of extended, also repeated extension of the trial time is part of this package. Ladies and gentlemen! The condition for electronic surveillance is, inter alia, that the perpetrator has been sentenced to at least 18 months of imprisonment. These are a few concrete but legal measures that people in our country want for even more security. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] And if, for example, I think about how important it is for the courts to take action in the future to ensure that there is a removal of the perpetrator from that environment that has influenced radicalization, i.e. radical Salafist movements or even houses, then I mean, the path taken by this package of laws is the right one. The introduction of a new criminal stock for religiously motivated extremist movements, Harald Stefan, will also cover connections aimed solely at a religiously founded society and state order by unlawful means. And – that is particularly important to me – in the future a mandatory case conference with the participation of the organisational units of police state protection and the coordination body for extremism prevention and deradization will also be implemented in the execution of criminal and action. One thing is also very important – and this has been the result of all the reports, including the independent Commission's study report: It needs better networking between police, constitutional protection, prosecutors and courts. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, a little basic – Harald Stefan, you have also mentioned it briefly –: If the word show policy has been spoken of over and over again in advance, or if the word show policy has also been taken into the mouth, then hand to heart – all parliamentarians, I think, know –: Legislation is a ongoing process, in which current cases, of course, also need to be taken into account in order to close legal gaps. And the legislator also knows he's never finished with his work. This is a daily obligation of politics, and we guarantee that with this package of laws. On this occasion I would like to say one more thing: This federal government, which should not be overlooked, was faced with such a crisis of health like no other Federal Government of the Second Republic. And in this situation of crisis, in this state of emergency, to get to the point of law, as we have seen today at the beginning of the agenda, and to experience with the Terror-Affliction-Law now, that is already a great achievement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to thank this Federal Government and our Minister of the Interior Karl Nehammer for it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e15738	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Philipp Schrangl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e15763	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen in the hall and at home in front of the televisions! This terrorist-oppression-law was given on the occasion of the terrible terrorist act on the 2nd. Negotiating on November 2020 and to be put to the vote today. There is another occasion, Mr Mahrer, why we should follow the words we heard last week, namely this terrible murder of a 13-year-old Austrian girl a week ago. This law, however, is unfortunately a toothless tiger. They are beautiful words and it is not all bad in what my colleague Stefan said. Let's, for example, pick out a few points: The novelle on the Citizenship Act is good in itself, we can withdraw the Austrian citizenship in the future from terrorist suspects, but only if it is a double-citizen, and unfortunately it is far too few cases of application – the Ministry of the Interior has estimated itself: probably five to seven a year – because, for example, countries like Turkey do not tell us whether the citizen, who has adopted Austrian citizenship, has really given birth to Turkish citizens. I would like to comment briefly on the subscription law: I believe that it is difficult to have constitutional concerns if non-prohibited organisations in the badge law are now banned their badges. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, to return to the most important issue, as I and my party find: Climate protection is important, but the most important issue now, I believe, is the protection of the Austrian population, is the protection of our children, our daughters. If anyone asks for a more stringent basis in the criminal code, just as Mr Stefan has done here today, if, in the state of need for protection, asylum or the like, there is a need to make it difficult to do a crime against his protection nation, then, ladies and gentlemen, it is not extremist, but it commands us to do so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you want to postpone criminal asylum seekers, foreigners, then, ladies and gentlemen, this is not radical, it is normal! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we want to protect Austrians, this is not extremist, but it is the task of an Austrian politician! How often have I heard the sentence in the last days and weeks: If that had been my daughter! – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen, it's unimaginably sad what happened here. Unfortunately, we didn't hold a minute of mourning for this poor girl here in the National Council today, but, ladies and gentlemen at home, you have the chance to choose your political representatives, don't forget this girl and go to the next election! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e15826	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Jörg Leichtfried. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e15850	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and wherever else you watch us! We have experienced a really terrible crime that makes no sense, makes no sense, and we have also experienced – and this makes me unscrupulous personally – how the Austrian Federal Government has dealt with this situation. It was almost a Déjà-vu experience, comparable to dealing with the incredibly sad terrorist attack last year: Once the situation was known, the debt allocations started: The Minister of Justice blamed the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice pointed out that the Ministry of the Interior was to blame. It was a soulless back and forth, as we experienced after the terrorist attack in Vienna. I have to tell you openly, Minister of the Interior, I would have expected the lessons to be learned from the terrorist attack and not to try to blame each other again. I would have expected you to work with the Minister of Justice and try to prevent such things for the future. That would have been your job, Minister of State! [[Congratulations on Members of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] But now the anti-terrorist package. I think it's perfectly clear that not every case is the same, it's tragic, bad terrorist attacks that happen, and I think we all have to take care of it together and do everything we can to make it almost impossible for these terrorist attacks to take place in Austria. That is why Austrian social democracy is of course committed to an anti-terrorism package, ladies and gentlemen. It is true, however, that there will never be absolute security and we must try and try to make this country safer. This leads me to the asylum debate. I would like to point out that the main responsibility for these questions has been the ÖVP for 20 years – for 20 years ÖVP-innenminister, briefly interrupted by the action of Mr Kickl, who caused us to have a completely wrong system on these issues. With us, children, young people who go to school here, who are apprentices, are relocated and criminals remain there. This is not what Austrian social democracy understands under a functioning asylum system, ladies and gentlemen. I'm holding on with all the clarity, even to say this clearly: The right to asylum should not protect serious criminals. Asylum law is there to protect people who need protection, and this is also our access to this issue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] But that is also the current legal situation, Mr Federal Minister! And if you have the current legal situation before you, I'm wondering: How was it possible that these people were still in Austria? They should have been postponed long ago, ladies and gentlemen, to say that clearly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutors Michael Hammer and Kickl.]] But we are also concerned – and this is something we must say relatively about this anti-terrorism package – that we also believe that, of course, the rule of law is the measure of all things. The rule of law, democracy, freedom of expression and data protection are things that are equally worthy of consideration on this issue. We would like to make a request because we feel that something is going to go beyond the goal, especially when it comes to the equal treatment of all religions in Austria. I am here with Cardinal Schönborn, who has also said that the government's unilateral action, especially with regard to this Islam atlas, is something that is not to be accepted. That is why we are also proposing: [[Quoted print version removed]] Yeah, it's about fighting terrorism. We support the fight against terrorism. But we are also in favour of the rule of law, Mr. Federal Minister. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tashner.]] [[13:11]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e15999	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore also under negotiation. It is now possible to speak. Georg Bürstmayr. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e16026	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! In this debate, these laws are about a sensible, rule of law, common reaction to a phenomenon: terror. It is therefore a reaction to the spread of terrors by violence, to the attempt to split our society and induce them to hate themselves, to separate and suppress whole groups, to try to set in motion a spiral of violence. – This attempt will fail. This country Austria, with its democratic rule of law, offers to all people who live here a roof, a common house for the exercise of every religion, any conviction or even simply to say: Leave me with your religions and your conviction in rest! We will not be incited against each other in this common house, not by violence, which wants to spread fear and terror, and not by demagogens who are trying to divide us and put some of the inhabitants of this house against another group in this house. [[Abg. Kickl: Demagogens are always the others!]] To provide terror with precise, well-measured means of the rule of law – from the redefinition of a intelligence service and state protection to prevention work to prosecution – and all of this within the framework of our constitution and fundamental rights, that is a challenge. We accepted them. Since this is often questioned by a few in such debates, let me address two sentences to the members of the various Islamic faiths in Austria: You and your religion are not just part of the history of this country, you are part of this country, as we are all! [[call to the FPÖ.]] We will stand together against those who want to destroy this commonness. - Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e16073	The next speaker is Dr. Nikolaus Scherak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e16094	Mr President. Federal Minister! Yes, I think it is important to think back to what the Federal Government is selling here as an anti-terror package, why we are discussing it here today. The trigger This terrible terrorist attack last November. The worst thing about the whole terrorist attack was not just that several people had to die, the worst thing that could have been prevented. The defendant was pre-punished. It was known that he is on the move in radical circles. It was known that he met fundamentalists from abroad. It was known that he tried to buy ammunition in Slovakia. The authorities there have informed the Austrian authorities, but the Austrian authorities have not yet intervened. Instead of first trying to look at these shortcomings in the system, to investigate them, what has already been referred to by Mr Leichtfried: a debt allocation. The Minister of the Interior once said: The Ministry of Justice is to blame, then they have committed each other's guilt. I don't think that makes any sense. The Federal Government then began to work out this anti-terrorism package later, even before the final result of the independent investigation commission was presented. It was obviously there to distract a little. Unfortunately, you do so in individual areas today. There are, in the package of measures you are presenting, things that you have admittedly made sense – Mr Mahrer has already mentioned it. It is about the case conferences, it is about how to do preventive work, how to do deradicalization, and it is also about how to make it possible for convicted offenders who have a conditional release to be monitored accordingly, so that one can see that they do not go where further radicalisation can happen. At the same time, however, you try to somehow convey a sense of security with new criminal offences. Mr Stefan has already mentioned this, in particular the criminal record of religiously motivated criminal proceedings. There is the creation of a completely superfluous new crime to punish things that have all been punished for a long time, and, accordingly, this crime will not only prevent terrorist attacks and not protect us, but it simply makes no sense. Whatever you are doing is that you want to change the Islam Act in connection with the anti-terror package. As a Liberal, I am deeply convinced that in a defensive democracy against any current that our democracy does not accept, against any current that our way of life does not accept, that we must resist all these currents and we must in no way tolerate that they are getting bigger, regardless of where they come from. But it must also be said clearly that the state must have the possibility – and that as Ultima Ratio – when under the cover of Islam’s associations radicalize to dissolve them quickly. The State must also know where its respective and religious agents operate in the context. And yes, the state, if it is assumed that there is a ban on foreign funding, must also have the opportunity to control it, because otherwise the ban is quite meaningless. We think this makes sense. Whether this will help to prevent terrorist attacks in general, I doubt very strongly, but these are measures that can in principle help in other areas and which are in defenceful democracy, I believe, too. The big question is: How can we prevent the terrorist attacks? How can we fight terrorism? – There is the only correct answer: It's about a functioning constitutional protection, it's about the functioning authorities which have sufficient resources and which can also carry out their tasks accordingly. We discussed the BAT reform at an early stage in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Yes, things will also be improved. Nevertheless, from my point of view, there is a very essential point of view, and this is the accompanying parliamentary control. What is proposed, and what we will also discuss tomorrow, is that a control committee can subsequently resolve the corresponding abuses. It was just as bad a state of affairs that led to the end of this horrific attack in November. The information was available, it just didn't feel in any way responsible. It is better to ensure security if appropriate security authorities can be monitored on a regular basis even if the intelligence services can be controlled if the state protection can be controlled. The Austrians have a right to this security, and they have a right to rely on the work of the authorities. What you propose today makes sense in individual areas. We will also largely agree with this, but there are also things in it that are more likely to run under the Mascherl ÖVP symbol policy. We would not have to do that because, unfortunately, the result is that the positive things fall a little under the table.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e16160	Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e16185	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has now been said a lot about debt allocations. I think that no one in Austria can hear these debt allocations here from this place, from one party to another, more. In reality, all of us want to fight terrorism – and this is what we want – and that crime, which is also committed by asylum seekers, is being prosecuted and brought out of the country. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of the Interior, together with the Minister of Justice, has set up a committee of inquiry with independent experts, and this committee of inquiry has proposed measures which were very comprehensive. We are here today to take precisely these comprehensive measures. That's not a point, that's not two points, it's 15 points that we decide here today. Because this has been mentioned more often before, I would like to say: Every law we decide here will find anyone who is dealing with it; we will never be able to exclude it at 100 percent. It is our duty, however, and our task to put in place so many general and special preventive measures that we can assume with a high degree of probability that crimes can be prevented. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer.]] [[Intervocation at the FPÖ:... Self-tasking of the ÖVP!]] This package is one of those which is precisely where new criminal offences are being created in places where no crime has been committed. The criminal record of “religiously motivated extremist action” has already been addressed by my previous speakers. This is a criminal record that is now in front of all other crimes, and he ensures that no one here in Austria, instead of a state order, can introduce a God state – no matter which religion, Mr. Leichfried, you are completely wrong. It is a clear pre-arranged crime, in which even with imprisonment of up to two years is to be punished. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] We are also creating a new driving licence law, by which terrorists may no longer have a driving licence in the future, just as we have already provided for kidnappers, for robbers, because a car was very often used as an aid for terrorist crimes. However, we also have a symbol law that we are now expanding, and perhaps this is also the true reason why the Freedom Party is opposed, because this symbol law also prevents the use of symbols of the Identityal Movement of Austria, which, as it is called in our proposal, is far-right, racist, sexist, nationalistic and völkish, from being used in the future; for we are concerned with our constitution, our rule of law and our society, which should not be undermined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e16236	The next speaker is Mag. Hannes Amesbauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e16258	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! From my point of view, this so-called anti-terror package of the Federal Government is a pure show package, an alibi package. Karl Mahrer has also said that this is also an occasion legislation, in the special case an event legislation without a specific occasion. We all know from the report of the Zerbes Commission that the occasion – the suspected, the disgraceful terrorist attack on the 2nd. November – on the basis of the applicable laws would have been prevented and should have been prevented. There is no doubt that this package has nothing to do with it, and this package will not be able to prevent future attacks, ladies and gentlemen. As far as Vienna is concerned, it is quite exciting that we are seeing German media today that there have now been house searches in Germany by suspected members of this attack. There were two apartments searched, and these two rulers, these Islamists from Germany, were also involved in the jihadist meeting, which this K. F. organized with jihadists from Switzerland and Germany in Vienna in July 2020 – in the face of our constitutional protection and despite reports of services from Switzerland and Germany. It was a suspicion, the German authorities say that these two people at least knew what man was up to. You have deleted all contact data one day before the attack. One day before the terrorist attack, all mobile phone records were deleted and attempts were made to blur the traces in the social media. I'm excited about what's going on there. As has been said, this meeting has been observed by the protection of the Constitution. Immediately after the meeting, after the gentlemen had returned to Switzerland and Germany, there was the tried ammunition purchase in Slovakia. There have also been clear news from Slovakia several times, but nothing has been done. So this is pure show policy you are doing here, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, the Freedom Party in this area is always for intensification, but only if they bring something. Which is to bring a foot shackle if I don't know you're being condemned for the terrorists' paragraphs, but you're probably going to be able to do an attack with a shackle. The withdrawal of citizenship after relevant convictions is in principle welcome, but this is only true of double-citizens, and that is quite, very few people. We need to get rid of these people! And I know you'll say, We may then be in breach of the Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness. – Yes, it is, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the security of this republic when it comes to the lives of people in Austria, then we cannot beat around here with any small stuff! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To the ISIS returnees: This is perhaps a mistake in thinking, which is impoverished by the term "returner". They don't come back from the adventure vacation. These are people who have participated in military struggles and who are the actual or suspected murderers, Islamists, rapists and child abuses – we know all of this. Such people have lost nothing in Austria! That must be at the heart of the discussion, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am now also presenting a resolution on the agenda item on citizenship, with two points: firstly, that there should be no more opportunities to obtain citizenship in the status of an asylum seekers – asylum is protection and assistance on time, and nothing else – and secondly, that we exclude Turkish citizens from the award of our citizenship, because we know that Turkey is playing a double game there and it does not report Austria if the new Austrians then regain Turkish citizenship. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in particular the ÖVP, say goodbye to your constant PR throughout the asylum area and confess Finally, you are becoming a consistent and hard asylum policy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[13:29]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e16398	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, it is properly put in place and is therefore also under negotiation. Dr. Harald Türk has been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e16425	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== November has shaken Vienna – shaken by an incredible terrorist attack with four dead victims. ==References====External links== On 1 November, a point of reference was made with the following measures: Deradicisation and prevention on the one hand, Measures against money laundering for terrorist financing, on the other hand – a strengthening that is to be welcomed. However, what I already lacked at the time is a first analysis of the failure of Austrian authorities to prevent this attack – specifically the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism. It is well known that there were concrete warnings from Slovakia, Bratislava – Tag Munitionskauf. We were warned, but the warnings passed in the sand. So there has been a failure of Austrian state security. The perpetrator himself was not an unknown person in Austria. He wasn't an unknown man in justice, he wasn't an unknown in state security, he was pre-punished in our country. I think before the government sets new measures – towards more penalties, possibly the restriction of civil rights, in any case the surveillance of citizens – first of all the existing state security system should be looked at – that it works optimally, that it works best to protect the Austrians from terror. In my opinion, of course, in this draft law there are a few marketing points with debt allocations, and I think that is unnecessary. The basic problem is not to be looked for in the absence of powers, but in an insufficient exchange of information and also in errors in the security of state. One question that the mayor of Vienna asked is: Why could the defendant not be deprived of Austrian citizenship? – The defendant had a double citizenship, which is also the one of Northern Macedonia. The answer is relatively simple: because he had not committed terrorist acts until now. After all, this is a point – but a small point – that the law is now dealing with, that even if one is on the way to battle, that is, in preparation, can be set up. I think that's good. The best thing, of course, is that terror can be prevented from being terrorized from social and ideological or religiously motivated basis. For the SPÖ, therefore, the focus is on deradicisation, but above all prevention. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this sense, the SPÖ welcomes future better cooperation between the authorities in order to start. In this context, these discharge conferences, the possibility of extending the delinquents' probationary period and a more targeted use of the probation workers. The new anti-terrorism law refers specifically to the surveillance of the convicted – the terrorist offenders – during the execution and after their release. In the future, terrorists can only be released if their potential for risk can be assessed as closely as possible. We welcome that. Positive are also the planned case conferences, in which the risk risk, the so-called risk management, is applied on a case-by-case basis. However, the prevention of terrorism must start much earlier than in the case of radicalisation. It is about dealing with extremism, it is about dealing with religious fundamentalism, it is about accepting democracy and human rights, it is about dealing with authoritarian environment – that parallel societies exist in the shadow of our cities – whose expression can be found in the rejection of democracy that place religious law on state justice. These are environmentals, which are often also anti-female, homophobic or anti-Semitic, and there is also to be expected. That is to say, the measures on this prevention are too short for me, there is still a need for action. Finally, I should like to say that we welcome the SPÖ and support the proposed measures against money laundering and terrorist financing. All in all: Es There are also marketing and show elements, but there are also essential and concrete measures to limit the basis of terrorism in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e16489	Mag.a Agnes Sirkka Prammer is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e16513	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! No one is born as a terrorist, but terrorist organizations are systematically working on ideologising, radicalizing and instrumentalizing young people. ==References== November has shown us that something like this can happen very easily in our midst, and that's where we want to start. The Commission's report has shown us that there are three main elements to be considered. The first manko found is that the BAT could not work well enough in its current layout. Secondly, there is no adequate networking between the institutions involved, and thirdly, the security and financing of deradisation is essential. This package will implement these points; the first point will come tomorrow and the second and third points will be implemented here with this package of measures. Case conferences, security conferences and dismissal conferences will be introduced – as my previous speaker has already said – which will contribute very significantly to the institutionalisation of all the institutions involved. This means that it will no longer be left to the management of the individual judicial institutions, who will bring them to a table, but it is really specific to who needs to give all the expertise to do so, and all these institutions must be heard in order to be able to make a sufficient, sound and truly well-founded assessment and also to link the actions, instructions and instructions to these results. That's very important. Since this is an essential point, I should like to make one more amendment, which is therefore necessary because the coordination body for extremism prevention and deradization, which will be housed in the new office, will only be set up, which is why it is necessary to change the provisions of entry into force. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Since I have some time left, I would like to talk briefly about Mr Stefan's request. This ground for intensification was rightly rejected by all other parties, on the one hand because it is completely system-absorbed, because only reasons that lie in the perpetrator's behaviour, in the relationship with the victim or in the way he is committed, on the other hand – and this second reason is even more important – because you lie to the people. [[Call the FPÖ:Ah!]] They lie to people by imagining that the level of punishment in any form is related to whether people are being postponed or not, and that is simply wrong. That's not right, because you make people think you can do anything with this change or somehow prevent what happened. They use the legitimate outrage of people about the crime that has been committed to you to call for a provision that opposes it in any form, and that is simply wrong and incorrect, and that is why everyone has voted against it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[13:40]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e16694	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Prammer, for the accusation of the ‘lying’, I give a call for an order. Mr Dr. Johannes Margreiter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e16735	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! As a legislator, we have a very special responsibility here, and we have to consider in each individual decision by which we decide a law very carefully whether this law is not only in terms of content but at all justified, because we are at least taking part in the lives of the people subject to the law. To a particular extent, this applies to judicial laws, and that is where the criminal code belongs. Now I don't want to disapprove of the terrorist attack on the 2nd. November in Vienna was of course a massive event that moved us all very, very much. But it wasn't the first terrorist attack. Austria's first global terrorist phenomenon was in the 21st century. ==History==On 1 December 1975, the Opec Assembly was held in the city of Opec, where a hostage was taken, and as a result a three-dead terrorist attack. There's a list. Unfortunately, a lot of terrorist attacks have happened in Austria since then: on 27 July, Austria. On December 4, 1985, four dead at Vienna Airport, in Oberwart on 4 December 1985. ==References====External links==* Official website There was no one to the extent that one immediately shot out of the hip and said: We need to change the law immediately! This, I think, had a good reason: because you have to be very careful with legislative intervention, because there are always two things in the scales, of course on the one hand a certain need for regulation from a current emotion, but on the other hand respect that it always has a huge consequence when we change laws – especially in the judicial area where the whole Judicature needs to develop, et cetera et cetera. If I look at this package, which is now in front of us, I can also agree, in the sense of the previous speakers, that this terrorist attack has actually been taken as an occasion to tackle some legitimate improvements which are absolutely necessary and objectively justified. It was a first reaction after the attack that a Commission was set up. The so-called Zerbes Commission has worked out the whole process very thoroughly and has then also made appropriate recommendations, at the time when the final report was drawn up, this terrorist action package, which we are now deciding on, is already on a rough footing. There's no way to save with clear words, so I'm wondering: Why have these arguments not been taken into account in the legislative process, these very factual objections of the Zerbes Commission? We NEOS will put forward a request for separate vote in this respect, because we believe that this newly created crime is completely unnecessary to the religiously motivated extremist link and does not bring any added value in terms of legal protection for our people. The same applies also to the ground for difficulty which is re-added. This shows in particular that the accusation, the It has sometimes been raised that there were elements of the show which are not entirely unwarranted, because the grounds for the difficulties in the criminal code are already listed in the demonstration. That is, we do not have to include any new ones, nor those who are more concerned by constitutional law. On the other hand – the previous speakers have already pointed out – there are also good measures, so we will agree to the law as a whole, on the condition that we will vote separately on two points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e16780	Mr Karl Nehammer has now come to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e16802	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Terror's goal is always to divide a society and sow hatred – that's the Islamic state, that's the Islamist on 2nd. ==References== In addition, as a society, we must take precautions to reduce the risk of a new attack. Therefore, we have faced two challenges: One was to set up the Zerbes Commission 37 hours after the attack. I can remember that the opposition was very suspicious of this institution, it feared beautiful reports and exchange. On the contrary, the Zerbes Commission has shown the weaknesses both in the field of the Ministry of the Interior and in the areas of justice, because the Minister of Justice and I have created this Commission together. The discharges from the Zerbes Commission will find a significant precipitation here in this House tomorrow, because tomorrow is an important day for the security of Austria, because this House will decide on security again by building up constitutional protection completely new – in terms of content and in the organization. This requires a law, and this law will be passed tomorrow. There is also a great deal of thanks from me as Minister of the Interior to all the parties represented here for the constructive negotiations. It is indeed, I believe, a great step towards greater security. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] So this one was the reconnaissance. The other one was: How can we protect ourselves even better? Therefore, this anti-terrorism package in its diversity: Four ministries – the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Culture and Integration – have contributed to this, and from my point of view, what has come out is good and right for the security of the Republic. It has also moved financially a lot. As Minister of the Interior, I now have more than 125 million euros available for investment in technology, equipment and protection through an anti-terrorism package in the budget area. This is not – as is often cited here – a show policy, but rather a concrete one. You know, on the 2nd. In November, the Vienna Weda Special Unit succeeded in turning the terrorist off within 9 minutes. Now, a few weeks later, just like the Cobra, this special unit has gotten a hardened vehicle in order to be able to clean up more secure and faster in particularly dangerous applications. In addition to this EUR 125 million for greater security, there are also many legal provisions that have been changed, and there is also more money for the area of justice. It has already been mentioned today: From my point of view, the amendment of the Islam Law is essential for the co-existence of society in Austria. Why? – Islamists are not Muslims, Islamists use religion to sow horrors and to practice terror. If we want to protect the Muslims in Austria, we need a strong Islam law, which is precisely what it serves. If we are able to close faster radical mosques when we get under control of foreign financing, we are contributing to cohesion in this society, and yes, that is our overall claim, we are obliged to do so. At the end of the day, terror will not succeed in splitting society and suspecting the Muslims who live here. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Yes, when radical Islamists are behind an attack, we remember that IS was on the 2nd. November – I think it is right and important to illustrate this fact for the future in the Criminal Code. We have also, in the explanations, actually referred to political Islam quite specifically. Political Islam is a scourge for our Republic, it is a scourge for society, it is a scourge for the cohabitation of people in our country. Therefore, the sanctions measures in the Criminal Code are also essential and correct. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Mr Scherak of the NEOS asked: How should an electronic footband prevent a terrorist attack? – This too is new and an important contribution: What makes the police and the judicial authorities' electronic footbands possible is to free up staff to bring more police to the streets. The surveillance of a criminal is extremely personal-intensive, one needs eight to ten police officers in one day. If we are able to increase the efficiency of monitoring of dangerous people through electronic monitoring, we have also succeeded in doing something for the future and security from my point of view. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Because the symbol law has been addressed: I believe it is absolutely correct and justified that we have now also banned the symbols of the political Hezbollah and can therefore also prosecute those who carry it. I also think it is right that we have banned the symbols of the identities. [[Abg. Belakovich: Why?]] Why is that important? – In Austria, we are currently threatened by two sides of radical Islamist terror and right-wing extreme terror. [[Abg. Belakovich: Ah so?]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: And of the ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Bösch: From the prank!]] There has been and is continuously giving out of the far right environment weapons, which are deeply worrying. We're not talking about individual cases. We are talking about weapons in the dimension of several hundred fully automatic weapons, kilograms of explosives and millions of shot ammunition. [[Abg. Kickl: Where did you find them?]] We see in Germany what it can lead to if you do not take right-wing extremist terror seriously. [[Abg. Steger: Just like Parliament's first storm!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: The first storming of the ÖVP central!]] Therefore, we must be particularly vigilant on both sides, and the new constitutional protection will be able to fulfil its task. Now the accusation could come: Why don't we talk about left-wing extremist terror? [[Abg. Belakovich: After with them you sit in the coalition!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Amesbauer and Mr Steger.]] – Don’t worry, the constitutional protection will keep in mind any extremist development in this country according to its mandate; but if there are special dangers, then they must also be named and the security authorities must be equipped with the necessary laws so that we can actually take action against it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] It was also discussed today that there are again interferences in fundamental and freedom rights, that there are interventions by changing the laws. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Yes, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, as Minister for the Interior of the Republic, I say to you: The government is confessing this! [[Abg. Steger: To the interventions?- Oh, my God!]] For the freedom and security of many, the intervention into freedom is less necessary and correct.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e16995	Dr Dagmar Belakovich is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e17019	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, you have spoken now, but you have not spoken a word about the case of Leonie on the lips. I find this embarrassing and I find it really sad what is happening in this country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Instead, you have come here with a PR show – you have said this: it is not PR!, but it was nothing else – you have played the hard friend, Mr. Federal Minister, in order to then immediately increase the importance of the fight against right now, the fight against rights whose symbols you must now, after this bestial murder that took place in Vienna, absolutely ban. Minister of the Interior, you are also responsible as Minister of the Interior! Your only answer was a mandatory statement that you gave, an emergency floss that you separated, and then go to the agenda. [[Abg. Obernoster: Well, well, well, na, na!]] It's embarrassing and it's a shame to you as an interior minister. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You're going to sit here and tell us how great it's gonna be now. You find it so important that now the symbols of the identity movement are banned because they have found weapons somewhere. Mr. Interior Minister, where did you find weapons in these dimensions? Tell us that, open it up at last! You know, the only thing the identity movement has is accusations. In every process that has been sought, it has been acquitted – in every single one! [[Call at the ÖVP: She defends the...!]] And when she was acquitted by the accusation that she was a terrorist movement, a terrorist unit, the ÖVP Secretary General without a portfolio, which is not here now, came and said: It's a terrorist organization! They planned a storm on the ÖVP headquarters that wanted to break in! I've lost fear of death! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] You have to admit in the answer to the question that there was no storm at all. They had no tools for a break-in, they had nothing but a flag they had heated at the ÖVP central. So please, if this is the great terror, because you have to ban a symbol, then, Minister of the Interior, I wonder if you are not setting the wrong priorities in this country and whether you are not afraid of the wrong ones a little bit. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] One thing is clear: On the left-wing extremist eye you are blind, we know, but that is also little surprising. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner]] The antifa has been maroating through the streets for many years, with injuries and destructions. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] – The Greens find this funny. These are the political, extended arm of this terrorist movement Antifa, and with them you sit in the coalition, Mr. Interior Minister. [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] There you can shake your head so much, that's what you're going to do. You're not going anymore. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP:... that's incredible!]] [[Intercessions of MEPs Götze and Lukas Hammer.]] What you're doing now is prohibiting the symbols of the identity movement. They did not mention with a word that, for example, one of the participants was seriously injured in a demonstration of the identities in 2016, which was at the intensive care station for several months. Police spokesperson Thomas Keiblinger said at the time: Whoever throws large stones out of this height into a lot, buys a man's death cheaply. – He called it a murder attempt by the left-wing extremists on this young man, ladies and gentlemen; but one does not talk about it because the stone has fallen from the right side, Minister of the Interior. This is exactly the dual nature that the ÖVP is living. If one forbids the symbols of the Identityal Movement now, then the mental disability you are practicing here is. We're not going to join this terror!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e17140	Ladies and gentlemen, for the accusation that a group in this House would be the prolonged political arm of a terrorist movement, I declare a call for order. [[Call ÖVP and Greens:Look! Look!]] Magnificence comes to the fore. Corinna Scharzenberger. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e17177	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! Dear listeners! After Mrs Belakovich's speech, I try to get back to the bottom of the facts and deal with this subject with a little less emotionality and excitement, because it is a very serious issue. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] I am talking today about a government template that is part of the anti-terrorism package. [[Abg. Belakovich: Do you have something to say in the case of Leonie or is that not a topic for the ÖVP?]] Mr Margreiter from NEOS, it is already in the government's programme that political Islam should be completely combated within the framework of the democratic rule of law, because it divides our society, because it is a massive danger to our fundamental and freedom rights and because we cannot talk about this subject without also talking about the 2. to speak on November 2020. Parallel societies and religiously motivated extremism have no place in Austria. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This applies not only to terrorist attacks, but also to women's rights. I recently had the opportunity to talk to a young woman who managed to get out of a radical Islamic community. What she said about how difficult it was for her, how difficult it was for her to leave and how girls are treated there is inconceivable and moving. It has also shocked me that such a thing is possible in Austria. But – and this is very important to me – it is not about all Islam or all Muslims, but about a small minority among them, and we must not make the mistake of closing from a few to everyone. These few pretend to represent all Muslims, and thus try to split our society. We must remove this soil, especially in the financial field, and this law is an important step in this direction. Let me also say, Mr Schrangl and Mr Amesbauer of the FPÖ, that I can only repeat: This issue is very serious and we must reach a consensus across party borders. [[Abg. Amesbauer: This is not possible with you...!]] We discussed parts of this package in the Constitutional Committee and in the Justice Committee, and we also discussed it very intensively in the Committee on the Interior last week. Especially because we have also debated it in the Constitutional Committee, it is also essential to say that the draft is within the constitutional scope and that, unlike the Freedom Party, we do not want to pour oil into the fire, but rather to think about it and to force targeted measures. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Disoski and Mr Maurer on his work.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: This is not possible with you because you...!]] More transparency in the occupation of the Imame can be targeted against Hassprediger, effective control of the ban on foreign funding can prevent the influence from abroad and the possibility to close radical mosques faster can be better responded to abuses. [[Abg. Belakovich: You already did that in 2016...!]] [[Abg. Steger: You just don't do anything!]] I would ask you to accept this government proposal. Together we ensure a peaceful living together in Austria and in Europe! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e17290	Mr. Dr. Johannes Margreiter has now come to an actual correction. - Please, Doctor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e17318	Mr President. High house! In his statement, the Federal Minister stated that the government's proposal provides for an electronic foothold. I'm actually correcting: In the Government template, it is said that a direction can be given to monitor the place of residence via GPS. In contrast to the electronic footstool, this is not a freedom-restriction measure. If it were an electronic footband, we would not agree to NEOS. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e17345	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Herbert Kickl. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e17369	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! As someone to whom freedom is a high It is good and as a person who is important to the rule of law, it cannot be held silent in the debate about the presentation of this package of laws, and I am not doing so. I put this speech under the motto: Be the beginnings! I think it is very, very appropriate to give this warning, because you, ladies and gentlemen, all of you here today forbid against the voices of the Freedom Party the Greek letter Lambda, to German: L, as a symbol – and that is what one must be broken on the tongue – a permitted organization that I would call a NGO from the right. Something else is not you like it or not, but that's something quite different from a kind of terrorist organization – just like you represent things. I know that a lot of medial wind is being done around various procedures and investigations, but it is always crucial what comes out under the line, and you have a zero message to report, Minister of the Interior. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you had anything else, then you would have told the committee and presented it here and today, then we would have a new state of knowledge that we could discuss, but you have nothing at all to show and still proceed undemocraticly in this way. What you are doing here is an unprecedented act – at least in a democracy, I want to say – an arbitrary act, nothing else. This is something that is in principle or diametrically contrary to fundamental principles of the rule of law. [[Abg. Hi, hello! Choose...!]] Even if you're yelling that zero – we already know that from the Austrian People's Party –: Last year was a single proof that the rule of law can, in truth, slip down the bumple. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: But really!]] With this method of doing so, you walk on the tracks of a certain Angelbert Doll, you act totalitarian yourself, you act yourself, real in here and now, totalitarian in the fight against an alleged opponent, a proposed totalitarianism – and you have to let that happen once on the tongue, how absurd the whole is to be real totalitarian, in a fight against something you spend as totalitarian, because it doesn't fit into the political concept. [[Abg. Bürstmayr: This is a naughtiness!]] [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] This is the strategy of the Austrian People's Party: to criminalise everything that cannot be taken into account and what perhaps lay your finger on the wounds of your sourry in the various areas. We already know that from Corona, there is nothing too stupid for you, up to Fakenev's, which you produce on the ongoing band, from the storm to the Parliament and the storm to an insurance building, to – in other ways – a storm on your party headquarters. – Your party headquarters is not so important, Mr Nehammer, I would like to say that to you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is a criminalisation strategy that you drive here, something else it is not if you lift an organization that is not prohibited to a level with terrorist organizations via the vehicle of the prohibition of a symbol. That's what you're doing. They lift the Identity Movement to a level with the Islamic State, with which Hezbollah and what all these terrorist organizations are called. Yes, please, are you okay?- Oh, my God! They lift this organization to a level with murderers, with rapists, with people who lead civil wars, with people who value hostages, with hostages – what I know is everything that belongs to this dirty terrorist business. They all join here and act as guardians of the rule of law. It's horrendous, it's disgusting! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Just because they're your habers?]] It's absurd and I'm saying this because you have to watch a little bit, also in other directions. What you're doing here is the model we'll soon be experiencing elsewhere. I do not know who the closest will be on your list, in this alleged fight for democracy and freedom, whether they are organizations on the left or on the right. Watch out! If you do not fit into the concept of this Austrian People's Party, then you are very, very quickly confronted with the totalitarianism accusation. Be careful! You are doing something second, and this is also important to me, because you are making symbolic policy with this prohibition of a symbol yourself. Maybe you didn't notice that, maybe it's an operational accident, but of course it is. You are making such a symbolic policy – and I am telling you – that does not look good for you, which is very, very defying for you and your attitude, and in fact lets your established patriotism perish to the farce. Nothing else is the symbolic policy that is based on your current bill. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Lambda, the L you forbid today, stands for Lakedaimon, Greek – the professor is looking here – to German Sparta. Lakedaimon was a Greek city state in ancient times. If I say this, then the next dangerous L comes right away, so Leonidas, a Spartan king, comes in 5. ==References====External links== I need to give you a little historical help because I believe that you have not dealt with things in the preparation for this session and in the legislative process. Who was this Leonidas? What was that? This was a Spartan king who resisted in 480 with a small army at the thermopylene passport of a huge Persian supremacy – not for himself and for Sparta alone, but for the large number of Greek city states. If one believes the historical sources, then the number relationship between the defenders and attackers was such that the defenders actually entered an Assumption command there. But Leonidas and his fighters have endured for a long time. In the end, none of the defenders survived. But do you know what survived? – Greece has survived, Greece has survived against the attempt to occupy it from the outside, because it was possible to evacuate Athens in the meantime because there was thereafter a sea battle at Salamis, which the Greeks won, and because shortly thereafter the Greek army defeated the Persian army. Greece has survived, and with this survival of Greece, the foundation of our Australian culture has survived. If people like you were at work then the Persians would have been brought in. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This resistance to the thermopyles was, I say, the prerequisite of a high flower of Greek culture. Platon, Aristotle, Athenian democracy, Greek poetry that we are all rightly proud of – these are the foundations of our humanism. All this wouldn't have happened if history had taken a different course, it wouldn't have been this gentleman with the devilish L at the beginning of his name, this Leonidas, who cursedly came from Sparta. I think it is necessary to bring this to your attention once, because that is a piece of world history in contrast to the funnelance you produce here. This was a fundamental change that went far beyond this single historical event. With the prohibition of this L against the background of this history and in view of the fact that you can't show anything about terrorist activities, say It is clear that: The defense of your own home is something that is not worth anything to you at all, but that is something that is unvalued for you to condemn. That's the message. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haubner:... embarrassing for this house!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] By prohibiting this L, you say that protecting one's own culture against alienation is nothing that has value and meaning for you, but that it is something one must condemn and fight. [[Abg. Haubner: But you don't believe that!]] They say that the European evening country is in fact of no value to you, that it is not worth seeking and protecting, but that it is for you a run-out model for which you do not have to resist and for which it is not worth fighting. You also say, of course, that freedom for you is nothing worth defending. Where are we going if you have to put up with mumm? They also say that nationality for you is something like an outflow model and that for It is a multicultural society or some major central state, as it now threatens in the form of the European Union in 2021, a thousand times more desirable. This is for you the music of the future and something desirable – not for us. These are all messages you send with this decision today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] I would like to thank you for this revealing openness which I would not have expected in the form, but which fits your inability to protect their own borders and thus their own population from illegal mass migration. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We've known that since 2015, and it's no different to this day. The consequences of then we still bear to this day, up to disgraceful blood acts that we will discuss tomorrow. It fits your failure in the fight against political Islam; the dead of the autumn of last year should be a warning to all of us. It fits your failure in the fight against political Islam, and it fits in with your inability to protect your own population, the Austrian population from criminal asylum seekers, asylum seekers and other people from all over the world, including from the Orient who are in Austria, because they are supposed to need our protection. [[Call the ÖVP: Unheard!]] I am therefore in the case of Leonie, who has been ashamed of you today in Parliament at the first appearance since this blood attack was not worth a word. It's a shame, Minister of the Interior, I have to tell you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, a very simple summary: More resistance, more resistance, more love of freedom, more courage and more courage in politics, which is something I consider to be more liberal. These are values and virtues for me to defend. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz:... also wanted the identities...!]] [[Further call at the ÖVP: This is a partisan speech!]] That is what we have far too little in our political world, and of other things, of false tolerance, of stupid naïveness, we have much too much and for that you are the representatives. So I wish myself more of the spirit of a Leonida and perhaps also of a Themistocle, even though the It's been 2,500 years, but from my point of view these people are statesmen, at best they're Sunday speakers.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e17585	There is a word on business treatment. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e17621	Mr President. Klubobmann Kickl used a word, namely, “sin”. It is a shame, Mr President, when Klubobmann Kickl mentions the Austrian government of a totalitarian behavior. [[Call the FPÖ: Is that how it is?]] That is the hardest to reject, and I expect you, Mr President, to give him a call for order. [[Abg. Kickl: The totalitarians never admitted that!]] He compared government behaviour with that of the year 1934, in which the Austrian Parliament was eliminated and governed by the War Economic Authorization Act of 1917. It's not the first time Mr. Klubobmann Kickl shows this as his program here. He has already given it to an employee, a delegate, also to the committee to reject this law because he identifies himself with the Austrian Identityal Movement, although the Austrian Freedom Party – before Klubobmann Kickl became partyobmann – has distanced itself from the Identityal Movement by party decision. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: (in the direction of FPÖ) You are a friend of yours!]] This has now changed, and it is worth pointing out today that, in today's situation, we are speaking again in 1934, when we are all here – four parties! – adopt a package of measures to combat terrorism in our constitutional bow. I ask you again for a clear reproof and a rejection of the statement of Clubobmann Kickl.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e17686	There is a further word on business treatment. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e17710	Mr Gerstl referred to the Rules of Procedure, but did not say anything about the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Yes, of course, he asked for an order call!]] – Why yell You're like that? Don't yell in my right ear, if it's possible, thank you! I would like to point out that the ÖVP club in honour of the person Dolfuß had this image in its club premises until 2017. In 2017, it was reduced due to the move, where it is now, we do not know – perhaps Mr Gerstl can provide information about it? –, maybe at the Federal Chancellor's home, we don't know. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is not an GO word message!]] In any case, the fact is: All that Klubobmann Kickl said in his speech is verifiable. We are in a situation in which this government is working with regulatory powers that are being passed on to the needs of the population, and this reminds itself of initial situations, as it did in the 1930s.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e17766	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e17790	So, Mr President, that really slides into the intolerable and unacceptable. [[I should like to thank the rapporteurs of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for their support.]] [[Call the NEOS:Yes!]] The request made by Mr Gerstl to you was to give the Federal Minister a call for order for the accusation of totalitarianism. That's why I'd urgently ask you. [[Abg. Amesbauer: You can do that from me too...!]] In addition, I really want to reject what the honourable Member has said. At that time in the 34's it was ruled by the elimination of Parliament and by the aid of regulations. Today, in this pandemic period, the government has adopted some regulation in recent months, but always on the basis of a mandate from Parliament, the sovereign of that state. That's probably a big, big difference.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e17856	Business treatment, Mr Mag. Light peace. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e17880	Mr President, I find this debate intolerable. In 1934 the first victim was social democracy and the second victim was democracy in that country. Now, at the expense of this historical event, of those who were the ideological predecessors of this development, on both sides, wanting to make politics, I believe is really a joke and I am holding back from this discussion. It was about freedom, democracy at the time, and that is something that we should not make ridiculous here, ladies and gentlemen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e17905	On business, Mr Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e17929	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is perfectly right, Mr Leichtfried, that this issue is not a joke. We here in Parliament know, however, that in the room it has been said that the President of Parliament has wanted to shut down Parliament and no longer hold meetings, that with the regulations you are setting in motion, you have to turn off Parliament to a good part, that there is no longer any review. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hanger and Mr Gabriela Schwarz]] Ask the Austrian people what you have done as the Austrian People's Party with their rights of freedom, what you have done with their fundamental rights! [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] One thing I'm saying – and that's not funny, not funny, and nothing else – is: [[Abg. Michael Hammer: It's just stupid!]] It is absolutely our task to act and act as democrats here in the Austrian Parliament against all totalitarian developments, democratic developments. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hanger and Mr Michael Hammer]] And if you are being bullied for dealing with these democratic developments, then, ladies and gentlemen, you can still see how far we are with this development. Dear Austrian People's Party, my colleague, I already understand that this is unbearable for you – the truth sometimes hurts – but we are the representatives of the people and not the representatives of this totalitarian government!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e18001	I would ask you, in speaking on the Rules of Procedure, to speak on the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: That was not the order! It's a blamage, this party! Be glad you're no longer boss of this troop!]] [[Abg. Lausch: What do you mean, “this troop ”?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: To shame!]] Is there any further mention of the Rules of Procedure? - Please, Mrs. Klubobfrau.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e18077	Mr President. I would like to reject what is claimed here, and I would like to hold on to the Freedom Party: All Members of this House are elected, all Members represent certain constituencies, we are in a democracy, we are in a functioning parliamentaryism, and those claims that you are making here have had anyone in mind to disfellowship Parliament are unbearable and unbearable. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We're acting here on the basis of laws. And yes, we had a very challenging time last year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schnedlitz.]] We did it. Our Constitution and our Rules of Procedure have kept all the instruments ready for us to do so. We decide laws here, we discuss them, and you vote against them if you do not fit anything, but we are a democracy, we have a functioning rule of law, a functioning division of powers. The way you're trying to insinuate here that Parliament would not work, that the government would have absoluteistic traits in any way, is incredible and proves, above all, that in your comparisons you are always completely beyond the goal and act completely unscrupulously. [[Abg. Kickl: That's what someone says...!]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I would urge you to stick to the order of the House, to appreciate and respect the dignity of the House and, in accordance with our wishes, to continue the debate on our Rules of Procedure. What you are holding here is damaging democracy, the democratic debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e18143	Please, Mrs. Klubobfrau.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e18168	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We are now debating whether there should be a call for order here in this House or whether the government should be subjected to totalitarianism. I think it is in line with the dignity of the House to give it a call for order. [[Congratulation with NEOS, ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Thank you!]] I think that a comparison with the 1930s is more than just not appropriate, it is just too devaluing and depressing to the fascist tendencies of the 1930s and would be absolutely inappropriate here, and we must be a High House, as Parliament and as a People's Office, against it. But – now comes a big but –: However, I think it is, in the sense of the freedom of expression, completely unacceptable to Members to note that there have been very discussions here in the House that Parliament cannot come together, because there may be a risk of infection. And we have – and the colleagues of the other political groups know this very well – fought very hard as an opposition to the fact that Parliament is at any time able to meet and operational, and it was good to stop exactly this trend towards a more authoritarian policy on the part of the government, which has already gained a great deal of power with the powers of regulation. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: But not the blues! They have...!]] [[Congratulations on Members of the NEOS]] But – in the sense of the dignity of the house –: Totalitarianism is definitely not appropriate as a comparison.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e18234	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I think very carefully when I call for an order and when not. – I have already given two calls for orders today, as you have already heard. I can also say, however, that when you decide whether to give such a call or not, you can often be fooled by how emotional or loud a speech is presented. [[Call the ÖVP:No, no, no, no! No, no, no!]] This can happen to the Presidency. I have also listened very carefully to what Mr Klubobmann said. He has accused one of “walking on the tracks” of Engelbert Dolfuss – and precisely for this statement I do not give a call for order, even because, as was suggested, it is not forbidden to hang a picture of Engelbert Dolfuss. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Bah!]] So I really ask you to return to an objective debate, because I believe that this debate – with regard to the question: what can we compare, what can we not compare? – one is with which we are very, very limited. No comparison with the 1930s: If there is this comparison, is there really a call for order, even if we compare the atrocities of that time? That's why: I think very, very precisely, when I give a call for order, and I ask for understanding that in this case I will not give a call for order. [[Call the ÖVP: No, you can't! So that's - - -!]] [[Abg. Gerstl has that hand.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Down your hand!]] [[Abg. Gerstl: To the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Down your hand!]] - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e18346	Mr President. I think you have only observed a small sentence by Mr Klubobmann Kickl. Mr Klubobmann Kickl has also spoken of totalitarianism, he has spoken of acid acids, and I would urgently ask you to let the minutes come and read what words he has said quite specifically. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schnedlitz]] Otherwise, we would all be wrong now, four parties would be wrong because they have heard something different from you. That is why I ask you to reread and then give Mr Klubobmann Kickl a call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e18379	I am of course very happy to come to the Minutes and will also take a very close look at the speech. The word now comes from Ing. Reinhold Einwallner. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e18414	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It was a bit to be feared that the debate on this item on the agenda was a little bit exaggerating, but in view of what I have been following in the last few minutes, I must say: Mr Klubobmann Kickl, as far as you are now leaving – that was already a very special achievement. I even suspect that there will be experts in Austria who can present a well-founded diagnosis to this of your speech, Mr. Klubobmann. I consider it intolerable – and I say that quite clearly – to make these comparisons with the 1930s, with the year 1934. I don't think that's in line with the facts at all. Already in the Committee's debate, there was the attempt of the liberals to equalize it by 1934, and this is what we point to. [[Congratulations on MEPs from SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] Mr President, this morning we held a very brief debate on the partyity of the Presidency. I would have liked you to take a step back from your party now, and I am already very excited about what decision you will make if you read through the stenographic protocol of this speech. I am also of the opinion that there were already sentences in this speech that deserved a call for order. Ladies and gentlemen, but now back to the subject: The trigger and the starting point for this package of law, which we are now discussing, was the terrible terrorist attack on 2nd. November. I think we're all agreed, cross-party, that we have to do everything, do everything we can to make such an incident like that on the 2nd. There is no longer any such thing in our country, as far as possible. At the same time, of course, we also recall the debate that was followed by the fact that one was not actually able to take on responsibility, but one has pushed back and forth responsibility – quite similar to what is happening now in this terrible murder that happened in Vienna –: It is shifted responsibility from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Justice. Then it was a little more extreme in the terrorist attack: At first one pushed the responsibility back and forth, and in the final effect one still had the feeling that the opposition was to blame for something that didn't work. This is the same thing you're trying to do now, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, you say you responded immediately and set up an investigative committee. – Yes, we were critical of what affected this Commission of Inquiry, but of course the Zerbes Commission has also expressed quite clearly and clearly. There have been many suggestions for improvement, but one of them the Zerbes Commission has also said: It does not actually need new framework conditions, but we must use and comply with the legal framework we have. – We didn’t do that, and that’s a problem we have and we had. Ladies and gentlemen, it was not because we do not have the legal possibilities, but rather because of the communication between the authorities, the exchange of information between the authorities. We heard: One knew a lot about the culprit from the 2nd century. November, but the information has not been bundled. This is the big problem, and therefore we also stick to our demand – regardless of the fact that we today agree to this anti-terrorism package – that more needs to be done: It needs a greater look at the security policy of this country, it needs a new security architecture, it needs a security policy coordination that looks different from now which works differently than now. There's got to be an anti-terrorism centre! I say it again and again: We need a platform through which experts constantly exchange at regular intervals in order to recognise the risk situations in terrorism well, to recognize early and to be able to act accordingly. It's, I think, very, very important that this is because it needs it. That is why we will not deviate from our call for an anti-terrorism centre either. Finally, only very briefly on the changes to the Citizenship Act. I believe that this is a gap that we must close, and that is why it is right. You'll remember that one reason why you're going to call the culprit from the 2nd century. It was because he had not yet actively participated in war acts, but was only on the way there. This is, of course, a gap that we have to close, and that is now being changed and corrected with the amendment to the Citizenship Act. One last sentence, Mr Klubobmann Kickl, on the debate we had on the symbol law: I'm also not sure if the symbol law is really effective, as it is now present – it's a pretty toothless tiger, you're right. I just want to remind you who made the last novel to the symbol law: That was a Mr. Kickl. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, eh!]] That was the last change of the symbol law according to the same pattern as is being done now. Now one is expanding it with the identities, and there is a remarkable fact that you have documented several times today that you stand up to the identities. [[Abg. Kickl: I am protecting myself from all those who have nothing to prove! That's the point!]] So I strongly reject the identities, and so do our party. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e18469	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Yannick Shetty. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e18494	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to what we are discussing at the heart of this debate and bring in another aspect which seems to me to be a little too lighted in this debate, namely the influence of this debate, which we have here today, and the legislative changes to integration and integration policy. What do we really want to do or what do we have to do when we say that we want integration to succeed? – On the one hand, we as a host society must create the conditions for migrants and refugees and for refugees that, if the will is there, they can be well integrated into Austria – for example, integration from day one would be such a strong key, and we know who has been blocking it ever since – but here we are on today’s subject, we must also be careful to ensure that in Austria, arriving people are not radicalised by extremists and by radicals under the protection of laws that are actually to protect the rule of law and freedom of religion, namely, that they are countered to our way of life by promoting women’s contempt, homophobia and hatred against dissidents, and that in the extreme case they also lead to violence or be incited to it. One thing is clear: There is nothing more toxic for successful integration than radicalization and extremism. We therefore consider it intolerable that in some – and this is the worst – well-known mosque people are radicalized by Hassprediger, among them also the perpetrator of Vienna. Let me also make it very clear to us Group of the European People's Party We don't want such a thing in mosques in Austria. As liberals, we always protect ourselves against the fundamental right to freedom of religion, but never should this fundamental right be misused for extremist purposes. Mr Scherak has already said: Our liberal democracy is defensive, and it is defensive against all its enemies. The State must have the opportunity to intervene in such extreme cases. This innovation also contributes to, but also to, more financial, more human transparency, and we expressly welcome this. It is, moreover, the very first step in this legislative period, which goes beyond show policy in this area. The best example of show is this unscrupulous Islam map – a meaningful project, an old project that has been completely removed from the scientific context and re-baptized into your hetzeric discourse. This not only causes the mood to be poisoned against Muslims in general, but it also leads to the fact that actually useful laws and projects like those here today are devalued by this unscrupulous ÖVP spin – in order to say it in your language. Because of your government actionism as in the Islam country map, there are only losers: on the one hand, Austrian Muslims, who are put downwards by the Chancellor; but also as a liberal society, we lose, because the medially excited coverage of the view of the actually existent, democratic and dangerous Islamic currents is adjusted. In conclusion: We therefore need an absolute paradigm change in this debate: no left-wing dreamers blind to Islamist extremism, nor right-wing hetzers who have only the problems and no solutions in their focus.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e18542	Magnificence comes to the fore. Johanna Jachs. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e18566	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Values Advisors! You know what you did on the night of the 2nd. Did the previous year take place on November? [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes!]] – I remember exactly: I was on the Ringstraße when countless police cars and helicopters suddenly appeared and I really met many people at the level of the opera who fled from the city center before the assassin. This evening we have shown that we live in Austria on no island of the Blessed, but unfortunately terrorism has also arrived in Austria. That is why I thank the Federal Government, which immediately made it clear after the attack, that we must continue to fight against the terrorists together, against these networks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear Opposition, I would also like to say something to your criticism today, which is almost a bit boring from this point of view, because perhaps because of the corona cluster around the investigation committee today there is hardly anyone there from you, but let me say one more to your criticism, especially to you, dear FPÖ: Your criticism is really trivial. Yes, we too are against illegal migration, yes, we are also in favour of secure immigration policy, but no, terrorism control is not as simple as you imagine it to be. That's what we're seeing today, because Razzien took place in Germany, that the global networks are that radicalization is also taking place with us. That is why it is important that we today decide on the anti-terrorism package on all points. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are pooling the competences in justice – justice will be supported by state protection in future in the case conferences, so we can work even more targetedly – we are adopting new rules on money laundering and much more. In the future, we will also deal with the implementation of measures, always with a goal, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen: We have no tolerance for those who attack our democracy, our fundamental values and our society. We stand together and offer terrorism the forehead.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e18615	We are talking about Dietmar Keck. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e18639	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This discussion has now again opened deep wounds to me – deep wounds, because in my family my grandma, two uncles and one aunt were killed by persecution and the escape to Austria only made my grandfather, my mother and a sister. When I got older, I often talked to my grandfather about this: Why did you flee to Austria, not Australia, America, or anywhere else? – He told me that because he considered Austria to be safe, because he considered Austria to be democratic and because he considered Austria to be a country in which everyone can live. That's the very attitude I've taken from him. He also told me one more thing, he said: You can stand up against everything and rebel against everything, but never resist democracy, because democracy is the steadfastness of our lives! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Gerstl.]] I have really internalized what he has said, ladies and gentlemen, and I am horrified at the discussion that is taking place today. It seems that democracy should be questioned again. When examples come that Leonidas has fought with 300 Spartans against 120,000 Persians because he has prevented armed soldiers from coming in, and one compares this with the present situation, ladies and gentlemen, I no longer know how to agree with all that has happened to my family. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I can only say one thing, ladies and gentlemen: It is sad for Austria to try to challenge democracy. I think it is extremely important to really look at all of us who come to us quite justly. If my family had not been considered as fair when it fled to Austria and had not been integrated – because they were foreigners at the time, they were migrants, if I compare them to today – then I would not stand here, ladies and gentlemen, and here really defend the democracy of Austria. [[Abg. Kassinger: Where did they come from?]] On these agenda items, too, very briefly: We also amend the driving licence law. It is only to be said briefly: Of course, in the case of terrorist offences, which are extended in the Criminal Code, the driving licence is to be accepted, as is the case with other criminal offences. One thing I really have to say now to the rescue of the Minister of the Interior: I have had a discussion with him on some issues in the last committee. He has promised me that he will make the answer in writing. That didn't happen at the time, but I can say the reason: He asked the National Police Director of Upper Austria to give me a speech and answer for all the questions I have asked. I can only say that's going to be the second time. August. It takes so long because holidays and the like come in between, but I have to say: He clearly kept his announcement, which he made. – Thank you for that too!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e18688	Next speaker is Dr. Christian Stocker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e18712	Mr President. Dear Minister of the Interior! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen at home! Austria was and is not an island of the Blessed, and terrorism threatens Western democracies and thus Austria and beyond. This terrorist package, this anti-terrorism package that we have here to vote on, deals with a lot of measures so that we can better combat this terrorism. [[Abg. Kickl: Lapsus linguae!]] In terms of content, it has already been presented. But one thing I would like to say here: For me, it is more than strange how the debate on a package of laws on state protection and civil protection is being used to draw completely unworthy historical comparisons in my eyes and raise accusations against the federal government that do not have any basis – and you, Mr. Klubobmann, should actually know that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I believe that what you have offered here today by the Freedom Party, even in the debate on the application, is encouraging me to believe that you have become a party to the danger unless you have already been. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Go!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] Dear Mr Klubobmann, you always want proof – I prove this to you: As Minister of the Interior, you broke down the BAT. [[Abg. Amesbauer: You are a party of hypocrites!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] They now accuse the Minister of the Interior of inability. – You have demonstrated your skills on this point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steger: That's why it was...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Tomorrow you will have the opportunity to fix this by giving your consent to the reform. [[Abg. Amesbauer: I will rethink my word from tomorrow!]] – Yes, Mr Amesbauer, it is -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e18830	Please, Mr Amesbauer, the microphone has turned off. – Just wait a minute, please! [[towards Abg. Stocker]] Mr Amesbauer, for this personal accusation I give you a call for order, and I ask that They return a little bit to reality. Please, Lord. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e18880	I repeat: They're a dangerous party. As an interior minister, you have threatened the security of the country, you just recently have threatened the health of all of us, with the corona party you celebrated, and today you are endangering with your discussion the confidence of the population in democracy and in parliamentarianism. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Worm: Take back hazards!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Worm: Take back hazards!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Amesbauer and Mr Steger.]] A last word also on the content [[Abg. Steger: The only word about the content, I would say!]] This package is too far away from you. This package is for you only show policy. The request you wanted to put forward in the debate on the application contains a source of difficulty – one that changes zero. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Your applicant has explained here that the reasons for the difficulties are not at all necessary, because everything is pictured for the objectionable reasons – even for this difficulty! You have nothing to do with this anti-terror package. In fact, they have nothing to do with content. You are worried about the identities – Mr. Klubobmann, yes, that is not your fault, I only tell you one, Mr. History Teacher: [[Abg. Kickl: I'm worried about democracy!]] The Spartans, among other things, have perished because they were too narrow in thinking. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Call the FPÖ: But there it looks dark with you too! That is where we have hope at the ÖVP!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] One word on social democracy – Mr Leichfried, one thing I would like to put forward at all: For me, this debate, which we have been holding all day long, is always related to the terrible events of the last few days and which is trying to strike political little money out of this terrible murder. [[Abg. Kickl: No, turn them away!]] That's unbearable what you're doing here! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] As regards the right of asylum, because a system error has been detected – it is quite simple: Anyone who does not have a residence permit here and does not leave voluntarily is to be postponed – either way, in January or now. [[Abg. Kickl: Go!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riser]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Please tell the Minister!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bürstmayr.]] I already say one thing about social democracy: You always hang your red flag only after the day-political wind, even if it hangs on half mast after the party day, you hang your flag only after the wind. You have made a proposal here in this House, on this pult, to the Citizenship Act, for which you would probably now be generating yourself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Yes, well – hopefully you would be enjoying yourself! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the same time, you have just had enough votes for a deportation stop, but for your own party no longer – I can understand it, but you have to deal with it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: If anyone is to generate, then you...!]] And one thing I say, too: Even though the temperatures today are very high due to the weather – with heat, we won't win anything for this country. A cool head and a quiet hand are necessary. I think this is the case with the Minister of the Interior, I am grateful for that, and I am also grateful to all those who have participated in this package against terrorism.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e19105	It is now possible to speak. Hannes Amesbauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e19127	Mr President. What Mr Stocker has now mentioned cannot be contradicted here as a final word either. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is clear what has been going through the ÖVP since the beginning of today's session: First of all, Mr Stocker, you can see that the anti-terrorism package is nothing at all for you, because you know that it is nothing in content, and because here again you are spreading this history of Corona, a most personal story. Yesterday, as you can see from the medium Zackzag, you were with the greens at the coalitionshering, have drunk there – yes, is okay, that's your good right, is nice, is your right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jewel beater.]] The police, although it was a private event that supposedly monitored everything, controlled entrance lists and guest lists. And now I'm telling you one thing, Mr Stocker: If You are putting all the party's voters at risk of security in Austria, on the one hand because of Corona, on the other hand in the field of terrorism, when you say Mr Kickl ruined the BAT – you were at the negotiations which, and this can confirm Mr Mahrer, were very, very good – then I will now consider whether I will keep my speech as consistent as I have planned tomorrow. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Jewelry beater: That doesn't bring you anything!]] They're not about security. You know very well that the black party book economy has destroyed the BVT for almost two decades. Read the Berne Club's report, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is a joke to say that, with 700 000 voters in the last election, we are endangering security. And this comes from the party with the Minister of the Interior, who was in office when the terrorist attack took place when the murder took place now, when Turkish-Kurdish crabs and beatings took place in favourites to name just a few highlights! This way of acting here and taking this important anti-terrorism issue into account is a shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e19210	It follows a actual correction of Dr. Stocker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e19235	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, [[Abg. Worm: Excuse me! Excuse the dead girl!]] Mr Amesbauer has said here that I would have been at an event yesterday, where I would have been drunk. I'm actually correcting: I was at an event, but I remained sober. Mr Amesbauer, as the Schelm thinks he is.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e19285	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. Do the clubs want a break? - That's not the case either. We are now coming to the votes I shall take separately from each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft federal law amending the Federal Law on the Legal Personality of Religious Confessions and the Islamic Law 2015, including the title and entry into 850 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Jörg Leichtfried, colleagues on ‘Protection of personal data/religion atlas/Similar treatment of all religious communities’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the minority. The application is rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft anti-terrorism law in 849 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Steinacker, Mag. Mr Prammer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Dr Scherak. I will therefore first vote on the parts of the proposed amendment and on the request for separate vote, following the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Steinacker, Mag. Prammer, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment concerning the table of contents. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall proceed to the separate vote on a point of order. 1 Z 3 as amended by the Government template. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign of approval. – This too is largely accepted. Deputies Mag. Steinacker, Mag. Prammer, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 1 Z 6. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the separate vote on a point of order. 1 Z 9 as amended by the Government template. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This too is largely accepted. Deputies Mag. Steinacker, Mag. Mr Prammer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment relating to Articles 2 to 5. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Request by the Justice Committee to take note of its report 978 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Draft concerning 20. FSG-Novelle, including title and entry in 848 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously and therefore also unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Draft federal law amending the National Citizenship Act 1985 and the Symbol Act, including title and entry into 854 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Herbert Kickl, ladies and gentlemen, on ‘No citizenship award to asylum seekers and Turkish citizens’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. However, I am interrupting the meeting by 15 a.m. to conduct the planned meeting of a question answer. [[The sitting was suspended at 14.57 a.m. and resumed at 14.59 p.m.]] [[14:59:45]] Short debate: ‘Training of masks in education’
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e19521	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I welcome the meeting and ask you to take the places, because we are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Research with the order number 5760/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. On the basis of a request from the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, I must say that at temperatures such as these, a minister does not necessarily have to carry the sacco, as many of them do in the house. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. Mrs Katharina Kucharovich has now been mentioned. No, I'm sorry, Mr Hermann Brückl. – I may ask you to take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e19570	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! Ladies and gentlemen of this Parliament! We have put to you, Mr Federal Minister, a parliamentary question on the subject of "the wearing of masks in teaching". We wanted to know, among other things, how wearing masks affects the development of young people. We wanted to know from you how an increased CO2 concentration under the mask affects the attention, the learning ability of young people. You, Mr Federal Minister, or this Federal Government, ÖVP and Greens, have ordered our children, our young people, to wear a mask in teaching. We have always been opposed because we felt that there are other possibilities, and this mask wearing was a massive, heavy burden on the students. You, Mr Federal Minister, answered this question, but, among other things, most of these questions were not actually answered, but only referred to the Rules of Procedure Act 1975, according to which “the right to question [...] is subject only to acts and omissions”; or it means: The questions “are not within the scope of the Federal Minister for Education”. Mr Federal Minister, you have ordered our students to wear masks during teaching time, and I assume you have informed yourself in advance of the impact of this mask on the state of health, the psyche and the physics of our students. But obviously you did not, because you have remained guilty of answers here, just like that – I have this impression – in this black and green government program, you do not have to give any answers. There are no answers to these questions, which we have asked to wear, but there are also no answers to a planned school business in the autumn. The past one and a half years, High House, have been a torture for parents, for students and for teachers alike, a quailery, a martyrdom, a plague, a punishment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tashner.]] The measures taken by Turquoise and Greens, school closures, masquerading and test madness, have caused our children to be severely inhibited in their education progress, have led to educational losses, and have caused students to lose their daily structure because they have lost their motivation. The school closures also led to students being united, and also poverty of movement was a consequence. Fears and disorders have increased dramatically among young people – I just think that every fifth to sixth student now has thoughts of suicide, which is really dramatic. This increase in fears and disorders is particularly due to the fact that, in the course of the crisis, ÖVP and Greens have put in place measures aimed solely at frightening children, but also parents and grandparents. [[Abg. Tashner: No!]] This narrative of fear is still inside the children today, and you won't get that out anymore! That's the problem, High House. What we have asked questions – questions you have not answered us – has not only led to massive strains on the students, but also, above all, to parents who have been subjected to multiple burdens. The concerns about the survival of their own children were huge, the multiple burden with regard to distance learning in combination with home office, the question of care – how do we care for our children? – all these were questions that asked themselves and to which there were no answers. On the question, Mr Federal Minister, you have not given any answers, including us, with regard to wearing the mask, whether you have thought about it in advance. And just as you have remained guilty of the answers there, you will remain guilty of these answers also with regard to the start of school in autumn. Instead of ensuring a proper school business and giving the parents, students and teachers safety and planning, I fear that you will work in your ministry: How can we prepare the next school lockdown? How can we overcome this school lockdown? You leave the students, you leave the parents, you leave the teachers in doubt. The only thing, Mr Federal Minister, that I read over and over again is the question of vaccination. So you recommend vaccination. We have now set up vaccination centres in the schools. – I also think that this is a wrong approach, because the WHO is now no longer recommending vaccination of among 14-year-olds. When I read about Prof. Dr. Zeitlinger from the University of Vienna, he thinks that you should start with the vaccination as early as possible, namely already with the six-month-old infants, then I think this is also very worrying. I think this is a wrong access and the wrong way. Mr Federal Minister, you know, we have always, if we have criticized something, presented solutions and made proposals. You know, we have made the proposal to ensure education by using air cleaners. On this question, I can say that the opposition is also agreed, all three parties. For almost a year, we have been calling for their use, because they enable a class without tests and without a mask. Mr Federal Minister, you have spent 139 million euros on the tests or this government. We could have invested this money in such a way that all classrooms in this country could have been equipped with room air cleaners, with partitions, so that a class without a test force, without a mask obligation, is possible. But, Mr Federal Minister, we have also put forward proposals on the question of educational losses or blocks in education, how we can cope with this in autumn, that there is a guarantee of education on the one hand, but on the other hand also creates additional capacity to catch up with these shortages of education: A class division in the core subjects related to the respective school type for the duration of two years was/is one of our proposals. Another proposal is that we want you to hold block events at the beginning of the school year for the duration of four weeks. More staff is needed to do this. Yes, we know that too, Minister of State, but with regard to this staff, I can hold the following for you: There has now been a press release in which private educational institutions have offered themselves to provide staff that can vote. There are up to 1,000 teachers available, says a single remedial institution. Of course, the use of teaching students is also an access. You have to pay it properly, you have to use it because it also serves to enable them to gain practice and experience. Moreover, I am now again on the question of the duration of training for teachers, Mr. Federal Minister – and we have already mentioned this –: Six years of education to be able to teach in a primary school or in a primary school, in a new secondary school, are too long, this is unattractive for every individual teacher. This is also the reason why fewer and fewer young people, less and less young maturants, choose to take up the teacher's profession. Mr Federal Minister, the expansion of the summer school will be necessary in many areas. Pre-scientific work is also something that has heavily occupied us especially in the Corona era and in the Corona crisis, because a pre-scientific work represents a very, very great effort for the students. Prescientific work can be abandoned. Create They simply do pre-scientific work, they are not necessary! Matura, semi-central Matura: This is also an access from us, we have said: Let's make the Matura so that the basic knowledge is centrally questioned, and the rest, everything that goes beyond that, should make the schools autonomous on site! On investment in digital infrastructure: Mr Federal Minister, I know you have invested a lot, but obviously too little, because the infrastructure is not complete, especially in the field of server capacity, in the field of lines, whatever technology belongs to it. There are many schools that can actually follow up and follow up and not guarantee proper education. The excuse, Minister of State, we must observe the infection in autumn, which I do not allow to apply. The schools, which is proven to be so, were never the drivers of infection. Education is possible with the right measures. One more thing, dear ÖVP: Please stop the fright, stop the fear of the population! Don't make our children constantly Fear, don't scare parents and teachers! Do not blame them if they are not willing to be vaccinated today, for that is a personal decision of every individual! Mr Federal Minister, give the parents security, give them planning, take on our proposals or some of our proposals! We expect answers from you now. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e19618	Mr Fässmann is speaking on behalf of the Federal Minister. I can give him the word. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e19639	Mr President. High house! Mr Brückl, thank you for your statement with a broad potpourri on issues that you have addressed. I remain in my reply to the parliamentary question which you, Mr Hauser and Mr Brückl, have addressed to me. In the end, I believe that, in the end, the common goal is to keep a functional school open in the pandemic, because we both or we all know that a school teaches children and young people education, training, but also offers social contacts and thus a social restraint and is therefore so extremely important. I would also like to stress, Mr Brückl, that we have never had a general duty to carry the oral nostrils protection, even in the public school. I have been very responsible, for example, in the public school it was not necessary at all, but only in the higher ages, in secondary education I and II, and, Mr. Brügl, as soon as it allowed the epidemiological situation, I was the first to say that we can make the mask. We left them out in Austria much earlier than our German neighbours did. I'm proud of that, because that was a real decision. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] One thing is clear, however, the oral nose protection is an instrument of pandemic control. He is a much more relaxed means of home schooling or shifting or even closed schools. I have always arranged the wearing of a mouth-nose protection only if it was necessary for health policy. The Ministry of Health has clearly supported us, because there is also the competence to say when it is necessary. In your parliamentary question, you have asked a number of questions which are certainly not the subject of execution and which do not fall within the competence of my house. Whether the development of the young people's brain – I quote from your request – has matured between 14 and 18 years of age or whether young people are more sensitive to any lack of oxygen than adults or which chemicals can emerge from the FFP2 masks and cause health problems, my house cannot answer. [[Abg. Kassinger: You don't know that, and yet do you prescribe a mask obligation?- Oh, my God!]] . I do not want to have to give my house a good opinion on these issues. This does not fit what a Federal Ministry of Education, Science and Research is doing. However, I can answer you in terms of content. Firstly, the Austrian Society for Children's and Youth Medicine recommends hygiene measures, including oral nose protection and regular tests; secondly, the Health Working Party of the Covid-19 Future Operation Platform also recommends wearing the oral nose protection in the following words: “What the house mind suggests that a properly worn, clean NMS can reduce the spread of viruses or viruses [...] is supported by an ever-increasing number of studies and systematic reviews [...].” Thirdly, The study by Tatiana Filonet’s “Investigation of the Efficiency of Mask Wearing, Contact Tracing, and Case Isolation during the Covid-19 Outbreak” – published in the renowned journal “The Lancet” – says: Our model and the results achieved show that wearing medical masks or other forms of masks is useful for combating pandemics by a larger population group. The benefit depends on the correct wearing, the duration of wearing and the frequency of switching. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, CDC, also a very renowned and prominent institution, go even so far that they recommend wearing masks in the public for children from two years old. WHO and Unicef recommend wearing masks from 12 to 11 years of age under the same conditions as for adults, i.e. if there is a “widespread transmission in the area” as well as wearing masks in children from six to eleven years of age when children can wear masks, are supervised by adults and, in particular, go to school. Mr Brückl, you can push all of this away and bask your own world, but that will not lead to anything, because these are very renowned institutions that have given us clear recommendations. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Mr Brückl, I would also be glad if the research situation on other questions was as clear as the question of whether wearing a mouth-nose protection would be useful. But now back to your parliamentary question 5807/J! I see your point and your question, Mr Hauser, as to how long the mask should be worn continuously in everyday school. – My answer is: By no means continuous and throughout the day of school, I am of your opinion; it always depends on proportionality. We have therefore also stated in our Covid Regulation: ‘When wearing a breath protection mask [...], a carrying break shall be maintained at least once a hour during the ventilation period referred to in Z 3.1.’ Then you asked me further – your question 4 b –: What happens if the mask breaks are not observed? – Well, my answer is: Regulations are to be complied with, and infringements of the Regulation are an illegal behaviour of those responsible and would also have labour-related consequences as a consequence. But you have to say, it has never come that far. In practice, the mask wearing and mask breaks were handled very responsibly. My confidence in the wisdom of the teachers is unbroken, even at this point. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The measures taken last semester have led Austria to have been able to show a significant increase in attendance school days – more than our neighbouring countries. As a matter of principle, Mr Brückl, I have to say it again and again – the systematic and continuous testing. We have thus been able to break the sharp rise in the third wave. Thus, no other population group has been continuously tested. And with the positive test results, we always had cases with parents and siblings, which was an essential instrument that helped to combat the pandemic. Also helped with the early teacher and teacher vaccination and, again, I must say, of course wearing a mouth-nose protection in secondary education I and II. We hope that we can enjoy the higher level of school presence and that we should also strive to do so, in which we – Mr. Brückl, Mr. Hauser – agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e19696	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the I should like to draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is now 5 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e19717	Mr President. Estimated Minister of Education! Estimated colleagues in particular the FPÖ! We have been discussing the issue of Corona policy and what is the red thread in the field of education for a long time. I think it's always funny that the party that acts at the most arbitrary level will somehow meet with this red thread. I mean, to speak in student language now, the corona policy of the FPÖ looks like a teenage room, after the parents have been on vacation for two weeks – pure chaos, once too much, once too little, once nothing at all, once everything. No one knows you anymore, and I am really glad that we are in the government and not you. [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and Members of the Green Group.]] The red thread can be explained very quickly, he calls himself science. We have just listened to the recommendations of the ÖGKJ study, the so-called Drost study, on masquerade duty in school – the Minister mentioned it – and I believe that this is the better guide in such a crisis than the expertise of the esteemed colleague Belakovich. [[Abg. Loacker: But not FFP 2!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] I find it really interesting, also politically, that you are sending out this debate today with criticism of hygiene measures. I would like to address it again, because it really, really upsets me: Mr. Hafenecker will be informed on Friday in the morning that he has been tested positively, and on Monday this House will be informed that this is the case. [[Abg. Hauser: Now comes the same lead again!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign]] And the Secretary-General then says as a reason: It wasn't a workday in between, and the like. That's from the old clothes collection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] It is not only about our health – I believe it is also a good thing – but also about the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate and the various clubs. I simply believe that we as politicians must be an example and should not justify and approve this with dubious reasons. This is really beyond good and evil! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Dear FPÖ! Freedom does not mean egoism, and recklessness is not a synonym of self-responsibility either. [[Abg. Kassinger: on the Rules of Procedure, Mr President.]] I think we should simply trust science, we should try to do certain things in a collegial way, with the highest goal of serving the country and also looking at our health. I still wish colleagues Hafenecker and with all my heart good improvement. I sincerely wish the students in this country that they will have a better sense of science in school, that they will have a sense of what sources you can trust and that they cannot understand this policy, and that they will also be immune to the weapons of mass confusion of the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e19822	Mr Kassinger spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e19849	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! For the time being, Mr President, Mr Marchetti, for the time being, on the part of the ÖVP, has addressed the issue of docks in the context of an item on the agenda, which has absolutely nothing to do with it. I would like to ask you politely to make intensive use of your right to call on matters, because otherwise we do not need all the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e19889	Does anyone else want to speak for business treatment? – That's not the case. I should then like to ask Mr Kucher. – You have the floor, Mr deputies, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e19921	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I didn't want to deal with the subject, but this hack between ÖVP and FPÖ we're already experiencing all day, so let me have a few words on it. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: You got something anyway!]] I do not think that all of us in Austria is going to continue, because we have been experiencing, in fact, for months now that two Poles are defining the debate, even in this parliamentary question. On the one hand, you have Kickl with his team, who say that there is no such thing, and Corona, when you talk about it for a long time and you're talking about it, simply isn't there; you can somehow want it away, you just negate everything. On the other hand, Sebastian Kurz, who is at least as loose. There is the feeling that he has been a bit far away for too long in the Federal Chancellery and from the reality of life, so that he does not get to know what is at his heart in Austria, what is happening. [[Call the ÖVP:Hello!]] Today we experienced it in the early days, then the health speaker Gaby Schwarz will be sent out again and must defend and fight, saying that Austria would have come through the crisis better than others, but that is not true, which is difficult. [[Abg. Tashner: Well, yes!]] Yes, there will be a few states – you are absolutely right – that have come through the crisis even worse. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: There are a lot, please nice!]] But of course you can see that even today you have been very difficult to defend this course by Sebastian Kurznoch. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: No!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: We're different from the SPÖ, we're not in the crisis!]] The next victim, I have to say, is then Minister Fäsmann, who came to Parliament a few years ago as a scientist. You've noticed how you've been sucked together when Nico Marchetiges said: The red thread in the crisis management of the Federal Government is science. – You did not want to believe that completely, because of course, a lot was driven by message control and party policy. We know this from expert hearings that there have been scientists who have said: [[Abg. Tashner: This is the look in the mirror, my dear!]] I don't want to be in the Federal Chancellor's advisory staff anymore, because populism and PR are more important than crisis management! [[Abg. Kassinger: This is even less than the subject of the ÖVP, which has to be brought together once!]] Why do I say all that? [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] We don't all get better by explaining to each other how super Sebastian is short, we should also talk about facts and not about animation in the ÖVP environment. [[Call to the ÖVP: Was there also a hafi's drink?]] Obviously, dramatic mistakes in crisis management have happened. We will not all be better if we negate them, and it would be important for crisis management to be improved in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Salzmann.]] I therefore ask the Federal Minister that we all do not make the mistakes of last year again. You might remember: Inspired by the excursions of Sebastian Kurcin's Kleinwalsertal, where he has enjoyed himself in a relaxed mood, one has slept a little while the last summer and is then unprepared into the autumn, with dramatic consequences for the economy, for many, many people, for the nursing homes, but also for the schools. That's why I'm asking you not to forget about the schools again, that's really about existence! Last autumn we experienced that only weeks after school – you can't imagine that: Weeks after school! – the Ministry of Health and Education has considered: What do we do if there is a positive coronafall in school? So weeks after school one has come to believe that one can clarify and accord these processes with one another; obviously, the summer has unfortunately been slept. [[Abg. Tashner: Kucher doesn't live in Austria, it seems to me!]] Therefore, let us take advantage of this discussion today and try not to explain to each other how great crisis management is – that does not even believe the ÖVP again – but let us consider how we can really bring about good crisis management in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Salzmann.]] Finally, because it is so important to me to the rules here in the house: It is about democratic rules of play in the response to the question that I could be annoyed forever. Mr President Sobotka, once we have time in the summer, I will bring you a few documents on how sluggish so many parliamentary questions are answered; you do not believe that. I'm going to mark this with the text marker, Mrs Tanner is in the front. Sebastian Kurz's answers have been getting sloppy ever since he had an employee who was very concerned about how the inquiries were handled. Obviously, there is an employee who is trying to pummel and deceive. We should talk about how parliamentary questions are handled in Austria, and we should all return to a good style. The last point that is very important – again towards ÖVP – is: [[Abg. Salzmann: Do you have anything to say, Philip?]] The rules we have apply to all of us. That is, if there are questions, I ask that these be answered properly. One cannot change the rules again and again when it comes to EIA politicians. We all have to tell the truth; only because Sebastian Kurz speaks anything in the investigation committee can we not say: Let us take away the duty of truth! I think all people in Austria are just before the law, the rules should apply to all people, and if we expect students to answer the questions in schoolwork properly, then the Federal Minister will probably also be able to answer parliamentary questions properly. [[Abg. Salzmann: So this is a thematic mistake now!]] I'm really asking: Same rules for all people in Austria! We in politics should also be a model, so I ask that we can save ourselves such discussions in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e20178	Member of the Court of Auditors, again for business treatment? - No, not. I wanted to ask if there was a business treatment unit again. Mr Hauser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e20207	Mr President. Estimated Minister! High house! Only for the spectators: We are in the debate on the subject of education and on my question on masculine duty, specifically on FFP2 masculine duty at upper level. [[Abg. Tashner: Right!]] I'll get you together. The SPÖ has managed not to speak a single word on the subject of school here from the panel in 5 minutes, just as colleague Marchetti has been dealing with colleagues Hafenecker – for the x-th time today – knowing that the cluster does not come from colleagues Hafenecker. [[Congratulation with the FPÖ, as well as applause and bravoruf at the ÖVP]] [[Call the ÖVP: No one knows!]] The slander won't be better if you repeat it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Tashner: “Vamation” is a bit of a strong bit!]] Ladies and gentlemen, come back to the subject. Mr Fassmann, you know that we have always held a technical discussion with you. They have now accused us of having a world of our own throughout the whole of Corona policy. I really want to disprove this argument. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, the world is not always the way you see it. You can't just see science with one eye. There's also enough science that constantly fades you out. And it is not true that only your science is valid and correct, but it would be important to have a scientific discourse also on the FFP2 masks and on the questions I have asked to you, Mr. Minister, such as: [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Are the FFP2 masks harmful to health? This question must be allowed. As Minister of Education, they ordered the wearing of the upper-level masks, and they had to be worn under obligation. We have always been interested in the question of how it actually is with oxygen intake when the masks are carried with small breaks throughout. How does this affect the development of the brain in children? – This question is also discussed in science. We have addressed these questions to you, only the answers, Mr. Minister, we do not consider them to be inconvenient. I am allowed to quote from this answer to questions 1 to 3 and 6 – exactly the questions that concern the FFP2 masks et cetera. They point out that we are “reasonable according to art. 52 B-VG’ and that the requests are not appropriate to obtain legal opinions from the Federal Ministries. They say: “Frequent questions that aim to establish a state of affairs in medical and other matters. the assessment of health-related aspects does not fall within the scope of the Federal Minister’. – Then I ask you, Minister: How can you state by regulation that in the upper level the FFP2 mask is mandatory if you cannot answer the question? I think that's really grossly negligent. You have now quoted the WHO on a regular basis. What does the WHO actually say about the FFP2 masks? – WHO says that wearing FFP2 masks for normal citizens is not at all in question, even for children, and, if at all, only in specific medical areas. That's what the WHO says. If you're quoting WHO, please quote right! The WHO says exactly the opposite of what has been made credible by you here today. If you were to implement the WHO judgment, you could never order an FFP2 masquerade duty. Also very up-to-date: Handelsblatt.com reported on 23.6. on what manufacturers of FFP2 masks say about whether they are suitable for children or not. I'll give you the tip: Look at this report! I quote only one manufacturer; and there were many manufacturers of FFP2 masks that usually insist on selling their product. They say: “From our point of view, this is absolutely not meaningful.” – The manufacturer! – “The manager points out that FFP masks are a work protection product and have been developed for professional users.” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] Furthermore, wearing must also be practiced, which cannot be ordered so easily. This is scientific expertise, ladies and gentlemen, who permanently hide you. What else happened? – The masks that our students wear have never been tested. After all, by law you have suspended the Medical Products Act with § 113a. Appreciate Seers! You need to know that normally every medical product before it comes to the market needs to be tested. That wasn't checked. That is, the products, the masks, also the FFP2 masks that our children wear have never been tested because the Medical Products Act has been repealed. In this context, I should like to say -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e20292	Mr Hauser, your speaking time has already expired. I would therefore ask you to conclude. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e20307	My final sentence: I'm allowed to quote Univ.-Prof. Dr. Franz Allerberger of the Ages, who says: [[a table holding the title quoted below in height]] It is a bankruptcy declaration that medical devices are not validated in Austria! – Please, this is what the responsible Ages Managing Director Allerberger says: It is a bankruptcy declaration that medical devices are not validated! Mr Minister, I really ask you to think about it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e20354	Mr Hamann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e20375	Mr President! Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Hauser requested that the matter be discussed here. - I'd love to do the favor. We are talking about the matter, the masks and the problem that the FPÖ apparently has with masks. The FPÖ does not want to wear masks, we have now understood that we also see quite clearly every day on which you sit here. [[Abg. Deimek: Do you say this to me? Do you say that to us, most gracious?]] The FPÖ does not want to test either, has already made public fun of how the tests work. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] The FPÖ doesn't want to vaccinate either, at least some of you – you don't always know each other completely. And as we have heard today, FPÖ also argues that Corona is a disease at all. I'm a little surprised today, too. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Cheerfulness and continuing calls at the FPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] All this could be quite no matter if you as a FPÖler meet exclusively on any FPÖ planet, where you only have to do with each other, you can only infect each other and then take care of each other if you get sick. [[Abg. Deimek: The Greens bring the disease here to an event!]] But that's not the case, because you don't live on a FPÖ planet – I now have every appreciation of whether it's good or bad – you live in a city or in a village, you come to the plenary, you're sitting in committees, and Your children also go to school. [[Abg. Deimek: Don't you understand?]] Can I explain something to you? – Whenever If you meet someone outside your FPÖ environment, the society means that there is a social environment, it's about other people. [[Abg. Deimek: Yes, it doesn't do anything!]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] And when you have to deal with other people, you need something that seems to be very difficult for you to take into account others. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Deimek: And if you can't wear a mask, what is it?]] Your request is now about the masks in the schools, and you can listen to me for a moment. It is true that children had to wear masks at times in schools, in different intensity, depending on the situation of infection – the minister also performed it – different in different age groups, the younger, the less. Why? – Because in some situations it is a sensible measure. [[Abg. Deimek: Why doesn't your speaker wear a mask when she goes to an event sick?]] It is quite right that this was not always pleasant for children, just as it is for us when we sit here, even if it is not always pleasant. But now I'm going to tell you something: The children have done this in contrast to you! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You've done better than you, much better, they've taken care of each other. They have listened to reasonable arguments and have understood that if you live in a society with others, you have to be careful and look after each other. [[Abg. Deimek: And what does that have to do with the mask type?]] The fact that one has to look at the weaker, the children have also understood better than you, and that one has to stick together in an extreme situation in order to overcome a crisis. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ: The Greens make everyone sick!]] I would now like to take the opportunity to apologise first of all for all children and young people, whom we had to assume in some stages; it was not pleasant. And at the same time, I'm saying thank you for doing this so great and so reasonable. I say: The FPÖlers here in the house could still learn a lot from you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e20589	MEP Künsberg Sarre has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e20611	Mr President. Minister! High house! I am now very grateful for this debate at the start of the holiday. I actually thought we were taking a constructive look into the autumn. What's going on here today, even as my previous speaker de facto is shooting at FPÖ, is a pity. We NEOS have always been for open schools – you know – and this has also connected us or continues to connect us. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Except in Vienna!]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer:... Mr. Again!]] Our goal is that children and young people can go to school at the start of the school unimpeded and safely. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Why do we want that? – Because in the last one and a half years, children and young people have left out quite a lot and have not experienced much, such as school skiing courses and other school events, and because all children and young people have a right to education and we cannot keep it from them. [[Abg. Michael Hammer:... in Vienna...!]] That is to say, we should finally focus on the children and young people and not resort to the other parties. Once we have to come up with constructive solutions. The Federal Government has slept last summer, made some mistakes. I hope she took lessons from it. You don't usually make a mistake twice. The task of the Federal Government – and I am now saying extra federal government, because I know that you are very keen to have the schools open, but that requires even more, namely your colleagues: [[towards ÖVP]] They now have to take action and consider how schools can be open, so that children and young people can also look forward to the start of school and not always float this damocles sword of closed schools, distance learning or shifting over them. What are you doing? – In the last plenary session, you once again granted a regulation for the whole of the next school year, so that you can continue and apply the Corona exception arrangements without involving us. But I miss something. These derogations exist, but otherwise you have not received anything from us, and Mr Hamann has not had anything at all to do with what might change in the autumn so that children and young people can get better. [[towards Federal Minister Fässmann]] You've been strapping science now. [[Abg. Tashner: We don't strap, we use them!]] Yes, there are recommendations regarding masks, but you have not said that it is not about FFP2 masks – of course they are not recommended for schools – and that we are the only country – at least as far as I know – where FFP2 masks need to be worn in schools. So you and Mr Marchetti should also say that if you quote so many experts. Once again – I think you have to remember that again and again –: Masks in class are not the normal state, the shift operation is not the normal state, and also the failure of school events is not normal state in school. We may easily get used to it. It's easy to say: They have done well, then they should continue to wear masks!, but it is not the normal state, and we must finally get to the point that we are focusing on the fact that this does not have to be used to children and young people in school in autumn. I didn't hear anything. Minister Mückstein has recently said that he is in good exchange with Minister Fassmann. - Yeah, that's great, that's nice, I'm glad. But it's a little bit. We need a little more concrete once, and above all we need ideas for a virus-roubed school in autumn. Now, unlike last year, there is vaccination for adults. I think there's air up there. From my point of view, it would be useful for as many adults as possible to opt for vaccination, as the more adult people around children and young people have been vaccinated, the better, of course, for children and young people. The second is the air cleaning equipment, which we have repeatedly proposed since the last spring. That's what it always said: We don't need them because fresh air is the best! – Yeah, yeah, but in some situations it may be useful to think about it. Minister Mückstein, I think, has just said that they are still under examination. I don't know how long you're checking. It's not understandable to me. So the motto from last summer: Wait and see, let's see what it's like in autumn, and then let's decide!, that's been in the pants last year. The goal must be that we are finally focusing on children and young people. Last year we have rightly put the older generation in focus and looked at them very much. Now, however, it is necessary that we finally focus on children and young people.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e20693	Ladies and gentlemen, the speaking time has already significantly exceeded. May I ask you to come to a close?
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e20720	That's our job. It is not about who does what, but it needs constructive proposals, and I also expect them from the Greens.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e20747	Thank you. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I would like to thank the Federal Minister. [[15:45:27]] 8. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (939 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Contracting Servants Act 1948, the Procurement Act 1989 and the Federal Service Protection Act (Service Law Novelle 2021) (1002 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e20780	We continue with the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e20808	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Yes, it's about public service law. There are some improvements in teleworking, an approximation of home office regulations to the private sector. That's all good and right. The Krux is something different, as is the case with the occupations in the public service and the question of whether a post has to be issued. So far, public service posts have only been issued if no one has first found a suitable person internally. But now it will also be possible to write out publicly before doing this internal search. Well, if you've made it up internally, then you can also see that it gets the right ones. They used to ask: Do we have anyone who can? Now you're just asking: Do we have anyone for it? Above all, the EIAs are showing up when it comes to raising their people to posts on which they have actually lost nothing. We all know different chats. However, it is now also documented for the first time in court, as the ÖVP is pushing posts, on the example of the Board of Directors of the financial office Braunau/Ried/Schärding in Upper Austria. That's where the Federal Administrative Court found the black on white. That was a shameless, rather broken post-chacher. In this apparently objective procedure with a seemingly objective evaluation commission, not the long-standing, experienced representative of the leader to be retired as the best-suited, but the objectively unfit ÖVP mayor of a small community. The inferior candidate has trusted something that few trust: On the other hand, she has acted on a judicial basis – only because she has taken this step, you already deserve our respect, because many do not trust it – and she has got right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer]] She's one of the few who had the strength to defend herself, and she's got right. The “Kronen Zeitung Oberösterreich” literally writes that “in the judgment some members of the Assessment Commission are discussed in the application procedure, as is the apparent lack of proximity of the applicant [...] to the ÖVP and the indication of her ‘indesirableness’.” It spoke “no objective and objective criterion” for those who then became it. This is post-chacher of the black-Turkish ÖVP in Upper Austria, legally documented. Well, you don't count what you can do, but who you know is in the financial office or in many national government offices in Upper Austria, but also in many other federal states. The Vorarlberg head of state recently provided his office as head of a legal department. Although she has studied political sciences and has no leadership experience, she is now allowed to lead a legal department with 61 noses. Yeah, that's the way it is at the ÖVP. But we need the best people in the public service, not the Turkish people, and I therefore propose the following amendment: [[Abg. Hear: Hello!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] By the way, that was already the case between 1991 and 1996. This internal invitation to tender then became mandatory, and this was justified by the great effort it had to make to deal with external candidates. This is, of course, no longer a valid argument in the IT age, because today the writing to the applicants creates a computer program automatically. I assume that you understand the matter and therefore agree with it. - Thank you. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Yildirim.]] [[15:49]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e20930	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. I should like to welcome the Minister of Staff and Vice-Chancellor to us. Mrs Blimlinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's The word stands with her. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e20963	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is about the innovation of the BDG, the VBG and the tender law. The really central point is that the rules relating to the Home Office for Officials and Contractors are the same as those for the private sector. In the BDG and VBG, the somewhat ancient term telework is still in use. That is, telework – speak Home Office – was already possible at a time when this was actually even more or less forbidden in the private sector or employers did not want it. There was always the strange picture that when you're in the home office or you do telework, you don't work – and that's why people have to sit in the offices. This has been fundamentally changed by Corona God and the regulations have been adapted in this regard. That means, for example, it is possible that the official who uses her own IT equipment – that is always a security issue – and for this, as well as in the private sector, receives an effort compensation. The second area, which my previous speaker mentioned, concerns the issue of calls for tenders, i.e. the amendment of the procurement law. This is about the fact that over the next five to ten years, so to speak, about half of the Federal officials – officials, contract staff – will be retired or retired. A system with which it is possible to react faster and more flexible needs to be established. We know, and I do not want to argue that there is something like nepotism in the Federal Service, as in all other areas, there and there – but that is of course nothing that will become worse by changing the tender law. On the contrary, it is much more possible to show flexibility and create more transparent criteria. It will not be possible to prevent it altogether, you know. Above all, in view of the need to find suitable employees, the central point is that it should actually be within the authority's sovereignty to decide whether it is first internally – whether it is really internal or federally – and then externally advertised. This means that there should also be invitations to tender in the smaller units – in other words, where you actually know how it works. Of course, we support this very much in order to enable this flexibility and to act with the perspective of finding suitable staff for retired and retired federal staff. By the way, I still believe that the Windisch-Kaserne should be renamed Richard-Wadani-Kaserne. [[Abg. Hörl:... the army history...!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e20997	I call Mr Yildirim. The word stands with her. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e21019	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin my speech with a thank you, and I would like to thank the public service staff very much: for keeping the country running in the Covid-19 crisis; for proving in difficult times how low resources they can be used efficiently and flexibly. I remember, in the context of all those women and men who worked in the health system, all those in the security area, the police officers, who have also put their health at risk, because at first even protective devices or means were missing. I recall how flexible and efficient the staff of the financial offices worked, and how the AMS was involved in the short-term work model, or just how jurisdiction maintained the rule of law in very difficult phases. It is very important to mention this because, of course, I do not want to refrain from criticizing what the crisis has actually done very clearly once again: Criticism is that it is actually scandalous to cut down so much in the public service. That's what happened, and it's the ÖVP's manuscript. It must also be made clear in all clarity that not only justice, but also the administration was really broken in wide circles. Do you remember, ladies and gentlemen, that situation as employed temporary workers have become the subject of the post? – We have directed our attention there, because of course there have also been clusters in the area. Instead of seeing that there is a well-functioning, well-supported administration, we had to say that there were actually staff costs with tricks such as temporary workers in the property. Let's go to the tender law. We will accept this bill and the government proposal because it basically means an improvement. Of course, we also want the best and most suitable workers to be employed, and not those with party book, no matter what couleur. That would be very important, and we will have to work on it. It is also remarkable, however, that the change has actually led to some of us being unable to occupy posts for up to half a year, because it is so complicated to look first in the region, then overregionally and then externally. We lose people – not only because it costs so much time, but also because in professional groups, people in public administration are still full-time people who have no income. In the context of this, for example, I remember writing staff in law firms in ordinary courts. There are no workers, although one has believed, in the crisis with this high unemployment, more people would apply for public service. The interest in safe jobs would be there, but I think it is also our task to see that the work is re-evaluated, that the right to pay is adjusted accordingly and that the people of their services are rewarded in a fair manner. Let us therefore work together to ensure that the most suitable people are in the right position and not those with the corresponding party book! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e21067	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e21088	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Yes, we are speaking today about the Service-Law-Novelle 2021 at the time of the change in the BDG. That's what the whole thing is called, but of course it's a novel and not a novel. This novelle is generally only an adaptation to the private sector and a small change in the tender law; so the big throw is not it, you have to hold it that way. We liberals have still tried to make a little bit of a big throw in the committee, and have also submitted applications – but they have all been postponed, rubbed and pushed to the long bank, as is the case with this Federal Government. For example, these would have been urgently necessary changes to greater justice in disciplinary law; this would have been a change in remuneration law that reflected the many additional fees and allowances in the basic salary; and this would also have been the so-called space allowance for police officers working on services under particularly difficult conditions, many of which have therefore also applied for a transfer to another department. However, this has not been agreed. It was said: We will do this in the next reform, we will do it, we will do it. Disappointing was the Minister of Staff, the Vice-Cancellant, who sounded quite different from in the autumn of 2020, in which one felt: That's all right, let's give ourselves to the whole thing! Actually, I had the feeling that the official minister didn't want to do anything. And since I have to say, I think it would almost be better for the many, many federal officials who have to serve under Vice Chancellor Kogler, that the vice chancellor would care more about art and culture and a State Secretary or a State Secretary for Civil Service, because, I think, God is unfortunately not much to expect. From the ÖVP as a former, discharged party of the public service, this was actually a purely bankruptcy statement in the committee, there was nothing at all, but also only: Yeah, let's do something so it doesn't mean we're inactive. However, the ÖVP has not achieved much. However, we are already used to it, because it has been the case in recent years, that all the service law novels of the previous years have also not been big throws in it, that they have remained much guilty and that the ÖVP no longer cares for the public servants at all. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The ÖVP is only concerned about itself, and as we know, it has enough to do in recent times. Unfortunately, this is disappointing. We are going to vote in service law, but, as has been said, we liberals are, of course, very disappointed that once again for the many public servants in this country, who have also done great things in the crisis, there has not been any service-related happening and, as one could hear in the committee, will not happen again in the near future, unfortunately, God. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e21137	Member of Parliament Michael Hammer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e21168	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Staff! I would like to say that, Mr Lausch, if you think that the best is to come to an end. Thank you for the announcement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I can get you out of your world a little bit, which you're talking about in a lot of thematic areas. If you say that the liberals would be the true representatives of the public service and the ÖVP would have resigned there, then I can only remind you of how the last elections in the public service, the federal elections, have gone out: [[Congratulation of the Abg. Smart]] As far as I can remember, this was a debacle for the liberals – and the GOD and FCG have cut off excellently there, and that is the work of the ÖVP and the trade union public service for the officials. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lausch: The work of the party economy!]] I should also like to say one thing to you, because you have caused something to affect Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Staff from the side. I remind you: During our reign, Deputy Chancellor Strache was Minister of Civil Service, and I am not very much aware of what his services were for the public service. That's so much to say. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] What this draft is about has already been said: We make adjustments to the home office for officials in the field of teleworking. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the public servants, who have really done superhuman and great things in the crisis management process, from the municipal level through the district administration authorities to the state level to the federal officials involved in this BDG-Novelle. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also worth mentioning that we are making adjustments in the field of teleworking following the experience of the last few months: Public service has always been a pioneer, actually a pilot when it came to performing flexible working hours and teleworking. Public service has always been very innovative, and I think we are now taking a step forward. It is about the framework conditions for the IT infrastructure in its own four walls that there is an effort compensation for the additional burden resulting from the fact that there is also legal certainty as regards the work or the entry of the labour inspectorate, and many other clarifications. As far as the further point is concerned, the revision of the tender law is simply essential – and that has been said by previous speakers, we can deny it or take it seriously –: Due to demographic developments in the public service, we simply have the need to occupy posts quickly and flexibly, and with this innovation we make it possible. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e21241	Mrs Schatter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e21262	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to begin by taking the opportunity to thank the many employees in the public service for their work over the last one and a half years, for doing the pandemic due to very challenging activities. I believe that this cannot be said often enough, and this concerns employees at all levels, whether at municipal, national or federal level. [[Abg. Listen:... the hammer before...!]] Experiences from this time and above all from work in the home office are now also reflected in the present law novel. [[Calls and calls between Mr Lausch and Mr. Michael Hammer.]] The current amendment to civil service law concerns a total of three essential points – Mr Lausch, perhaps you can also listen and watch a little! On the one hand, it is about adapting the teleworking system to officials, officials and contract staff. After the home office regulations have already been adopted for the private sector, it is also necessary in the public service to take the necessary measures. It remains unchanged that, as before, teleworking can only be used on a day-to-day basis. Second essential part of the amendment of this law is a reaction to the upcoming wave of retirement of the so-called baby boomer generation. Around half of the public service employees will retire over the next 13 years, and we will have to respond logically to this by also adapting the tender law and, so to speak, speeding up the post-employment process accordingly so that the operation can be maintained for all of us throughout the country and there are no delays. The host service still has the possibility to decide for itself whether only a ressort or federal intern is to be tendered out or whether it should be publicly advertised. Suitable internal applicants may continue to be taken into account in public procurement procedures. The third amendment – and this too has already been mentioned – in this bill is actually a clarification when it comes to the fact that labour inspectors and labour inspectors may enter private homes on the basis of the Home Office only if they receive explicit consent from the competent person. So all in all, this change of law, this package of laws, is actually an adaptation to the current circumstances, and logically, we will also give the Social Democrats our consent to this change of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e21305	Mr Köchl has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e21326	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! It's a law that's very interesting to me, because it just shows me how it always does the ÖVP: This is where the honourable Member goes from the ÖVP and says that his party is so important to the officials that they have cut off so well in the personnel representation elections. It's clear to me once: If the poster is made the way he does with Mr Schmid at the ÖVP, as the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany does, of course, there can be no different choice of personnel representatives. [[Abg. Zarits: In Carinthia...!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I think you're looking over from the ÖVP. You are an economic party and always of the opinion: [[Abg. Tashner: Yes!]] If the economy is going well, we're all fine! , and when the crisis comes, you forget to renominate officials. [[Abg. Tashner: Yes!]] [[Abg. Baumgartner: Uh, clear!]] You know for years that birth-thinking vintages are that the next one should have been trained, that people simply need to be worked on, that people - - - yes, worked in, thank you for the correction. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Worked in, not worked!]] It's very important that you improve me, because now you understand, that's great. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Tashner:... who understands the correction!]] – I know it bothers you if you say something to you, what the truth is. The people in Austria will understand what I'm saying. It bothers you when you say you forget the officials in the communities, in the countries, in the ministries. You have to see that there are enough people, because when another crisis comes, you will need it very urgently – not the economic bosses and the corporations, but these people you will need, and you will have to train them in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am also an apprentice speaker of my party. A year and a half ago, I said to you: Take up apprentices! Youth needs work. – You don’t do anything in this direction, and therefore, I believe, this ÖVP will look completely dark in the future and the friends will notice this by the voters.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e21460	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Then I may ask in advance if we can vote: SPÖ? Green? NEOS? FPÖ? We therefore come to the vote on the draft law in 939 of the supplements. Mr Scherak, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has tabled an amendment. That is why I must first vote on the proposed amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We come to Mr Scherak's amendment on Article 3. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I may ask those who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. Whoever is to do so is also asked for a sign. - That's the majority. Third reading: Whoever is in third reading for this, I ask him to make this known accordingly. – This is the same voting behaviour. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. I thank Mr Vice-Chancellor for his presence. [[16:11:57]] 9. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1777/A by Mr Mag. Ernst Gödl, Bedrana Ribo, MA, colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the Bundespflegegeldsgesetz (1003 d.b.) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the proposal from Dr Dagmar Belakovich, Member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1775/A by Mr Mag. Andreas Hanger, David Stögmüller, colleagues in a Federal Act amending the Voluntary Law (1005 d.b.) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 1661/A by Mr Mag. Michael Hammer, Mag. Markus Koza, colleagues on a federal law that amends the Federal Law on the control of pandemic-related poverty (COVID-19 law poverty) (1006 d.b.) 13. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 294/A(E) by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues on implementing laws on the basic social assistance law and adapting the basic social assistance law (1007, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e21598	We now come to Agenda items 9 to 13, on which the debates are being held under one. I should like to welcome the Minister for Health and Social Affairs to us quite warmly. There was no oral reporting. I can give the floor to Mrs Belakovich. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e21628	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! Now we are with Agendas of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, and this is a number of requests that we are now negotiating. The first is an own-initiative proposal from representatives of the government parties. It is a question of introducing the so-called community of Nurses, the parish sisters – an idea that has always existed, which is implemented relatively successfully in the Scandinavian countries. We will give it our consent, even though this request is not really what one would expect. Since the 2019 Council of Ministers lecture – still under the black and blue government – exactly nothing has gone on in the field of care and nothing has happened at all. Mr Minister, you have the impression that you have no plan at all to go in which direction. A few hours before the committee, we are getting an amendment that is relatively extensive – it's something put in place somewhere. I am missing the overall care concept, Mr Federal Minister, which would be expected by the citizens of our country. As a result, I find it all the more sad and disappointing that there is again a rejection of the Federal Care Association. We also brought this into the government negotiations at the time. It was part of the negotiating mass that should have been there at the time, which ended up in a Council of Ministers lecture. That's all from the table now. We are now going back to where we were in the care sector in 2017. We're going to make a piece of car and there's a piece of car, but in reality there's a big throw missing. In this regard, I would hope – but I am sorry, Mr Minister, if you look at your media appearances, very little hope – that you are actually willing to pass on anything for the country. What's still up: It is about minimum insurance and social assistance. There was a new law introduced by the left parties to the Constitutional Court. They wanted to lift the whole law – luckily, it didn't succeed. What has been raised was the German knowledge for people who do not control German. Now you see what's coming out. You only need to look at Vienna: We have a suspected murderer, an Afghan who has received 60 000 euros of social assistance from the city of Vienna, but cannot speak German in an interrogation. He still needs an interpreter. That's where I ask myself the question: Wouldn't it have been smarter to see that people can get German first before they can get the minimum security to the fullest level? Would it not have been wise to commit a certain amount – as we had decided at the time – actually for the language acquisition to be used for the German course? I think that if you look at what is going on in this country, that would have been the right way. We're still here today. Nevertheless, the city of Vienna has not yet implemented anything – nothing at all. The minimum level of security still applies there. It is still the case that, for minimum security, rent aid is paid out in addition. In Vienna, it is still very sluggish, which is also known. There the minimum protection is given, there is to be poured out with the casting can, like just something. That's all tax money, ladies and gentlemen. We see who gets the minimum security in Vienna. We have mentioned this several times, Minister. We have also drawn your predecessor's attention to the fact that he should write the implementing law for the city of Vienna if he does not want to work for the city of Vienna to do so if it cannot – what I know is what the real reason is, I think it's more an ideological one. Interesting also – towards ÖVP –: You have rejected this in committee, and I assume you will reject it today. Only: I would like to remind you of what your top candidate, Minister Blümel, in the last election campaign in Vienna – in the autumn of 2020 – has been very positive: I'm going to work for it now, because it can't be that the laws are still not implemented in Vienna. Now I know he's not here today, but maybe you'll call him and ask him if he actually said that. And why fall You're actually in the back of him? Please agree with us that Vienna must finally do this! At last, the minimum guarantee must be re-implemented in Vienna.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e21677	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e21698	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Today is a good day, we have already heard it once and twice in connection with the EAG. Today, however, it is also a good day for care. We also succeed in caring for a milestone by creating the legal basis for community tourism. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Gödl.]] The introduction of Communitynursing will make a significant contribution to the needs-oriented, community-oriented and down-to-earth care in Austria. But what I would like to mention again, because it was also the subject of the media: Communitynursing should not be considered to be a competition for existing offers in the care. The Communitynurse is embedded in a community, in a region in the system that already exists there, and is not a competition for mobile care, for example. The Community's programme is to be developed in the future. At regional level, be the central point of contact for care issues – for people who need assistance, for those affected, but of course for their families. The reality in care: Every one of us who deals with the subject a little – whether private or professional – knows that reality is quite another. Often you are overwhelmed with the situation you have arrived, then you don't know where to turn, what applications to complete, who is now responsible for exactly one thing – the covenant, the country, the community? - That's exactly where the community lessons come into play. In the future – and I remain in the female form, although I hope there will also be some male community education – it will be a central place with those concerned who choose the appropriate offer, the appropriate care offer, and also support public authorities. It is intended to be a diplomat health caregiver, who looks up – that is, the new – working, that is, preventively, to visit people before the entrance of the need for care, and see if there may be no way of actively preventing them with professional support. In the Scandinavian countries, it is a success model, and I believe it will also become a success model in Austria. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to mention once again the high burden on the caring family. The community must relieve caregivers. We have around 900 000 people in Austria who call themselves caring relatives. They support our care system. Without these persons, our care system, including long-term care, which relieves them, would completely collapse. That is why I am really glad that the Community-nurses will bring relief to these people. When should it start? – In autumn we start the pilot phase. This is financed by the EU's resources. We are talking about 54 million euros, and by 2025 we are expected to finance 150 Community courses in Austria. It's really a great project, and I'm very happy for the people in the care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e21758	Mr Heinisch-Hosek is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e21780	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to dedicate my speaking time to care, and I believe that, as we did today at item 1 at the beginning of the day, very euphoric and very positive discussion of the Renewable Development Act, it would be time – I remember only 10 billion euros in 10 years – for us to speak equally enthusiastically about the care and also together, Mr. Federal Minister, the next years, since we know that the need will be enormous, as we know that the burden of caregivers will come to the ceiling, as we know that not only an extension of institutionalized care facilities is required. That doesn't mean a nursing home in every village! We did not mean that in committee either. It is necessary to increase mobile care, day care. In the abundance of childcare facilities, there should also be care facilities, day facilities for seniors who need this. Today, we are taking out a very small stone from the very great need for care reform, which was rightly praised by Mrs Collegiate. We welcome this too. However, the EUR 54 million from the EU's reconstruction fund, which is being used for this purpose, brings just 150 people, who each support 100 000 euros, to take up this activity. However, in our country there are 2,100 communities, and I think it would be urgent to make the pilot project a little bigger and look at the fact that in every community, in every larger unit, there will also be such a community class. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In fact, we would have had the 20 000 action, with which it would have been possible to use qualified nursing staff, who might no longer exercise their profession, because they were looking for something else somewhere else and wanted to do this activity in municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen! No, it wasn't just about people looking for work. We would also have expanded this over the 40 000 action, which would have meant that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gödl.]] – Let me keep talking! Then you'd have heard what I have to say. The 4 minutes are already over. I have 15 proposals that we have made, which we could discuss and deal with together on a major care reform. I think it's high time. For one and a half years, the law on the expansion of renewable energy has been needed. We must not leave ourselves so long to talk about a major care reform. Now the fields of action of the Taskforce are on the table. Today, it is a small contribution that comes in through the Bundespflegegeldgesetznovelle for new innovative projects. That's not enough. We will still have to discuss one of the really great topics of the future here and also very soon. The forerunner is often a longer one. Mr Federal Minister, I would You really urgently ask for you to involve us immediately – experts have already presented papers – so that we do not need too long to ensure that an emergency care situation in Austria, which is already started and to be foreseen, does not become a reality.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e21834	Mr Gödl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e21855	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr. Federal Minister! The Federal Government has indeed set itself a major reform in care at the top of the list of priorities, with very good reason. According to statistics, 466 000 people in Austria currently receive care benefits. This means that 466,000 people in Austria need support to cope with everyday life. We also know that the largest care service in our country is the caring family. It is almost a million people, as is estimated, who daily support their family members, their acquaintances and relatives in dealing with everyday life. We know from many studies and also from personal discussions that it is the great desire of the great majority of people to be cared for as long as possible in their own four walls. Therefore, there is also a need for special support for this care at home. There's no way we'll start with zero. There are many offers in all federal states. Why in the federal states? – The responsibility for benefits in kind in the care is well known to the federal states. There are many, many offers from mobile services to day care to the stationary facilities. We also see – and this has already been mentioned – that the need for support in care will increase significantly in the next few years. That's got several reasons. One of them is that, fortunately, we have a higher life expectancy and possibly also a greater need for care. Of course, family and social structures also change. It is therefore important that we do very comprehensively in this care reform, just as Mrs Heinisch-Hosek has said. What we certainly need is innovative projects. With the amendment of the Bundespflegegeldsgesetz, we want to enable innovative projects. We aim, as my colleague Bedrana Ribo has already done, to precisely install Communitynurses in the communities, in the regions. Communitynurses are important, and this too has already been said not to push out existing offers, not to replace existing ones, but to create an additional offer, namely a low-sleep offer, low-sleep access to care as a whole. A community course should be a first person when care needs arise. A community course, which knows the structures well on the ground, should also have a coordinating function, then also offer the right setting, as you say, and work in the consultation. But it is also very important – and that has not yet been said – that we must invest decisively in prevention. We must succeed in working together – this can be a task for the community – to take measures to make healthy years more healthy and to move the need for care as far as possible. This requires very targeted programmes, and this could and should be a task for the Community in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! We are actually starting to implement various steps of the care reform, which this Federal Government has recognised as a priority. One of them is the community. Today, we will talk about professional scholarships at a later stage in the field of the labour market. It is high time to move forward step by step with municipalities and countries. The need is great, but together we will surely master the care reform. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e21901	The honourable Member is hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e21922	Mr President. High house! Valuable Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear sisters at home! [[The salutation also in sign language:]] Love deaf people! In principle, it is all right to promote innovative care concepts and projects through the federal government. However, this new law is abundantly unspecific except for four superintendents. One has the impression that the Ministry does not know exactly what it wants to promote, but quickly submits something to get some funds from the EU recovery fund. Whether that's the point of the matter, I doubt. Especially the Minister of Health, who himself was a doctor in a primary care practice, should know that the established care depends on remuneration in the air and depends on country-specific arrangements. Therefore, a billing catalogue with social security was urgently needed for the established care – analogous to the doctors. Why it needs EU funding from the recovery fund for care projects is also obscene to me. In England and in the Scandinavian countries, care will be taken in the Primary supply has long been widely used – quite simply because it improves the supply and relieves the hospitals. Why good projects in Austria, which do not require EU support, are waiting until there is an EU funding is incomprehensible. In order to put forward concrete proposals, I now make two requests: a request for the billing catalogue for social security and a request for school education. We could have started with these sensible measures, which we expect to do without EU support. I therefore make the following requests: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] In the sense of adequate care in Austria, I ask for broad consent. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[16:32]] The applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e22219	The two applications are properly submitted, sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. The word stands with him. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e22244	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Last, but not least: Mr. Minister! Now, of course, I have to deal briefly with the Community class. My colleague, Mr Götze, said today in the early days on the issue of EAG that she has been asked so often in recent weeks: When is the EAG finally coming? – And what is the EAG in the field of climate protection and sustainability is the topic of community education in the field of health care. I've heard very, very often since: When are they finally coming? When are we finally going to implement this? There are also a lot of proposals and also a lot of health professionals who have already reported to us, including in the ministry, as far as I have heard about this, who want to implement it on their own. So I am really glad that we are now entering this pilot project, because it is also necessary accordingly. However, I would like to use the time now to respond to the Voluntary Act – Agenda item 11. It's been a little downtime so far. We have also succeeded in extending a corona measure. This sounds rather inconvenient now, but does not mean anything but that young people who make a peace service abroad, a memorial service, a social service and, for example, because of the corona situation in that country in which they provide this service have to go back, then here in Austria they can quickly, immediately continue and end their civil service and thus do not have to give up social benefits such as family support. That's important. It may not affect many people, in 2019 it was 204 people who completed such a service, in 2017 it was 128 people. So you can see, that's what happens, that's what young people want to do, they want to represent Austria abroad, and that's what they do with it – like a friend of mine, Dorian, who worked and represented Austria there for almost a year, four years ago, by keeping the memory of the victims of Schoah alive, by clarifying that by working there. These young people really make a very, very important contribution, they are ambassadors of Austria in the best sense, and of course they also belong to our support accordingly. What we decide with this novel to the Voluntary Law today is a very, very small part of what we can do to support it, of course it goes much more. I think we will have to look at this again, how we can further attract and drive this volunteer service, this memorial service, this social service, this foreign service. Today, however, we decide to extend this extension by the end of 2022 to ensure the security of planning for young people doing this service as well as for organisations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e22284	The Federal Minister Mückstein has been reported to speak. I can give him the word. - Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e22310	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! Today I am especially proud of the community-nursing project. I have actually seen in my own ordination in the last six years that this concept works. But if you compare this with Scandinavia, where care in primary care is more present, then you can see that this is a different concept. This is not about wound care, infusions or home care visits, perhaps to care for wounds at home, but it is primarily about coordination and information. That is to say, it is about bringing information to the relatives and to the caregivers at home and creating offers for them. That's very important, that's a coordinating activity. The amendment of the Federal Carers' Money Act is now intended to provide the basis for promoting new, innovative projects by local authorities or social assistance organisations, such as those relating to community education, in the field of care provision. Communitynursing is intended to make a significant contribution to low-slip and demand-oriented supply. For example, at regional level, a central contact person is established which coordinates and transmits first information on care and care offers. Secondly, through proactive house visits or speaking hours, for example, health prevention should be strengthened by early recognition of health risk factors and as long as possible staying of older people at home. For example, in the sense of a Geriatric Assessment, you can imagine that you routinely screen all 75-year-olds, make an offer that you make a home visit about the care and be watched where need exists. It is not a question of the Community's own needs being met, but rather of writing, recording, making offers and possibly coordinating them. That is, we want to achieve that older people, who usually want to stay at home, can really stay at home longer. Thirdly, the Community's needs for individual needs should be consulted. Thus, for example, I have just done this, older people can be helped if they need support in the household. We start with 150 Communitynurses Austria as a pilot project. My ministry has sought Communitynursing for the financing of the Communitynursing pilot project in the context of the Austrian development and resilience plan, and this has been approved. The term for the settlement of the EU Resilience Fund extends from 2021 to 2021. Through this project, Austria can identify, analyse and use necessary change potentials and, in future, use them through a final evaluation – very important – to further develop the supply landscape. I am pleased that this project will start already in autumn, step by step, and then will be implemented throughout Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e22362	Mrs Feichtinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e22383	Mr President. Minister! High house! Dear Seers! 2021 is the year of honor. Austria is the country of volunteers with a very long tradition, and that throughout Europe. The Covid Pandemic has shown how important the pillars of the volunteers are. As mayor, for example, I have experienced this during mass testing. Without fire brigade, without rescue organization, without volunteers and without the parish staff, we could not have voted all of this. In the first wave of the pandemic, the clubs were on the move voluntarily and brought them food or some kind of phone call with them, so they don't feel so alone. These are all the topics that the volunteers have covered. – Thank you once again from my side to every individual who has contributed a part to this! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] The Year of Honorary Office is a good opportunity to improve the framework conditions for volunteers. The SPÖ supports this request for temporary amendment of the conditions for the foreign volunteer service. What does this mean for young people? – They have more plannedness, they have more security when, for example, elementary events happen, as is the case at present, so that if they have to stop their stay abroad, they can safely continue the year in Austria and then also not lose family support. I believe that this is an important security for these young people who volunteer. Ladies and gentlemen, let us use the Year of Honor to improve the legal framework for volunteers together! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e22422	Mrs Scheucher-Pichler is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e22444	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am also pleased that we are bringing on the pilot project of the Communitynurses, with which I do not like the name. But I also admit that I don't think any better, because parish nurse isn't just spicing. As you have rightly pointed out, Mr Federal Minister, the Community-Nurses in Scandinavia also have a slightly different task. But yes, good that we start, good that we bring the care reform into swing. Especially the older generation has had a lot to deal with in recent times. I would also like to mention the issue of loneliness which we must oppose. We need to do more for the care staff, we need to upgrade their activity. We need more care staff. We have decided to take care of the bonus, and we simply have to do more; but – and that is the most important thing for me – we need to strengthen our support for the caring families. You're doing the main work. They really do the biggest care work in Austria, and they need all our respect and all our support. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The care at home has to be upgraded, even that has already been said. There's a shale. There are a lot of people in old and nursing homes, which are also It could be taken care of at home. That's a question of plausible offers. We must do more, and there is certainly a good thing about the preventive approach taken by the Community, because, as the Minister has already said, we are developing preventive contacts with the elderly, so to speak, that we are already cautiously informing about the offers – and this goes far beyond the care. This is about services all around, from the menu service to the emergency call to the possibilities of digital communication and security and much more. So I think these preventive house visits are good, but we're going to need a lot of community lessons. I therefore believe that there should not and should not be a double track. You have already done that, Minister. I hope that will be the case. We need the non-profit organizations on site. We need the mobile services on the spot that know how to do it, which can make it daily and which can then implement it, because the lifting up is one thing, but the implementation of the concrete aids is something else. It is therefore also very important that we plan an evaluation phase and then really see where the priorities are to be set. In conclusion: We must do everything we can to allow our older generation to grow old in dignity and quality of life. We've been more and more proud of God's thanks. That's the most beautiful thing: we're getting older. We must do everything we can to support and upgrade the care staff, the nurses. We must do everything we can to support the caring families even more. That is, I think, our common goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e22492	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e22513	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! We are discussing several agenda items in this block. One of these is a communication prevention programme, as proposed by Mr Sozialminister, and this, of course, sounds particularly good for the people. It is intended to support those who have been delayed by the pandemic in rents and prevent homelessness – theoretically. De facto contains the bill holds the usual mistakes, for precise work the house is not known. In reality, the programme does not even have a budget of 10 million euros per year, and it is absolutely not guaranteed that the money will also benefit those who actually need it. According to this bill, a person can also benefit from this grant if he lives in a large dwelling with non-profit people, and everyone knows enough cases where people live in larger apartments than would be necessary. But what we need and what we want is a law that is targeted, where those who need the money do not stay on the track. I therefore propose an amendment which should require the Minister to provide objective and objective support criteria so that the programme serves those who need it, and not just headlines in the newspaper. Digitalisation is not very advanced in Austria, so the Rules of Procedure require me to read a long request to you. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[16:47]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e22673	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. Next word is reported to Members of Disoski. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e22697	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Living is a basic human need and a fundamental right, and this is all the more so in times of crisis. We know that a lot of people have lost their jobs in the past 15 months and thus their income. These people have partly feared that they will lose their homes because they can no longer pay their rents. The Federal Government has taken these concerns very seriously and therefore still in April 2020 a very comprehensive package of measures to support Leased to tenants. With this package, we have prevented people who had to fear Covid due to the loss of income from the loss of housing, in fact also from being put in front of the door by landlords. At the time, the Minister of Justice has taken care not to terminate leases by the end of June 2022 because of leases and has not been able to make threatening declarations. Now experts are predicting that the number of complaints and declarations will rise sharply as a result of the crisis. That is what we must firmly oppose, and that is what we are doing. Today, we decide that tenants who cannot afford Covid-due to their rental payments can receive financial support from the Delogging Fund. The Minister of Social Affairs provides funds for projects aimed at preventing homelessness, and for example, this fund also allows for rental interest refunds, which are covid-related. A total of EUR 24 million will be available for this communication prevention and housing security until 2023. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That's 24 million euros to prevent people from losing their homes and becoming homeless, 24 million euros, with which we give security, namely those who don't know if they can sleep dry and safe tomorrow. We give security because living is a basic human need and a fundamental right. We give this security to those who need it. These include single parents, low-earners, families and part-time workers. You remember, 90 percent of them are women. The main thing is that the federal government is working there with a NGO network and therefore can ensure the detection prevention very quickly. However, the countries and communities are not out of their responsibilities and, of course, have to contribute to it. In their direction I also appeal: Take this responsibility seriously! The guidelines on the Fund, Mr Loacker, are in preparation and will be adopted by the Ministry. I come to the conclusion: The Federal Government has set itself the goal of reducing, halving and relativizing the number of people at risk of poverty in the course of this legislative period by 50 percent, and we will neither relativize this number through the Covid Pandemic, nor will we revise it – quite the contrary: we will continue to strengthen our efforts to avoid poverty due to the social impact of this pandemic. It is quite clear that there will certainly be no social cuts in the social system, cuts in unemployment benefit and other fantasies with us Greens.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e22748	Mrs Grünberg has the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e22770	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Austria is a country of honor. 3.5 million people are volunteering in Austria every day. This corresponds to 44 percent of all over 15-year-olds. You have to imagine that! Almost half of all over 15-year-olds in Austria are volunteering, and with this value we are the top of Europe, if not the world. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Yes, it is indeed true that in Austria the honorary office has a very high priority, and I think that is rightly so. We can be really proud of the voluntary sector and, of course, the non-profit sector. We have also seen during the corona pandemic last year and in recent months how strongly our society has worked together and supported each other. Now, in concrete terms, to the present law: This has already been addressed by a number of colleagues before me. It is about this change in the Voluntary Law that the extraordinary volunteer service is now being extended again, up to the 31st century. ==References== ==References====External links== August out. However, in our opinion, the pandemic situation is not yet so strengthened, so we are extending this right of return until the end of 2022. It simply needs a clear legal certainty, on the one hand, for those who send these civil or memorial servants abroad, and on the other hand, on the other hand, it also needs security for these young people who also live in the international context for social projects and peace projects in various countries around the world, for example Uganda, Ecuador or Nepal. Austria is represented in many different countries. There the volunteers work in schools, in nursing facilities, as well as in art centres or research institutions and do a truly valuable job. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I would also like to thank all the volunteers here in the House once again, with all civil servants and memorial servants. We will work here in the House to ensure that Austria continues to remain a country of honour. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e22821	The Federal Minister Mückstein has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e22842	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Homelessness is one of the worst forms of poverty in Austria, because living is a basic human need. I have also seen during my engagement at the Neunerhaus, which means homelessness. Homelessness makes you sick. We know the victims die about 20 years earlier. Today I was back in the Neunerhaus after 13 years, it has grown great, still a great social project. We have supported a project by the Ministry of Health, which deals with the care of mentally ill persons. In this way non-insuranced non-residents in Austria can be supported. Experts predict that as a result of the Covid crisis, rooming and delogging will grow significantly with rising rental and housing prices combined with falling incomes. As a result of the crisis and the coronamies, there has been a backlog of complaint and delogging. Without countermeasures, we would face a wave of delogging in the coming months, but also in 2022 and 2023. We will therefore provide EUR 24 million for emergency assistance and advisory services for the prevention of logistics. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Thank you. This will make a significant contribution to the development of the prevention of immigration, and we will support the necessary emergency assistance for those concerned to: Example by taking over rent residues, but also court costs and by consulting services. We know that the overall social cost of prevention is much lower than the cost of delogging and homelessness. That's an important point. With this EUR 24 million, we not only save those affected a lot of personal suffering and high costs in connection with declarations, such as complaints and premises, but also the overall social consequences of homelessness are minimized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e22891	Member of the Worm has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e22912	Mr President, too deep! [[The speaker goes up to the floor of the speaker, who was lowered by the previous speaker.]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: It can't be deep enough for you!]] The lift rides – that's how. Mr President. Minister! High house! Fathers. Yes, we now have three blocks with social issues, very extensive things, but in the substance rather very fragile, to say it that way. Mr. Mückstein, your predecessor, Mr. Anschober, was, as Minister of Health, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection, a multi-lingual speaker – usually missing evidence or without evidence. They are more silent in the committees, and when you talk here, you have to be careful that you understand through the mask. This area of social affairs is essentially about the turning and fishing point of the entire history of Corona and about who pays the token of EUR 100 billion, as we have discussed this this morning. When I asked this question in March 2020, of course, no one was interested, and it was already clear at that time that the members of the government – some of them were already missing – will not pay the tokens, but the tokens will usually pay the simple people and the middle class. Mr Minister, what is being debated or decided on today is something I should like to clarify: There are only a few things that are discussed in the Committee, then here in the plenary session, and perhaps I will start with two things that do not appear here because they are simply postponed from committee to committee. One topic is credit support. They're quiet and secret. This has affected or still affects hundreds of thousands of Austrians. That is to say, you, the Greens and the ÖVP, have left both single-parents you mentioned, and the small entrepreneurs who are at the ÖVP alone. They have to deal with the consequences of the Corona crisis themselves. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Also a story that doesn't pop up today is the hacker rule, the abolition of the hacker board. Those who have worked for 45 years will no longer be able to retire from next year's retirement with 62 years without deductions, and the request for this has also been shoved by the government in social cold, with the help of the Greens. There you can already see the first to pay for this corona crisis, which is the first tender beginnings, and of course that will continue. To the mentioned, much praised communication program – we have tried to explain it to you in the committee, I have hoped that there will be another distraction, or at least you will do something –: Your program lacks all those who have a private apartment, the private tenants fall through the rust. I know enough single parents who have a private rental apartment, and they fall through the rust that doesn't protect her. For this reason, I would like to make a request, which should be of course, but which you simply do not want to agree – why, is a mystery –: [[Quoted print version removed]] This could be used to close this gap, because otherwise everyone who has a private rental apartment will fall through the rust in these delogging stories. So these are the stories that don't appear here at all. Also a topic: the minimum security – you did not smile coldly again. I should like to remind you once again: 13 amendments were decided in the case of minimum security, only three of which have been repealed by the Constitutional Court. All the other ten are still executing. Unfortunately, one sees God in this dramatic death case that three or four of the perpetrators were in the care of the minimum, and that has all consequences. We also finance the murderers, and all the changes that can be implemented for a long time in Austria are not being implemented. Mr Minister, we hope to discuss everything else on the subject of Corona in detail in the committee or in the next plenary session. Summa summarum only remains for me and for us liberals that, unfortunately, in the social field of you God does not come anything productive at all. I am aware that you may still have some rudimentary competence in the health sector, but in the social field, Mr Minister, this is completely missing. I am not talking about consumer protection wherever you are ministers, because there is silence in the forest at all. However, we will not let go of it and we will point out your duties and obligations as ministers. As I said, The subject goes on, unfortunately God to the harm of the Austrians, in the social field has really come back social cold. The tokens of this federal government pay the ordinary people outside, and we will not accept that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e22984	Mr Wurm, the amendment has not yet been properly tabled, because you have, in the sentence with “main residence in Austria, which” ends, “1. ...’’, and if you don’t read it, I can’t count it as brought in. So I'm trying to read this.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e22999	Thank you, Madam President. So: the 1. live in leased dwellings according to the law of rental or housing, which by non-profit building associations according to the Federal Act of 8 January 1989. March 1979 on the Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to Community benefit in the housing sector (Law on housing public utility law – WGG), BGBl. No. 139/1979, as last amended by the Federal Law BGBl. I No. 104/2019, as well as in rental properties, which according to §§ 1090 ff. ABGB. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[17:03]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e23095	Thank you many times, honourable Member. This amendment has now been properly tabled and is under negotiation. Now, Mr Wolfgang Mückstein, Federal Minister, has spoken again. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e23120	I just want to correct this. I hope you understand me well now by the mask – is that all right? [[Call the SPÖ:Yes!]] I wear them because there was an infection here in the house, and I think it's good to wear the mask so you don't get infected. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] That's my opinion, so I'd rather leave her up, but I also want you to understand me. I'd like to correct this: Of course, private apartments are included. I'll let you on § 5b Z 2 1. refer to “in rental apartments or” – there is a “or” – “living apartments by non-profit building associations” – and so on. [[in a document looking]] Private rental apartments are therefore included, that is very essential! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e23165	Next word reported: Mr Yannick Shetty. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e23187	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the amendment of the Voluntary Law, but a comment to my previous speaker, Mr Worm: I really have to say that we are discussing a lot of things here – the care money, the voluntary law, the minimum guarantee – but that you are even able to instrumentalise this tragic murder of the young girl and bring it back through the back door, I really think it's bad, and that just doesn't belong.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e23208	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to be moderate in terms of expression. I can put it into practice: We do not use “slow”, at least not if I have the chair.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e23223	Then I won't use this term anymore. We are therefore discussing, among other things, the voluntary law and an amendment that we welcome, namely that a period of August 2021 to December 2022 will be extended, allowing young people to continue their volunteer work abroad without having any negative consequences. We welcome this measure. But if we are already talking about the Voluntary Act today, I would like to make it quite clear at this point that not one point has been implemented by the projects in the Government Programme for Volunteers and Voluntary Commitment, namely twenty in the number. This has also caused a great deal of displeasure in the community, the voluntary organizations and the interest groups, especially because this year the President of the National Council has chosen the Year of Honor. We have already had several events, the volunteer speakers of all parties have always been invited and have given speeches – I think we already know all these speeches externally. But what has been strongly agreed by the interest groups is that these words must also follow actions, and we are missing this painfully. I have the feeling that you, Mr Federal Minister, who is responsible for this matter at the federal level, have not yet really arrived at the fact that there is also a need for action. The government programme talks about a regular volunteer report, the introduction of an honorary certificate, the development of a national strategy for volunteer engagement, the upgrading of the voluntary social year. – We not in all points of opinion, but it simply does not happen at all, it will not be implemented in this area at all. That is why I would like to take the opportunity to point out once again that we should be more involved here. The pandemic has shown that voluntary engagement is incredibly important. Honor goes into office when the state leaves off or if the state fails, whether in the testing or the vaccination streets, in the refugee aid, in the rescue service or in the voluntary fire brigades, and I believe that the volunteers, the volunteers in our country, deserved to accept them and that those things that have remained on the road for a long time and whose implementation has been promised, are finally addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e23272	Next speaker: Mr Michael Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e23293	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Yes, Mr Shetty, it is relatively simple to say that there are many voluntary measures in the government programme, and not all of them have yet been implemented. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff.]] This is the discussion that we have repeatedly held in the committees: A government programme is based on a whole legislative period, and it is up to the government and the parliamentary groups of the government parties to carry it out in stages and schedules accordingly. But one thing I can say to you: This government coalition, consisting of the ÖVP and the Greens, embodies the support and promotion of the Office quite massively; both, the ÖVP have always, and the Greens, who work in many NGOs, are just as embodying this. You can rest assured that we will continue to do a lot of work for the Office. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It has rightly been mentioned that the voluntary organizations have done a lot in crisis management. We have also thanked for this, and where voluntary organizations have been harmed, with the help of the NPO Fund, we have provided compensation to ensure that our associations and voluntary organizations also survive this crisis in the best possible way. That's exactly what we've been doing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I would like to say a few sentences in the area of delogger prevention, which was also said by the Minister at the outset: We have, of course, always tried at this stage to help, as far as possible, the corona crisis, through our support and assistance measures for the general Austrian population, and the measures that have been put in place have also ensured this very well. However, it has always been the strategy and objective of the Federal Government, where there are individual areas of problem, which are not covered by the broad measures, to look at them specifically and to adopt specific measures. The area of housing security and communication prevention is such an area. It is well known and it is fact that certain problems relating to the income situation have worsened. We responded quickly with the moratorium. We have ensured that declarations and court proceedings are not carried out. But now it's about – we have a bit of a follow-up effect – to secure this permanently and permanently. For this purpose, 24 million euros will be made available, first once for support and advice services, but also for rental support and general support. Since it was mentioned by a previous speaker: Of course, this is a cooperation matter with the countries that do a lot of work in the field of homeless aid. It is also a cooperation work with the institutions and organizations of homeless aid. I myself have worked in the social sector of the country of Upper Austria and know that very much effort is being made in this area. We create good foundations at the federal level, and together with the countries we will also solve this issue. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e23359	No one has made any mention of these agenda items. That concludes the debate. Do the rapporteurs want a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I refer the vote to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[17:11:14]] 14. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1780/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schallmeiner, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the 1950 Epidemic Act and the Act on COVID-19 (1008 b.b.) 15. Point Report and request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the draft federal law amending the COVID-19 Emissions Grant Act (1009, e.g.) 16. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1739/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues on the prohibition of discrimination against the Green Pass regime (1010b)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e23421	We shall immediately come to points 14 to 16 of the agenda on which the debates will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Dagmar Belakovich, you are the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e23448	Madam President. Mr. Minister, although you are honouring the fact that, despite plexiglas walls, you leave the mask above, if you are so afraid, I ask you why you are standing outside without a mask and talking. That doesn't fit in. You'll cross the ÖVP soon with all your belongings you'll bring. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You must be glad you've heard about it. If Mr. Hafenecker had not been tested, no one would have known there were infections here. Your Obviously, it's not a great vaccination to protect. I mean, I'm assuming you've been vaccinated twice, and you probably got there as a doctor soon a year. That means what fear you still have from this virus, I don't know. [[Call the Greens.]] But perhaps you know more than you say to the population, because it is also striking that, for example, in the Wiener AKH, vaccinated persons who have both partial vaccinations must still be tested permanently – the test must not be particularly old, it must be 24 hours old, that is, daily – plus the wearing of an FFP2 mask. These are facts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disoski.]] So that's what I'm asking myself: What do you know, Minister? What are you hiding? Is this vaccination effective now or is it not? – Obviously not as much as you tell the population, and yet you all want to torture. I now come to the agenda, on my request, namely the prohibition of discrimination on green passport, ladies and gentlemen. I have already asked you in committee, Mr. Federal Minister – the incidence in Austria is 7 –: How long will there be these 3G rules in Austria? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] When will the 3G rule be gone? At an incidence of 5, of 0, of minus 8, of minus 93? When? I asked you twice, and you said twice, you're going to answer that now, but didn't, you didn't say it. When's the 3G rule gone? How deep does this incidence have to fall, Mr. Federal Minister? Until this 3G rule is gone, discriminate against people who cannot be vaccinated. There are people in this country, you know, and there are people who can't be tested either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ribo.]] – Mrs Colleague, just listen! This is to be done in this country, even if you may not be able to imagine it; it is indeed there. – So, and these people are excluded from any social life, and not only them but also the relatives with them, my dear ladies and gentlemen, and this with an incidence of 7. The likelihood of infection is hardly given. [[New call for tender Ribo]] Since you have so often wanted to organize an artificial theatre in here today, I would just like to remind you: It was Minister Anschober who said that if the CT value of the PCR test is over 30, one is considered non-infectious. Therefore, the care staff in the nursing homes and hospitals were allowed to work with a CT value that was over 30 years old. So I don't see that very big problem. Today, in spite of plexiglass walls in this House, the Minister of State has a mask on the top of this House, but not on the outside of the discussion, because he is afraid of infecting himself. I don't know who you're afraid of infecting. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] What I have heard is also the CT values of colleague Krisper very high, so, I think, the very big risk of infection here is actually not given. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e23544	Next speaker: Member Ralph Schallmeiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e23569	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! It is always amazing - - – Yes, you can only be more speechless because there is still no pandemic in the world of FPÖ, even after 17 months. [[Abg. Belakovich: Now don't say anything about it! You're speechless!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] It's actually the same ritual every time: Colleague Belakovich goes out, colleague Belakovich throws some half-truths or undetectable things around – no evidence – and goes back in, and then you have to capture the whole thing over and over again. [[New call for tender Belakovich]] [[Abg. Worm: Truths! Truths!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Truths, no half-truths!]] But we're already used to that, that's not a new thing in this High House for 17 months, unfortunately God! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Let us come to the real issue, let us come to what is going on in these agenda items – I also know this sentence already enough in the meantime, because most of the time, when I go out to colleague Belakovich, I have to get to the matter again and again! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] In this case, we are dealing here today with adjustments in the green pass. It is about the fact that those who have already recovered and who have the one sting, this booster vaccination, are thus pictured, so that they do not suddenly slip through after three months and suddenly it is called: Well, you only have a booster vaccination, and that's why you can't have the freedom of travel in the final effect! – We will fix this today. We will bring planning security for events over 500 participants by extending the corresponding regulation from four to twelve weeks in validity. We are innovation the Funding Act so that expenses in the vaccination and test roads for the staff, for these many, many volunteers who are helping there, will continue to be paid off until the end of October 2021. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] As has been said, it is a matter of giving the many, many volunteers and volunteers the same support, without any tax burden. Why are we doing that? – Because we probably still need vaccination roads and test roads in October, because we still need a large offer. In the meantime, I think it has arrived halfway in the meantime – hopefully here too, apart from the FPÖ colleagues – that what helps us best at the moment is the vaccination, namely, both stings for those who are not yet healed, but really need the vaccination alone as an immune protection. I can only point out once again: Please, dear people, please, dear people in this country, take care of the vaccinations, go immunize! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Also to colleagues here in the room, in particular to colleagues from the FPÖ: Please go immune! Use this offer! Be a model! [[call to the FPÖ.]] That is how we can really overcome this pandemic together. That would be solidarity, but unfortunately we do not get it from you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Anger.]] We only get apprehension from you, make bad, and in the final effect it's all you want to do is beat cheap populist little money out here every time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] I know, now the colleague goes out again and claims exactly the opposite; but again: What really helps is vaccination – both vaccinations! [[Abg. Belakovich:... actual correction!]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, take care of this! The FPÖ Members should also be vaccinated, which would give us a little more protection for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e23744	The amendment as a whole has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Dagmar Belakovich spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e23771	Madam President. Mr Schalmeiner has just said that I would have said a half-truth here. [[Abg. Soundmeiner: Several!]] In any case, I actually correct and quote Minister Anschhober – in a broadcast –: ‘Defined Ct value must be present’. “In these cases, according to the Ministry of Health, the Ct value - the amount of existing virus RNA - must be above 30 in order to allow them to return to their service.” He also said – I quote –: “There will be no one who has an active infection,” says Anschober. “This, I believe, would make it clear that there is no active infection at a CT value of more than 30.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e23806	Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e23827	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I can come back to the subject and speaking about the green passport, this illustrates, so to speak, the incompetence of the Federal Government when you look at the implementation, and on the other hand, the empty promises made here for months. You have to consider: Why do we need to discuss the green passport again today? – Because the Federal Government simply forgot to build a good legal basis on which we can work. The Federal Government has simply forgotten how to deal with genes who are being vaccinated afterwards. Based on the green pass after 26. May – that was the special session you staged to save the nation with the green pass – you just forgot how to deal with these people, that you only need one vaccination and not two. You just didn't take that. In addition, you announced a great deal at the time – on 26. May was –: That'll be great, starting at 4. June! - The 4th. You didn't keep it on June either. So this shows again: Promise, promise, promise, but keep nothing, this federal government can. You almost already have the feeling: “And daily the Murmeltier greets”. I'm excited when we need to discuss the green pass next time, because something doesn't work. Apart from these promises you have made, you also have to look at how the whole process has gone from the beginning. The first reports came from the Federal Government in March. In March, there was a big talk about this: We do this now, the green pass comes, so we allow more openings et cetera. But what did you do? – You have not done what many other countries have done – the European Union has presented offers to you, especially in the implementation of how to do this – to accept these offers, but the most competent government of all time has considered: We've got all the know-how with us, that's why we're doing it ourselves! – The department store Austria has already worked so well – I remember the 1.3 million euros you have thrown out of the window – and that is why you are trying to do it yourself. Then comes this wonderful green pass you want to introduce here to the world, and he can't hold anything. He doesn't even replace the pre-consistency industry. What you can do is print out certificates from a platform online. We had all of that before. What you have announced as a relief for the Austrians, that they can finally go out again, that they have to finally just show something with their smartphone and then be free, so to speak, has not occurred! They have then developed for months – while students in Hagenberg have already presented a ready-made solution, while someone who is very active on Twitter has presented a ready-made solution, how to bring it into the wallet without major detours, so it is easy on a mobile phone. All this you didn't do at that time, and then you bring a solution, a great app, and what can this app do? - That's nothing. You need a second device to scan it so that you can show it back on your device. I can take a picture of what I've gotten before, but don't need an app! It is precisely this incompetence of the Federal Government in this project, as in all the digital projects that we have seen, that goes from the beginning to the end, and You can now stand up ten more times and sell great how great you are not. By the way, there is a special treat: Mrs. Edtstadler has then been shown with her smartphone and has shown the green pass, and that was exactly one of those solutions that did not come from the Federal Government, because she has not managed to get it on the way. It is just ridiculous if this Federal Government is facing itself and says that it now has a solution to any of the problems of the Austrians. You have to say that quite openly and honestly. This disaster around the green pass, the fact that we have to discuss and negotiate this for the time being in plenary session, and the implementation shows: This federal government cannot do two things: It can't digitize, it can't manage crisis, and the worst thing is, it can't keep a single promise either.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e23891	Next speaker: Mrs Verena Nussbaum. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e23912	Madam President. Dear High House! Dear Seers! Yes, a few days ago the Green Pass app was released, you can use it. My previous speaker has already said a lot about this, unfortunately it has again become extremely complicated to load the certificates into the app, and there are still ambiguities in this app to the green pass. That is to say, the freedoms that we should regain are obviously not back so quickly, and there are still many ambiguities, especially with regard to the genes. It is now okay that we decide today that the data of the genes are transmitted to Elga GmbH, that is quite all right, but I would like to draw attention to this: There is so far no uniform approach in the federal states as to how to deal with the genes in relation to vaccination. In Lower Austria, the genes are given only one vaccination, and in the other federal states two vaccinations. However, full immunisation is necessary for entry into many countries in Europe, i.e. both vaccinations. I wonder when there will once be a uniform approach and to what extent it will be accepted in the European area if someone has only one vaccination, if other countries say: You're not completely immunized! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] Furthermore, for many genes, it is also problematic that these recovery certificates disappear from the green passport and from Elga after six months of validity, which they have in Austria. But there are countries, such as Greece, where these certificates apply after the disease for nine months. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] This means that these regulations too need to be considered very well. But what has also been missed – this is not a news, I have already spoken about it – is to give the Coronabonus to all heroes of the Corona pandemic. We know that the health and social forces have done incredible things, and so everyone should receive recognition. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, the Federal Government is once again able to split workers in the health field: A few professional groups are supposed to get the Coronabonus, many not! And I don't understand now, because the Federal Chancellor said this morning: Those people in Austria who get up and work daily must not be the fools. Now I'm wondering, Who are the fools now? Are these the rescue anities? The workers in the guard? The bonus still lacks people in disability care, in childcare, in the food trade. Do these groups feel like the fools now, although they were among the heroes who have been accused? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would therefore like to table the following motion for a resolution on agenda item 14. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[17:31]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e24067	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Gerhard Kaniak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e24092	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have several issues to debate here again, and I would like to start with the amendments to the COVID-19 exchange grant law. To this end, the Federal Government has proposed that the cost of official test roads, antigen testing and PCR tests should be extended by the end of October. In principle, we also believe that if someone in Austria wants to be tested, this should definitely be done free of charge within the framework of the pandemic. However, Mr Federal Minister, you must explain to me why You have set this deadline by the end of October. If you look at the epidemic in the last autumn, you can see: ==References== October was quite exactly the time when the wave of infection started and the test made sense – and now the free testing possibilities run out exactly with this date. How you come to this knowledge does not open up to me, but perhaps overthink I'm sure you'll do that again. Generally speaking, we have to say that the mass testing, which is still taking place, is the bar of any evidence, because in the low incidence we currently have in Austria, you will find virtually only more wrong positive results and individual random hits, which are epidemiological but have no consequence at all. I've looked at the numbers very well: We have days when the countries have to revise 100 percent of their reported positives and put them back on zero. From eight to zero – I think Carinthia has had to do the last week, even the Styria once. All reported cases that appeared in the daily statistics had to be subsequently corrected to zero. Now please tell me what we need 600 000 tests per day in this situation! I don't think that's gonna happen. From my point of view, that's the money that's thrown out. And if you say that the PCR tests, these goggle tests, need to be extended, I would be interested in how valid than these pooled goggle tests are. I don't know any scientific work that proves that they're just as efficient as the antigen testing carried out by professionals. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] These poolings of up to 50 different samples are simply highly ineffective, and if then the CT values go up far beyond the 40 to prove anything, the reliability is simply no longer given. If you want to use this for screening purposes to discover, for example, whether new mutations are on the road in Austria, then I can understand that, only there is a much cheaper variant that is already established in Austria, namely the screening of wastewater. 98 percent of the Austrian population can be screened via wastewater. Water investigations are regularly carried out where the virus load is checked, in which sequences can also be performed, and that costs your last request response, for a whole year only 1.2 million euros – in this order. This is a fraction of what we are currently spending per day on tests – without significant gain in knowledge. Now on the amendments to the Epidemic Act and the Covid-19 Act: I think it is true that Mr Schalmeiner sells the extended validity of restrictions on freedom of assembly as planning certainty for the event industry or for citizens in that country. [[Abg. Soundmeiner: The freedom of the congregation is not limited!]] That a regulation which restricts the freedom of assembly should now apply for up to 12 weeks instead of just four weeks, i.e. three times as long as envisaged, is sold as planning security. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] Mr Schallmeiner, for me, this is no planning certainty, for me this is a long-term restriction without further political debate, which is unacceptable. We also need to discuss the repairs to the green passport that took place, because, as my previous speaker rightly said, the Federal Government did not remember that there is a cure, which may then also get a vaccination, and that for this green pass a unique vaccination after a genetic status is not enough. The repair you have presented here and will decide today does not even attack the problem at the root, but actually only continues what you have already misrated or wronged in the past, because you have negated any objective basis for a genetic status or also for a vaccination status. A recovery certificate is given in Austria if one has been separated from the authority, even if one has never been tested. Well, what kind of medical statement does that have? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] You passed the X-ray one time and then you're considered x-rayed? - It looks similar. It looks very similar with the vaccinations. We know from the studies that the reliability of the vaccinations in the protection against severe procedures is between 70 and 85 percent depending on the vaccine. It has not been evaluated in the clinical trials, but it can be concluded that there are also vaccines in the range of between 15 and 30 percent, say that in about 15 to 30 percent of the population the vaccination does not provide adequate protection. But you can prove that quite simply, Minister of State, you as a doctor know that. You make a titre, and then you know if a vaccination has worked or not. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mückstein.]] You know that, don't you? - Yes, very nice. [[Federal Minister Mückstein nodds.]] In other vaccinations it is done, I have already mentioned the example hepatitis B. Covid vaccinations do not do this, although there is a requirement for immunization at more than 30 BAUs, which is the international binding unit per millilitres. Mr Federal Minister, if you have this immunization, this titre mirror, then it does not matter whether it is caused by a recovery, i.e. by a undergoed disease, or by a vaccination. You have corresponding antibodies, you are immunized accordingly – of course or via vaccination – and you must not be afraid of another disease, at least from a serious course. One will certainly also have a certain cross-immunity, because there are also very good studies on this – also on older corona variants, which were shaved several years ago – that there is a long-term cross-immunity. In other words, let us aim at the definitions of healed and vaccinated! If you already want to give people safety, then bring it on an comprehensible basis, then expand the antibody testing, make it for people for free. From a medical point of view, they are made before each vaccination to determine whether vaccination is necessary at all, whether one or two are necessary, or whether the vaccination does not work at all. If we are already on the issue of vaccinations, I would like to take one step further: We have recently decided EUR 840 million for the acquisition of additional vaccines over the next two years. Now there is an amendment – I have read it recently – which will increase this budget even further because the EU has concluded additional framework agreements. But, Mr Federal Minister, what about the 15 to 30 percent of people in whom vaccination does not have a sufficient protective effect, who are not protected or who know in advance because of their chronic illness or immunosuppression that they do not tolerate vaccination? How much money have you planned to buy these drugs? Where is the supply of budesonide, or where is the budget for new monoclonal antibodies? I've currently read that a new monoclonal antibody, Sotrovimab, has received an emergency permit from FDA. In the approval studies, it has achieved an efficiency of 85 percent in mild to severe course, which is the same level of effect as the protection vaccination. What is planned for this budget? It should not be so that we slid back in exactly the same situation as in the winter, in which we then suddenly have cases on the stations again, and until the necessary medications are there, the infectious wave is over again and the patients unfortunately either died or recovered by themselves. That's not the kind of forward-looking work I'd expect from you. I am sure that in their private ordination you will work in a similar way to what I demand; so I am looking for you to work at the federal level to ensure that the corresponding provision is made. Perhaps you can also provide for acute therapies some of these 840 million euros, which are now available for vaccine procurement, so that we can take care of them in good time and, if a wave is coming again in winter, can immediately implement appropriate treatment measures in the stationary and outpatient areas, because that counts every life. I could tell you a lot more, but my speaking time is over. I'd like to be at your disposal for further suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e24171	Next speaker: Mrs Gabriela Schwarz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e24196	Madam President. Minister of Health! Minister of Labour! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Yes, that was now a short lesson from the mouth of Gerhard Kaniak, his sign pharmacist and certainly very knowing about this matter. Only one thing I don't understand, Gerhard: You are basically against testing, I would have understood it in the last 17 months. [[Abg. Deimek: You didn't watch that!]] Why are you for antibody tests? Is man hurt in your eyes, or am I mistaken? Let's really leave the church in the village! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I believe that the way we have gone over the last 17 months is consistently appropriate for us to go with optimism in the summer. I have been on my way in Austria for the last two weeks and have visited many institutions and many clubs, from associations for the protection of violence and prevention to the Med-Uni to the Landeskrankenhäuser et cetera. What was already very clear there was a great relief that there had been these opening steps. It has been because many – unfortunately not all of God – have reasonably adhered to the measures. These include masks, which we really learned in the 17 months. Unfortunately, anyone who has not understood this up to now cannot help it either. These are exactly those who doubt that vaccinations help, although there are expert opinions, although there is the EMA, although there is the National Vaccination Body, which makes recommendations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Of course, there is also a percentage of those who do not receive vaccination protection, but that is not a subject for you anyway, you do not have to be vaccinated anyway, so what should it be! We let ourselves be vaccinated, we trust that the vaccination will actually protect us. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] What is it about? – It is about checking the measures step by step – we have done so up to now and we will continue to do so in the future – to evaluate, evaluate and take further steps. What is fundamentally different from the past this summer is the vaccination: The more people can be vaccinated, the better the protection for everyone else – and there it is simply and gripping about solidarity. This is obviously a foreign word for the FPÖ. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] If we protect ourselves and let ourselves be vaccinated, we also protect our counterpart, and this is not only about us adults, it is of course also about our children and grandchildren, which we protect by not carrying on the virus. - I don't understand your logic with God. I now come to another point, namely the expenses compensation for the volunteers. Yes, we will continue to need the test roads and vaccination roads, and yes, we are very glad that many people have agreed to work there for the general public, and that is why we want to continue to keep the costs compensation up to a level of just over 1 000 euros free of social security. I shall now put the amendment again in full. Total amendment tabled by Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schallmeiner, colleagues on the report and request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the draft federal law amending the COVID-19 Emissions Grant Act The Council of Nations would like to decide at second reading: Federal Act amending the COVID-19 Emerging Grant Act The National Council decided: The COVID-19 Security Grant Act, BGBl. I No. 63/2020, as last amended by the Federal Act BGBl. I No. 113/2021, is amended as follows: 1. In Section 1 para. 1 Z 6 the word ‘September’ is replaced by the word ‘October’. 2. Paragraph 1b is replaced by the following: 4 added. ‘(4) § 1a Z 5 shall also be applied to expenses incurred by the countries and communities to support persons who are not primarily active in the field of vaccination.’ 3. § 4 will be added to the following paragraph. 10 added: ‘(10) § 1 para. 1 Z 6 as amended by the Federal Act BGBl. I No. XXX/2021 shall enter into force at the end of the day of call. § 1b para. 4 in the version of the BGBl. I No. XXX/2021 appears retroactively on 1. ==References====External links== September 2021 out of force.’ I would like to thank all those who have taken this course of reason and sight over the past 17 months. We are all looking forward to a summer with festivals, with festivals, with culture, with sports, with parties, with a view to meeting friends, at family meetings and everything that belongs to them. Let us remain reasonable, but let us not be anxious, for I believe that if so many people continue to decide to be immunized – and I hope in good faith – then we will have a good summer and also a good autumn and winter. – Thank you very much to all those who carry this! I wish everyone a relaxing and healthy summer! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[17:45]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e24323	The just-readed amendment request had to be reintroduced due to a formal error. He is now correct and is therefore also negotiating. Mr Wolfgang Mückstein has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e24348	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! On agenda item 14: In summary, this novelle serves to facilitate the detection of a low epidemiological risk to genes who have received only one vaccination. At present, it is not possible for genes who receive only one vaccination to receive an EU-compliant vaccination certificate with a validity of nine months. There is no way to cut data from genes with data from vaccinations and thus to issue a suitable vaccine certificate for the green pass to the persons concerned. So you are currently receiving only one certificate in Austria with a validity of three months. This is not only problematic within Austria, but also for travel abroad, as many EU Member States have different rules in this context. The novelle would be a clear relief for about 650 000 people affected by this change at present. However, since, as we all know, it is particularly sensitive health data, the most data-saving and most vulnerable option has been chosen to enable technical implementation. The storage of the transmitted data by Elga GmbH is expressly not to be done in the central vaccination register, which ensures that the data minimisation is kept as much as possible. All in all, this provision will enable also those persons to obtain green pass certificates and to demonstrate the low epidemiological risk. are issued which, in accordance with the recommendation of the National Vaccination Body, only need vaccination for complete immunisation. However, I would like to return briefly to the fact that three Members in this House have been infected – or are suspected – and are now in quarantine. I think one can see that the 3G rule is essential and that it is also very important against the background of the spreading delta variant. I wish out of it Christian Hafenecker, Stephanie Krisper, David Stögmüller and also the employees soon and fully recovered. Finally, I would like to conclude with an appeal: Please go immune! In any case, please also go to the second partial vaccination, because only that better protects against the delta variant! Please carry the mouth-nose protection in the few places where it is still required! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e24396	Mr Nikolaus Prinzzu has now been reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e24420	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This item on the agenda is about necessary adjustments to the Epidemic Act and the COVID-19 Act. I would like to make a few comments, since a lot has already been discussed about the Covid-19 vaccination, testing and the 3G regime. It doesn't fit for me personally: In this House and also outside this House there are representatives of the FPÖ who say: The 3G rule is immediately abolished, but it is all to do so that in autumn 2021 no situation occurs as in 2020! Why do we have the 3G rule? – That is precisely why, in autumn 2021, no situation occurs as in autumn 2020. [[Abg. Worm: Where are the 3G rules? In which country? Where are they?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] For this to work, it is important to be tested, vaccinated or healed. For some of the FPÖ's colleagues: Vaccines show solidarity when those who can also be vaccinated for health reasons show solidarity with others. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] Or, in other words, My personal freedom ceases where I limit the freedom of the other – therefore: go impfe! It absolutely does not fit in for me when representatives of the FPÖ in this House who have been vaccinated for a long time – and they are right that they have been vaccinated! –, out here are stupidities – excuse me! - from the Internet - -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e24459	Need for it You're not apologizing, you're taking it back or I'm gonna give you an order call.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e24474	Of course I'll take it back. [[Call the FPÖ: Bliss!]] There may be better words, but in the end there are, as it were, absurdities on the Internet. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] To tell this out here about the vaccination, even though you yourself have been vaccinated: It does not fit in when you bet against the vaccination, but even the vaccination protection – thank God! – enjoys to say that directly. [[Call the FPÖ:Impfreiheit!]] It doesn't fit together and it's also unolidarian what Mr. Hafenecker did: Getting Covid can happen to anyone – everyone! – but it’s unolidarian when you know about it on Friday and on Monday you’ll see the others. That's egoism. I would expect a little more honesty from the FPÖ – at least from a large part.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e24541	Ladies and gentlemen, have you spoken about business treatment? [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes!]] – Please, I have a word for business treatment.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e24576	For the time being, the honourable Member has complained that Mr Hafenecker had acted unolidarically. Obviously, in the ÖVP, it is not possible that you will finally get away with it. Again to repeat, also for the Austrian People's Party: Col. Hafenecker had a CT value of 34, so he was not infectious. [[Call the ÖVP: It doesn't interest people!]] He forwarded the notification to the Parliamentary Directorate in due time and in time, he reported it to the Authority, he did everything in time. Please stop now! Perhaps you can also make sure that there is no permanent discussion here about colleagues Hafenecker. Again: With a CT value of 34 you are not infectious. Whoever claims this doesn't know.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e24609	Is there another word on business treatment? – That does not seem to be the case. There is now no mention of this. That concludes this debate. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. I shall put the vote as agreed at the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[17:52:13]] 17. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (943 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the wage and social dumping law, the labour law and the labour contract law adaptation law (1011 d.e.) 18. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Markus Koza, colleagues in a federal law that amends the Civil Employment and Processing Act (1012 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e24669	We shall now proceed to points 17 and 18 of the agenda on which the debates will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mr Josef Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e24699	Thank you very much, Madam President. Federal Minister! We are now coming to Agenda items 17 and 18 – two agenda items where light and shadow are meeting. I'll start with the shadow, with agenda item 17. Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and Greens, you are now abolishing the cumulation principle, according to which penalties were imposed per capita in the event of infringements in the area of wage and social dumping law. The government has had a huge chance to redesign the penalties for wage and social dumping in order to prevent wage and social dumping even more strongly. However, what you will decide by ÖVP and Greens today is an invitation to all fraudsters, dubious companies and organized networks to carry out even more social fraud in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm telling you now why: They massively reduce the maximum penalties and the minimum penalties are reduced to 0 euros. In the case of the prevention of wage controls, there is a maximum lump sum which is much lower than the actual damage caused, such as in the case of hygiene Austria, in order to make this visual. Furthermore, you create a assembly privilege, in the course of which the posted workers from low-cost countries do not receive the Austrian wage for up to three months, but the low wage from their country of origin. Even the European Union proposes that a maximum of one month be prescribed. Summary: They make wage and social dumping cheaper in Austria. In the case of transport offenders, increase the penalties, in the case of social fraud you lower them to 0 euros. Someone needs to understand where the logic is. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The announcements of more controls do not help, either, because social fraud has already taken place and the damage has already been caused. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you: Think about it! Wage and social dumping must not be expected. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I should like to make a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Josef Muchitsch, ladies and gentlemen, to the item on the agenda 17, 1011 of the Supplements. This is distributed and before you, I may briefly summarize it in the key points: At the assembly privilege, we demand that the low wage from the country of dispatch apply for a maximum of one month and not, as you suggest, for three months. In the prevention of wage controls by the financial police, we need higher penalties, that is, so high a penalty that, if we are evaded, it is not cheaper than the actual punishment or the damage that was caused. In the case of under-remuneration, we suggest that the penalties apply from 30 percent of the wage and not, as you suggest, from 40 percent. In the case of the minimum fines of 0 Euro: At least the sum of the sub-remuneration found must be considered as a minimum penalty. Our objective must be not to allow wage and social dumping to take place. I am now coming to the light of the agenda item 18. Today, Minister of Labour, we decide on the possibility of creating a building ID card, an electronic map for construction workers by which they are recorded daily on the construction site so that the construction site managers, the financial police and the control bodies of the Buak daily information can actually be found and retrieved from ÖGK and Buak. This building ID card also applies to posted workers. In other words, it is also asked if there is a posting notification and whether there are labour market permits. The advantage is: There will be a rapid review and documentation of the persons present. We create more data security, reduce paper war and increase efficiency in the fight against wage and social fraud. These are also important measures. From 2023 onwards, this card will be available voluntarily to all workers and companies, i.e. from the excavator to the ground-layer when handing over the keys. Three years of negotiations between the construction social partners and the relevant ministries have paid off. The companies at the construction sites are checking themselves, the workers are examining whether they are duly notified, and the control bodies, financial police and Buak, have an essential new, important instrument for verifying wage and social dumping. I thank personally all those who have contributed, especially Hans-Werner Frömmel, the representative of the construction industry. [[Abg. Hörl: Is it still there?]] - Dear Werner, I know you're watching. It is our most difficult project in the fight against wage and social dumping and we are good at rail. I would like to thank all the representatives of the construction industry, the speaker in the construction industry, Mrs Irene Wedl-Kogler. – Dear Irene, thanks to your professional group, for your understanding and that you have applied this steadfastness to carry it out together. I also thank all the experts in the Ministry of Labour and Finance, especially the Supervisory Authority. Mr Federal Minister, you too have contributed and supported this. That's not an easy thing. I know when something is new, you are always a little critical first and against it, but ultimately it is an important and correct step for clean construction sites in Austria. I would also like to thank all the political groups that will be voting in favour today. At NEOS, I will continue to fight to create the conviction that it is important to offer a building ID card in Austria. – Thank you to all those involved. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[17:59]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e24879	The amendment was presented in the main guidelines, distributed to all Members and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Rebecca Kirchbaumer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e24911	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Love Seers and Watch us at the gallery and at home! Anyone who deliberately pays too low wages as an entrepreneur or as an entrepreneur or does not register employees, who threatens to do so in accordance with the wage and social dumping law very, very high penalties, which is of course also right. We entrepreneurs stand by the fact that we allow fair wages to be paid justly – I think that is what we all naturally want. Of course, there are black sheep again and again, and of course they have to be punished on the sharpest and the strictest. With the present amendment of the wage and social dumping law, these penalties will be increased, while at the same time the law will be better in terms of the real challenges in the fight against wage and social dumping. In future, there will be a new level model with maximum penalties instead of a minimum penalty. This was, among other things, a request from the European Court of Justice, which we are now implementing with this amendment. The so-called cumulation principle is also abolished with this novel, which I personally and also see the economy very positive, because it was precisely in these cases that, in the case of formal errors, when errors in a wage calculation have happened, everything has simply been scrambled over a comb, has been counted together and it has resulted in the punishment that was actually not correct. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, we have not met those entrepreneurs we wanted to meet with this wage and social dumping law, and even if employees from abroad have been sent to Austria, this wage and social dumping law has not been punished – and that cannot be in the interests of our economy. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer.]] However, I would like to stress very clearly that the objective of this law must be to punish social dumping – if there is no fair pay – if we do not. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an important instrument in the social society that we negotiate things with each other, and that will be the case in the future. However, Mr Wimmer has said that we have taken everything out of this law, and the employees are being exploited, and I would like to point out that – I have already said this in committee – I would like to point out that. Austrian Entrepreneurship – except for individual cases – does not exploit its employees in Austria! [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer.]] With this newly established wage and social dumping law, we are implementing, on the one hand, a change that the ECJ has given us, and on the other hand, we are creating a more just system. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e24970	Next: Mr Peter Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e24994	Madam President. Minister! High house! Fathers. Of course, this novice of the wage and social dumping law goes in the wrong direction. I can also explain this briefly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] It is to the detriment of employees in Austria, but above all it is to the detriment of decent entrepreneurs in Austria, because you do not help them. I should like to remind you once again – especially the ÖVP – that 98 percent of companies are small and medium-sized enterprises, and they do so properly. With this law you basically open the door and door for unfair competition against decent entrepreneurs, and that makes the ÖVP, is not understandable to me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer.]] Once again – Beppo Muchich has explained it very well –: Of course, this novelle is also to the detriment of the workers. You can see it quite clearly from the example of Hygiene Austria – a parade example in this case, you could explain it for an hour now. And you also described this derogation for assembly troops very well, which nobody can explain at all. That is, if you are doing a assembly in Austria for up to three months, you do not need to comply with any rules in Austria. So I don't know who this is and who wants to explain this to the Austrian economy and the Austrian workers. The Greens have completely resigned in this history, and there is nothing to hear from them today. I would therefore ask the ÖVP once again to tell us how you want to explain that to the Austrian economy and to the workers who pay taxes and work decently. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Colleague Beppo Muchich, with the construction ID card – quite clearly – we are fully involved. I should like to point out that we called for this ten years ago. In Tyrol, there has been something similar for many years. That's a good story, we'll support it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e25046	Next speaker: Mr Markus Koza. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e25067	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Now, we are pretending that the revision of the wage and social dumping law would have fallen from heaven at once, and that we would have changed it from jux to brilliance, as if there had not been a preliminary decision by the European Court of Justice, according to which limits in this wage and social dumping law were simply missing and a fixed lower limit is not allowed – because this is in line with European Treaties – so that the wage and social dumping law has not been applied in de facto since that decision. This decision was made in autumn 2019, and since then the authorities have in fact hardly dared to take effective action against wage and social dumping – and we all know this here. According to these criteria, the case of Hygiene Austria would simply not be punished at all because there is a massive uncertainty among the authorities, which is at all possible, feasible and permissible. That is precisely why we have found the situation that this wage and social dumping law must be amended, because the cumulation principle, which is being repeatedly conjured here, has simply not worked and has not actually been valid. This is unfortunate because I don't think the cumulation principle is so bad, but it has just been removed and was no longer applicable. This is a fact – and anyone who ignores it tells a completely different story about the wage and social dumping law. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Second: It is also a fact that there is a certain myth around the effect of cumulation. The interesting thing is that: If you look at the individual sentences, you can see that they would have been very good and very effective if they had actually been applied. There is a parliamentary request, which has not yet been examined for so long, in the context of which the penalties have actually worked from 2011 to 2019. If you listen to this, you could partly believe that, in any case, there has been an incredibly high penalty against wage and social dumping rules, at a level of tens of thousands of euros. Unfortunately, that was not the case. The authorities have simply not punished. I would just like to say: On average, under-remuneration was punished with 7 939 euros, per employee with 2 800 euros – and this, although per employee would have been possible in penalties up to 20 000 euros. That means it was always punished in the lower frame. Why? - That's the big question. Did the authorities not trust themselves, or what happened? - We can't answer that. The fact is, however, that it simply did not work as we would have liked it all and as we all hoped. Unfortunately, these are the naked numbers. [[Abg. Worm: It should have been tightened! Yes, sharpen!]] That is to say, the cumulation principle was not very effective and, unfortunately, too little dissuasive in these penalties. What we've done now is the following: We have, in fact, set criminal frameworks, even when it comes to equating – compared to the original draft, it has still been doubled; we have very probably also adopted suggestions from the Chamber of Workers and ÖGB – and we have set criminal frameworks for under-remuneration, through which the authorities should speak law and speak law according to the damage. In any case, the criminal frameworks we now have allow a multiple of the penalties that have actually been imposed. Maybe just a short while to conclude: How perfectly this law will work, how well it will work, we do not know. We also did not believe in the cumulation principle in the old law that it would be removed so quickly. But it has been removed. Now we have a law in front of us that finally allows for punishment, which at last creates a framework for the authorities to punish. We hope it will work. But of course we also see: If the effect is not the way we would like it to be, it will perhaps have to be renewed as well as all other laws. Let us apply it once in the future! Let us be glad that we now have a functioning criminal framework, a guidance framework for the authorities! We hope that it will work – in the sense of the workers and also of the noisy businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e25110	Mr Alois Stöger spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e25134	Madam President. In his speech, Member Koza has claimed that the European Court of Justice has repealed the Law on wage and social dumping. – That's wrong. The right thing is: The Constitutional Court has decided, in accordance with the judgment of the European Court of Justice, that the accumulation of penalties under Austrian constitutional law is permissible on the basis of an incorrect basic information provided by the Austrian court. [[Abg. Hear: Ah!]] – You can read all of this in “The Law of Work”. Read Schindler!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e25176	Mr Gerald Loacker has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e25197	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Blackwork has increased significantly over the last few months. The shadow economy in Austria accounts for 25.7 billion euros a year, and all the companies that serve the black economy are celebrating a small feast today. It has already been pointed out that the penalties for wage and social dumping are actually being reduced. Of course, it is not right that everything that has been done so far would not have been allowed. What is now coming will not be held by European law because, for example, a repeater is subject to the same threats as those that happen for the first time – and this, of course, is not fair, not logical, nor sensible. In our view, it is also difficult for the financial police to control strictly. What we needed and what direction to work in would be to exchange data at European level – and unfortunately, nothing goes on. As far as the wage and social dumping law is concerned, I share the opinion of Mr Muchich – and that is something that I think would be called if the Liberals had the same opinion as the Social Democrats. We are committed to a fair market, and that means that those who work past the market are strictly punished. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have a different view at the next point. I have to thank the chairman of the committee, he is always trying very hard to understand well and to get good information from all the political groups, and he has also tried very hard to get our approval. We can't agree to the construction ID that way. Why not? – There is a system in which the construction worker can voluntarily obtain – or not – the construction ID. How do they want to control something if they have one and the other don't? You can't read anything out of such a voluntary system. And: The whole is transferred to a company that is a subsidiary of the Buak. Like now. So we want to control undeclared work and do so with a privately established GmbH, which then takes over administrative tasks?, that doesn't make sense! What is the meaning of this story? – The Buak is an institution over which one can argue with fug and law, and so that it does not fall home to the abolition, one expresses tasks so that one can no longer abolish them, and now she gets this building ID attached, which does not make sense there. Actually, one should look at the Buak more closely, because half a billion euros of securities that construction companies have paid for. As a result, you could already lower your contributions and make it more cost-effective – but of course this is not done, but now we are creating this Bau-ID GmbH. Now to the opinion of the Chamber of Tax Advisors and Auditors so that you can see that I didn't sort of put up something there. They write literally: “For us, it is not understandable why further identity management is to be created by the BUAK, on a voluntary basis and in its own society. If a better fight against wage and social dumping is mentioned, it should be questioned what can be improved in the previous ways of combating and optimising control procedures rather than creating new societies. This measure will also not help to reduce or solve the problem of wage and social dumping in the construction sector. Where a newly founded subsidiary needs data from the ‘mother’, it must be questioned why the ‘mother’ does not carry out the tasks of the ‘daughter’ or what prevents the ‘mother’ from performing their duties.’ What we're experiencing today is big political marketing. Blossom makes Internet postings with: We're fighting black-and-white work now, but in reality it's like this: Today, all companies working on the basis of blackwork have the sect corks banged.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e25258	Mr Josef Muchichzzu has spoken on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e25286	On Mr Loacker's speech, an actual correction: Mr Loacker claimed that in the Buak there are 0.5 billion euros in assets and invested in securities, and he asks why one cannot reduce the contributions to reduce prices. I'm correcting: The EUR 0.5 billion in deposits or investments in securities are open claims of the 150,000 construction workers in Austria. This is their money, which is thus secured there, and it is certainly not used to reduce contributions.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e25313	Mr Martin Kocher has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e25334	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Yes, I think it is clear that wage and social dumping cannot be tolerated. It is clear that black sheep lead to unfair competition between businesses and, of course, to the harm of the employees concerned. What results from the need for the revision of this law? – It has already been mentioned: There are several judgments, and one has just lifted the form of cumulation – the cumulation principle, as it exists – and another judgment has abolished the minimum penalties. There are therefore several needs to do something because otherwise the law can no longer be executed and can no longer be applied, thus losing its dissuasive effect. We have presented this novel and I believe it is in many points a novel that will work better than the existing law. We have made possible a very high criminal framework – up to 400 000 euros – especially in the case of massive infringements, especially in the case of under-remunerations, and we have, of course, also looked at how often this happened. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] Penal frameworks from EUR 350 000 to EUR 400 000 were only available in two cases – despite the cumulation principle, that is, according to the old version of the law – the criminal framework between EUR 150 000 and EUR 200 000 was affected in three cases and only one to five employees in 85 percent of all cases. That is to say, the current ceiling does not limit the criminal framework created by the cumulation. After the review, we have also raised the criminal framework for formal offences, because we have seen that the arguments that have been put in place were quite understandable. We are also putting this into practice, which has not yet been said in detail, when the EU Sends Directive is being implemented. There is also an improvement in many areas, for example, workers, who are employed in Austria or, more precisely, sent to Austria, are now fully subject to Austrian labour law after a shorter period of time. What is particularly important from my point of view is the implementation, implementation, for example, the so-called assurance that Austrian authorities are also able to pursue foreign businesses and also execute the penalties – we have also improved the instruments. I believe that overall this is about implementation. Together with the Ministry of Finance, we have also presented the control plan, which concerns the various sectors in which there are particularly serious difficulties, and we will look at these sectors very specifically – with the aim of improving the working conditions in Austria on a sustainable basis, not allowing wage and social dumping and punishing them strongly and consistently. Yes, it is indeed the case that more European exchange is needed. There is also a new authority, namely the European Labour Authority, and I have already met their new Director and exchanged with him, in order to improve what is the problem, namely the non-enforcement of violations abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e25386	Mr Laurenz Pöttinger has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e25416	Tax evasion, wage and social dumping, social fraud and black work distort competition and are not a cavalier's offence. [[Abg. Worm: My speech!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: So far we are d’accord!]] Our duty is to respect and respond to an ECJ decision. Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it's said a lot. The SPÖ amendment again includes a number of anti-European claims, so we cannot agree; that is the cumulation principle; it is the minimum penalties and the assembly privilege – it is common practice, three months are the rule and also useful in the European area. Remember: If you have a machine, a larger installation, then the assembly cannot be replaced, and it does not make sense for the client. [[Abg. Worm: Can you pay the wages..., colleague Pöttinger!]] It will now be possible to impose sanctions of up to €400 000 by means of an EU-compliant, legal and up-to-date law. Wage and social dumping undermine fair competition and are absolutely socially political. A very good way to carry out checks on the construction, the construction ID card, as already carried out by colleagues Muchitsch, offers a map similar to the e-card with the relevant data that reduces the paper industry on the construction sites. This card is possible through the agreement of the construction social partners and the relevant ministries, as we have already heard today. It is a voluntary system for employees and businesses and is not intended to constitute a mandatory criterion in the case of calls for tenders and to allow for rapid checks and rapid further work on construction sites. I therefore recommend taking part in the building ID card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e25477	Mr Rudolf Silvan has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e25515	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Whenever the social partners and opposition were not involved in legislative changes, nothing happens. This has also happened in the wage and social dumping law. I am not yet talking about the assembly privilege that has been unlawfully extended in Austria – for three months instead of a month, as we have already heard, according to the recommendation. Three months of assembly workers are allowed to work here in Austria, probably in Eastern Europe, such as Poland, Slovakia and the Czech Republic. We know that these wages are much lower than Austrian wages – that is clearly distorting competition from our point of view. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What has not been discussed today is the European legal requirement on decent accommodation and expenses. They are not subject to controls or sanctions when amending this law. We all know the pictures that appear every few months on which you see how posted workers in small rooms, often not even with a shower, but only with a washbasin, have to stay overnight. It has not even been mentioned in this law that there are greater controls. What is really dramatic, however, is the abolition of the minimum penalty, is the abolition of the cumulation principle, which is not prohibited in Austria, as Mr Stöger clearly clarified earlier. The cumulation principle states that if an employer or an employer is caught in the case of wage or social dumping, for example, four workers, four cases, four cases. In the future, this is only more of a crime. Then subcontractors from Eastern Europe will be treated the same as the joiner master, who may forget to report to his employees; they will then receive the same penalty. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] This will be so in the future, ladies and gentlemen [[a table with the heading ‘Lohn dumping brings’, on which two tables of numbers are shown, pointing to the speaker’s desk]] So far, it has been the case that, for example, if someone has been caught in the underpaid of four employees, the minimum penalty was 8,000 euros for the first time, 16 000 euros at repetition. In the future it will be 0 Euro and also 0 Euro for repetition. This is an invitation to organized social fraud, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We know from experience that the district authorities are more likely to impose the minimum penalties. That means that we will have little punishment in the future. We will have a lot of warnings with one finger in the future, but otherwise not much will happen. They allow, Minister, workers to be exploited. As Mrs Kirchbaumer has said, they allow companies in Austria that operate properly to be under pressure, and thus their jobs. The Federal Chancellor has said it again today – repeated x-time –: Whoever works is not allowed to be stupid! – Since Sebastian KurzBundeskanzler is, in this Republic, the workers are the fools. [[Intervocations by Members Hörl and Pfurtscheller.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I always say, If the workers are well, the economy is doing well, but unfortunately this is not the case at present. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e25600	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I shall put the vote at the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[18:26:26]] 19. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1776/A by Mr Tanja Graf, Mr Mag. Markus Koza, colleagues in the Federal Law amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 and the Special Assistance Act (1015 d.b.) 20. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1779/A(E) by Mr Mag. Ernst Gödl, Mag. Markus Koza, colleagues on “Enhancement and extension of the trade union grant” (1016, e.g.) 21. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1749/A(E) by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues on the support of the Minister for Labour for his labour market policy objective of reducing the number of long-term unemployed by at least 50,000 by the end of 2022 (1017b.b.) 22. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 550/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on the amendment of the Chamber of Labour RHO on digitalization offensive (1014 d.b.) 23. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1595/A(E) by Mr Michael Bernhard, colleagues on individual entitlement to Karenz for each parent (1013b)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e25695	This brings us to points 19 to 23 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Rainer Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e25725	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on the abolition of the Special Assistance Act and to maintain it as follows: This act is a classic social reduction, ladies and gentlemen, for a very small group of workers. They always do so when it comes to workers, ladies and gentlemen of the government: They attack the workers from behind. I don't know why, but that's obvious now, because why don't you do it in a proper parliamentary process? They're doing this. Abolition with an initiative proposal – without those affected, without representatives of interest, not even the employers have included you, they have not been informed either, at least our employers have told us –, without discussion and without consideration, ladies and gentlemen, very much appreciated. A great deal has already been said about democracy and Parliament. I'll tell you: This approach you are now pursuing in this amendment is really the last-class approach. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What's this about? – It is actually about 600 people affected. It is about 600 employees. It is about 600 miners, ladies and gentlemen – miners who do hard work in the mines, in cold, in heat, in dust, in dirt. Go to a mine! Go to the Erzberg! Look at this! Go to a salt mountain! Look into a magnetic work! Go to Breitnau! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, they don't go into the pit and discuss there in the white shirt. No, they work and create there. Then the water enters them, and back, it flows out again. [[Clues Down to His Power]] You are taking a very massive approach to this group of workers. I'll tell you: That's not fair! What you are doing here is really absolutely unbearable, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is client policy. That's classic client policy, it can't be! We have been observing this for some time now, and sometimes I have the impression that you really have fun humiliating the workers. We have seen this in the introduction of the 12-hour day, we have seen this in the day-to-day arrangement, and we have seen this at the last plenary session, where you have postponed the approximation of the termination arrangement between workers and workers. But if the farmers only whistle or if the economy just screams a bit, then pour out the stuffed horn. [[Debates of the European Parliament]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is absolutely not all right! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And something else: Today we are doing quite, quite, quite a bit of a bad thing – and I am now looking at the Green Group, because I absolutely do not understand why you are there and why you are making the climber there – we are going to be today, so you will intervene with this law in business agreements and in the social plans. [[in the direction of ÖVP pointing]] That has never been the case in this form, that Parliament is doing this, that is really a taboo! Markus Koza, I'm telling you something: It seems to me that you are really abandoned by the good spirits, because you just can't do that! That was a fundamental consensus – a fundamental consensus! – that we said: A social plan is a matter of fact, a contract between workers and employers, but it has absolutely nothing to do with Parliament. - And you're doing this taboo break today! Mr Labour Minister, I tell you that if you really do so today, the 600 miners that still exist in Austria – and there are no more anyway – like people in second class, and that is really a great shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e25806	Next speaker: Mr Ernst Gödl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e25828	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Last Sunday, I was at one of my favorite cafés in my region relatively early, was the first guest there, but the tables were all well reserved for the breakfast shop. Even before I could find a seat, the boss was standing in front of me and speaking to me exhorting words, because he said: Imagine, I've been looking for ads and with the help of the AMS employee for this coffee house for two months, but I haven't received a single application yet! – We keep receiving such feedback from different businesses over the last few days and weeks, and it leaves us Austrians in some way, because, on the one hand, there is no longer quite that high unemployment, but on the other hand there are relatively many jobs that cannot be occupied. When you look specifically at my constituency – and the AMS in my constituency is designed so that Graz and Graz environments are managed together – you can see that many, many businesses are urgently looking for employees, but on the other hand, about 15 500 people are currently reported as unemployed. This gives you a natural thought, especially when you see that these 15,000 people looking for work live around the corner, where workers are also being sought. Of course, it must be said that, fortunately, there are many people in Austria, millions of people who, through self-employment as an entrepreneur, as a farmer, or also in an employment relationship with their work performance, generate income so that they can shape their own lives and also finance a family. Our social network must, of course, be there for those who cannot generate this income without their own fault. But one thing has to be clear: Whoever can work, but doesn't want to work, he has to expect sanctions! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The unemployed, who do not accept decent jobs, have to expect sanctions on unemployment benefit or emergency aid, and thank you, Federal Minister, for communicating this message clearly outside in recent days. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lag]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thank you also, Federal Minister, for publishing the labour market data every week, because it shows very nice, we are in the middle of a huge upsurge, to an extent where unemployment rates are also lower. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] It also shows that in recent weeks and months, the Federal Government has done a lot of right, together with the majority here in Parliament, namely supporting measures in the high-phase pandemic, word short-time work to secure jobs, as well as timely training and training measures, in order to prepare for this upturn. [[Abg. Loacker:... Short work... Emergency aid increased...!]] Let us draw an interim balance sheet, for example with the Coronajob offensive: We have done so, Minister of Labour, that 100 000 people are addressed, and 113 000 have already taken part in qualification measures and are thus made fit for the labour market. Or at the educational bonus: 22,000 people have already received this educational bonus, and today, in this package of applications which we are now discussing, we also decide to extend the education bonus, with an extension of the time limit, so that those who make a longer education can claim this education bonus, especially in the nursing sector. We are already on the topic of care: We also decide today to apply for a grant of skilled staff, which should also be extended in the training of elementary education and care, so that those who want to change, so that the cost of living can also be replaced throughout the course of training. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the action springboard, because I cannot understand that a Beppo Muchich or other members of the SPÖ always make negative broadcasts to the action springboard, they bad talk. It is an absolutely good action – an absolutely good action! – with which we effectively combat long-term unemployment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Musical]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you have obviously lost your credibility not only with the workers, but even with your own officials, see your party day last week. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Ah go!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Government is making credible labour market policy, and we stand for it: a wide range of support measures during the pandemic, a wide range of training measures in good time before the upturn, and a consistent approach against those who could work but do not want to work. Ladies and gentlemen, so we are and so we will create the upswing!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e25918	Next speaker: Mrs Dagmar Belakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e25940	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! Yes, the social reduction of this federal government continues in huge steps. We've heard it today. He should now lead to special support for people working underground in mining – these are really those who work hardest! – to be removed without replacement. In the sense of justice, the Greens in the Committee have explained to us: So I don't know what to do when heavy workers are taken. This concerns about 350 people, we have heard in the committee. This is a disappearing small number, which has little budgetary impact, but it is a symbol – a symbol for this federal government, namely: Now let's go to a group that can't defend itself because it's just so small! That is something, Minister of State, which is inconceivable. This is actually irresponsible what you are doing, that you are actually turning away what the crisis costs us on the back of those who already have the least and who already work hardest and do the most difficult. This is not enough for you, but also for the extension of the training bonus. You know, you make it really difficult for us, because this is something positive, something good, and of course we voted in the Committee on separate votes, and we will agree to this today in the separate vote in second reading, but we cannot accept the overall law if we do not have anything left for social reduction. We do not want that for this country, and therefore we cannot go along with it, Minister of State. We will, of course, give our consent to the request concerning the grant of skilled workers, which has been submitted by Mr Gödl, because it is positive and correct. I cannot understand that Mr Muchitsch's request has been rejected, because it is only a confession that we want to reduce the long-term unemployment rate in Austria. I do not know, I believe – and I really think it is serious – that it is also a need for you to reduce long-term unemployment, yet you simply do not agree with this request, or simply do not agree, to your trampoline project. Mr Federal Minister, this is all beautiful, perhaps the action springboard will be good, but perhaps not, but I would have expected a confession. So I do not understand why the government parties did not actually go along with it, that is totally incomprehensible to me. Therefore, I must tell them quite honestly that what has remained of this committee, that is, the share of work, is in fact social reduction. I would really ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party and the Greens: Stop it, don't take the people away! This crisis can not only be paid by the working people, by the middle class, by those who already have little. This is not fair, against which we will vote with all vehemence. Think again about whether this really makes sense and whether it is also in the sense of justice, heavy workers who actually work underground – what do you think about the health effects that this has on this group of people? – to take that away, because these special arrangements did not exist for nothing! Remember, ladies and gentlemen, whether this is Christian-social!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e25988	Next speaker: Mr Markus Koza. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e26009	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The labour market crisis as a result of the Corona crisis is weakening, unemployment is falling, employment is increasing. However, the crisis is not over, we still have about 360 000 people in unemployment, but we have 108 000 open jobs offered. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We have so far taken a rather sensible line, we have so far taken a very wise path, namely that of qualification, education, support, support for vocational reorientation, also in order to go new ways in the field of work. More pressure, more sanctions no longer bring jobs, but what actually brings more jobs are investment. What is urgently necessary: Today we have adopted the Renewable Development Act, a law that will bring thousands, tens of thousands of additional jobs in the future. The colleague of the NEOS has already mentioned it today, he has said the package is great. The law is very good, but will we also have the workers who can actually build photovoltaic plants that can really bring forward this energy change – purely technical, purely from work? Yes, I am particularly pleased that today's Council of Ministers has announced that there will be 20 million euros in addition to environmental work foundations – so much on the subject, it will be saved, nothing will be spent on employees – for a work foundation that will train decided in climate professions, re-orientated into climate professions, a work foundation from the Economic Chamber and the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, which is already in the opening holes, which will be supported and financed by the Ministry of Climate Change and the Ministry of Labour. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Head.]] In future, 1 000 people will be trained in the direction of eco-vocations. Another part of this EUR 20 million for work foundations will be used for a transport work foundation Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his excellent report and the rapporteur for his excellent report. Also, the Vida union is already in the opening holes, we have already received very positive feedback that it is finally going on. A total of 2,000 people will be transformed into new occupations, into jobs with a future, in the sense of a just transformation of professions that are unfortunately obsolete or that will no longer exist. This is modern labour market policy: Don't look back, look forward! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am therefore pleased to be able to submit the following motion for a resolution today: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask for broad support for this initiative, ecological conversion must take place socially, and this is the means: modern work foundations. Thank you. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Gödl.]] [[18:45]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e26153	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mrs Karin Doppelbauer, you are speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e26177	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! If I listen to my previous speaker here, then some things are quite comprehensible, but that is a problem I really have with these speeches always, that you just always talk about spending more and more and more money. Sometimes you have to take more money into your hands, but most importantly it is still important that the quality in the implementation fits into the execution. There we in our country, not only are we saying that, as the Court of Auditors also said, we have serious problems. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Yes, the extension and extension of the trade union scholarship and also the educational bonus are important measures that are being taken, but they are just a small step. Austria suffers from a massive shortage of skilled workers, not only since yesterday, ladies and gentlemen. These are problems that have developed in Austria over the last 15, 20 years. We have repeatedly said, since we have appeared politically on the field, that it must be addressed that these problems need to be solved. So far, nothing has happened and in the last one and a half years, during the pandemic, the problem has worsened. Let's just take a look at this: 35 percent of the companies suffer from a strong shortage of skilled workers, another 28 percent of them say more than 60 percent of the companies in Austria, damn it, we have a problem, we need more professionals! Three out of five companies say that they are missing revenue because they do not have enough employees, because the skill set is missing and because this also inhibits innovation in the enterprises – that is, one has to say, is really, really very disappointing. Nearly three-quarters of the farms fear that the shortage of skilled workers will increase even further over the next three years. This is also foreseeable, you only need to look at the demographics in Austria. So these are numbers that you can't simply ignore, although the subject as I said is not new. You must not ignore them any more, you can't ignore them any more, and you really have to take the right measures now! What happens in parallel is that we now no longer have people in work whose industries have simply been hit very strongly by the pandemic. That is to say, there is a very rapid need to take action to train these people and to bring them into new occupations. The last point, of course, is also very true, the number of people who are unemployed for more than six months is increasing continuously. Yes, we have a topic of education, unfortunately it is always people who are less qualified. As the Upper Austrian, coming from the Industriebundesland, of course I must say that we are really top riders with two from my point of view very terrible numbers: 52 percent of the long-term unemployed in Upper Austria have a maximum of compulsory schooling, and at the same time we have 28 000 unoccupied jobs in Upper Austria. We just have to deal with this sheer. That's not what you can solve from today to tomorrow. [[Abg. Worm:... Education policy! Look at the education policy of NEOS!]] In fact, Mr Wurm says it quite correctly, we need education policy, because education policy is still the best labour market policy. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] There are, however, other measures that this Federal Government can take. What we need and can do immediately are simply further targeted qualification measures. Our wish would be not only to throw money on the problem, but also to pay attention to the quality of implementation. A point that is forgotten again and again: There are very, very many, very well-trained women who would really like to work in the industry because the salaries are also corresponding. We need more flexible working time models. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e26229	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e26250	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Fortunately, the situation on the labour market is much better than expected a few weeks ago and much better than expected. Since the opening of the gastronomy and the hotel industry and the arts, culture and sport sectors on 19.5. 58 000 people less in unemployment. This was a rapid decline in unemployment. We reached an employment record in May, of course also due to short work, at that time more people were self-employed than in May 2019. And we are still 16 700 people above unemployment from July 2019, so not so far from 2019, when most of the employees have actually been self-employed. What is the difference from 2019? – The difference is that we now have quite different labour market conditions. We have 108 000 open spaces, which did not exist in that crowd at the time. In many federal states, the number of job openings reported to the AMS is almost equal to the number of unemployed people reported, and if you know that many jobs are not officially reported, because they may of course be employed internally or because they are addressed via career portals, you know how little this is already in Upper Austria or Salzburg, for example. In addition to the many open positions, there are as many qualifications as never before – coronajobsive, the Springboard program, the environmental foundation has been addressed, the Transport Foundation; the largest budget of all time for qualification, in order to reduce this dismatch between supply and demand on the labour market. That is, I believe, the crucial point, and that is why we have several laws and templates on this issue today. One point is the educational bonus: The educational bonus is currently referred to by 22,000 people. This is about supporting those who have become unemployed and who take a qualification measure that lasts more than four months. This is very crucial because many could not afford it otherwise. They receive unemployment benefit and with the additional 180 euros, it is possible to accept longer-term qualifications. We have now expanded this educational bonus, and it is now also being given to people who have already started their longer-term training courses. I believe that this is a very important measure, which, for example, is crucial for the people concerned, especially in the case of longer-term care training, in order to secure their livelihood and income. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Another measure is the expert scholarship, the extension of the professional scholarship to the areas already mentioned: Elementary education, care assistance and forest supervision. [[Complementary of the Abg. Totter.]] We know that, especially in these areas, there is an extreme demand for labour and we are able to make it possible with the expert scholarship that more people who have become unemployed can also qualify in these areas, for the most part, to qualify. This is often the starting point in the care sector, and many people who have taken the care assistance course later take even higher-quality courses and then qualify for the professional scholarship. It also ensures the cost of living throughout the course of training and allows for the change of career, the way to these occupations. Yes, the shortage of skilled workers will intensify, and I believe that the focus of the Federal Government on qualification, on high-quality qualification, is the right way. This is about the fact that you can then also accept better jobs, earn more and, of course, also have more fulfilling jobs. That, I believe, must be the goal of the Federal Government and it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e26304	Next speaker: Mrs Barbara Neßler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e26329	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Dear Seers! Ladies and gentlemen! – Estimated colleague Bernhard, on your request concerning ‘individual right to karenz for each parent’: In the application itself, you pick up important points, such as the pay shears between man and woman – we know that the gender paygap is 20.1 percent – the childcare facilities where we really need to catch up especially with those under three years old, as well as the men's leave – the proportion of men who claim child care benefits is 3.8 percent; this is terrifyingly low and shows us, I believe, where we have a large construction site. In the problem analysis, we agree that the NEOS approach is less important. The text of the decision reads: “[...] provides for individual leave claims for each parent who is at least partially untransferable.” – This sounds good at first, but the dog is buried because the non-transferable karenz claims de facto lead to a reduction, de facto, to a reduction for women if the partner is not in Karenz or does not take advantage of it. [[Abg. Loacker: That doesn't mean anything!]] The next thing is that single parents are not taken into account in this model, and that is why we cannot agree with that. Incentives for Father's Care: This, of course, is also very important for us that you break up old, crusaded role images. I say it again and again, especially the Corona crisis is like a huge magnification glass that has been radically discovering long-standing problems, and it does so in this area enormously. We see that the family work, the care work, the work around their own children is still with the woman and that women also had to do double and triple work during the Corona era. But all of this has to be done in the context of a major reform and not as a work of art. As the first step – the first step we have already taken – we have commissioned the time-use study. The time-use study is therefore so important that we finally see how unpaid work is distributed between the sexes in Austria, so that we have a basis for an evidence-based equality policy. The study is the start. There will be a reform of the Father's Care, as we have in the Government Convention, and there we will also be going to NEOS. Very briefly to the other debate: The Minister has already referred to it, and it is very pleased that the education bonus of 180 euros per month will be expanded, because it will benefit especially those who make the training a care occupation and who have started from September 2020 onwards. We know, and it is very pleasing that this is especially beneficial for women. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e26365	Next speaker: Mr Michael Seemayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e26390	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. A short while ago, on our request by Mr Muchitsch, we wish to support you as Minister of Labour in your project to reduce the number of long-term unemployed. We know from the past that the number of long-term unemployed can best be reduced by making proper programmes for reintegration and employment. The fact that this works has also proved and demonstrated our 20 000 action. We have also put forward numerous proposals to this end. It is now good that the action springboard puts at least the step in the right direction. It is a shame, however, that the focus seems not to be on combating unemployment, but on combating the unemployed in that country. In other words, the debate on the applicability of a degressive unemployment benefit or, last but not least, the increased sanctions on job-seekers cannot be understood. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The discussion does not bring people into employment. Work for people and not against people! The debate of today also shows that this government, however, has a special focus on the self-employed. It is only necessary to look at it: the removal of the special support in the SUG for workers in the mining sector, the intervention in existing social plans, wage and social dumping for farms, a renewed shift in the approximation of the period of termination for workers and employees, as well as the abolition of the freedom of deduction for workers who have worked for decades. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The fact that the Turkish government half is so ticking is known to us anyway, but that their greenery makes the majority available for this social reduction is already very surprising. This probably also had a price, and you got something for it. If that is the case, then remember that this price is paid by workers in that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e26438	Next speaker: Deputies Peter Wurm. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e26462	Mr President. Minister! High house! Fathers. The people feel that this federal government is bringing social cold into this country step by step. I think you saw it in the discussion today. But what's very worrying about me is that I feel that you don't really want to see the causes of this problem. I am not only taking the government into account, but also the NEOS or the Social Democrats. We're not just discussing the subject since Corona, it's gotten stronger now. We have been having the subject of human harm for many, many years. There you have to, I think, open both eyes and look honestly at the problems with both eyes. These, of course, start in the field of education, and we are no longer able – I say quite consciously – to give neo-Austrian people, immigrants, as in the 1960s and 1970s, the opportunity to create a social rise. You just have to see that. That's why we have 20, 25 percent factual illiteracy today. Once again, we must put in place new and honest measures and let go of this social romance. I say it again, we have discussed it today: They want to reduce the number of miners that still exist. In the same breath, however, this government does not discuss the abolition of luxury pensions. I also expect more help from social democracy, because without you it will not be possible. Unfortunately, there are also some social democrats who have these luxury pensions. That would be a subject where you could save a lot of money and give the real pensioners more. What I miss is the announced AMS reform, which was once a huge theme. In addition, I believe, there should be a lot more to be done, Mr Minister, so that the AMS really offers the unemployed a perspective. Finally, another issue I do not understand: Together with Member Gerald Hauser and Social Democracy, we have more or less stimulated a tourism health insurance fund, a social insurance scheme. I do not understand why this is blocking the ÖVP, because we have problems in the area of tourism, gastronomy, where we can solve a lot of unemployment. It would therefore be very, very, very necessary to reform. I see, however, only deterioration for the workers and the unemployed, but no real reforms that bring us forward. Mr Minister, I would ask you now to take appropriate measures in Corona. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e26511	Next speaker: May. Gerald Loacker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e26535	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! In this discussion, our request for new framework budget regulations for the Chambers of Workers is packed. Why that? – Actually, a board is a non-profit company and should not make any profit. That's the workers' chamber pretty much meated, there's a lot of profit being made. For example, 40 million euros remained in the Chambers of Workers in the year of crisis in 2020, which was then put in reserve. So that it doesn't seem that way, however, it's always kind of called xy recovery, and so, for example, there's now a nice provision for a digitalization offensive. I don't know when the workers' chamber are making this digitalization offensive. It might now be a convenient time to spend the money instead of bunking it. In reality, however, at the Chamber of Labour, it pours the money in a lot that they do not know where to go. Our request calls for something quite simple, namely that the balance sheet rules for the AK should be the same as for the Economic Chamber. The Chamber of Commerce also has a lot of Zaster, but at least in 2020 it wrote a minus and revealed it. The Chamber of Labour must not, however, be held to be the same severity as the Chamber of Commerce. They protect each other, the old blacks and the reds. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Melchior.]] Then, in the Committee of Deputies, Mr Comercialrat, Mr Pöttinger, I would like to say: We can't do that to the workers' chamber, that it balances cleanly. Yeah, so I think you can do it. In fact, the members have deserved a clean balance. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[19:05]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e26659	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. Michael Bernhard is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e26687	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I have been misinterpreted by my green colleague Barbara Neßler, I think, and I would like to explain what our request was about. The starting point in Austria is that in many areas we have a clear gap between men and women. We have them in the field of pension rights when they go into retirement, we have them before pension rights in the field of participation in the labour market, we have them in the part-time rate. We have them everywhere where work is free of charge. Now there are two elements that you must not mix. Of course, there is freedom of choice and the need and possibility for families to make up how they want to organize themselves. That's not what anyone wants to do. However, it is necessary to ask what incentives there are to state systems and family benefits in order to cement this gap. I've been concerned about this question. The central element is – we have heard that from many previous speakers –: We already have a labour shortage shortly after the lockdowns. I do not want to call it a shortage of skilled workers, because there is a lack of many corners and ends of the workforce. And we have the situation that half of our possibly working society does not participate in the labour market as others do. Now you could assume, that's all voluntary, because families do this and it's simply Usus in Austria. However, if you look at the surveys, women are much more likely to report that a family start-up and supervision of their children have a negative impact on their careers. Men have a different assessment. At the same time, there is a much higher dissatisfaction between young families and women in particular. The means that we have a situation in which we do not need to be made up of extra, how much of the karence, of the childcare of one part and how much the other takes over. The state leaves this open, and because of the existing family pictures that have been there for a very long time, it pays a half on it. This is statistically detectable in all fields. I didn't want the revolution now in the sense that everything must be identical and 50 : 50 divided. What my request proposes is a minimum. My proposal suggests that we focus on Scandinavian models. There are several states that have a much stronger gender equality, where family happiness – and it must be said quite clearly – has not been reduced. The Scandinavian model provides that a minimum of childcare, the claim for care of both sides, must be used. Now it's in our mind like this: The man makes less and less, the woman has a longer claim. It could also be exactly the opposite: The woman makes less, the man has a longer claim. In Sweden, for example, this figure is stated by 90 days. So we're not talking about something crazy big. However, it has been seen that these 90 days in Sweden have already been enough to create a much more equal structure in the labour market. One lacks something more, the other lacks a little longer, one more easily returns to the profession. Another point, which is not included in my request, is, of course, that child care, educational institutions and all-day schools simply have to be extended to a degree so that both parents can continue their work to a somewhat full-time level later on. All of this was included in the request, and now this request is rejected, which was quite open. The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister, was invited to submit a proposal. So you would have had all the possibilities. Even the wish that the Minister should address Parliament only with a proposal was rejected. The argument that has now been put at the end of Mrs Neßler's speech was: There is a need for a great reform, and that is the way to do it. I have been waiting for this personally for many years, as a Member of Parliament for seven years now. I can tell you, Mrs Colleague, these reforms have always been promised and have never come. Statistics speak volumes. It remains a major disadvantage for half the population in Austria, and at the moment you are contributing to the fact that these statistics will not change as soon as possible. - Good evening.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e26754	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I shall put the votes to the end of the votes on the submissions of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[19:10:16]] Vote on agenda items 9 to 23
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e26781	We have already come to the vote on the reports of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, which I shall make separately on each item on the agenda. Do the clubs want a break? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Draft federal law, which amends the Bundespflegegeldsgesetz, together with the title and entry into 1003 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading, to give a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Fiona Fionadier, ladies and gentlemen, on the billing catalogue for primary care with social security. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mag.a Martina Künsberg Sarre, colleagues and colleagues on 'School Nurses for schools in Austria'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1004 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, the request is accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Draft federal law amending the Voluntary Act, including title and receipt in 1005 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 12: Draft COVID-19 law poverty in 1006 of the supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Worm, fellow Members and an amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Eypeltauer, ladies and gentlemen. I will therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the proposed addition or amendment, which follow the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Members of the Worm, ladies and gentlemen have an amendment concerning Z 1 in Section 5b para. 2 introduced. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – That is the minority, this request is rejected. The Members of Parliament also have power. Eypeltauer, ladies and gentlemen, an amendment concerning Z 1 in Section 5b para. 2 introduced. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those members of the House who are here for an acceptable sign. – This is the majority, the request is accepted. Deputies Mag. Eypeltauer, colleagues have an additional or amendment request concerning Z 1 in § 5b para. 3 introduced. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those members of the House who are here for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, the request is accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 13: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1007 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 14: Draft federal law amending the Epidemic Act and the COVID-19 Act, including title and receipt in 1008 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We'll come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is the majority, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Philip Kucher, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Corona-Bonus for all crisis heroes'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is the minority, this request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 15: Draft federal law, which amends the COVID-19 Exchange Grant Act, into 1009 of the Supplements. There is a total amendment tabled by Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I shall therefore immediately vote on this draft law as amended by the amendments as a whole. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this draft law, including the title and receipt in 1009 of the supplements, as amended by the amendments tabled by Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr President, in order to give an assent. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 16: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its 1010 report of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 17: Draft federal law, which amends the wage and social dumping law, the labour law and the labour contract law adaptation law, into 943 of the supplements. Mr Muchich, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Members of the Muchich, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment relating to Article 1. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. I ask those Members of the House who are here for an acceptable sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is the majority, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 18. Draft federal law, which amends the Civilian Vacation and Processing Act, together with the title and receipt in 1012 of the Supplements. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We'll come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 19: Draft Federal Act amending the Unemployment Insurance Act and the Special Assistance Act in 1015 of the Supplements. There is a desire for a separate vote by Mr Muchich and a request for a separate vote by Dr Dagmar Belakovich. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the request for separate vote and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 1 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This has been adopted unanimously. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on Rule 2 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is largely accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on title and receipt as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is largely accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on item 20 on the agenda, the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1016 on the extension and extension of the grant of skilled workers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[193/E]] We shall vote on the motion for a resolution of power. Ernst Gödl, Mag. Markus Koza, colleagues on ‘Supporting climate-related work foundations’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by the majority. [[194/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 21. Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1017 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 22: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1014 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on ‘UGB-compliant winnings at the Chambers of Workers under the WK Budget’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 23: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1013 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. [[19:21:35]] 24. Point Report of the Tourism Committee on the report of the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Regions and Tourism on tourism in Austria 2020 (III-349/961 d.a.) 25. Point Report by the Tourism Committee on Amendment 1752/A by Mrs Gabriel Obernosterer, Dr. Elisabeth Götze, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Special Funding of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs Funding Act) (962 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e27300	We now come to points 24 and 25 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Karl Schmidhofer has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e27330	Mr President. High house! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Federal Minister for Tourism! Values Watchers at the gallery! Appreciate sisters at home! [[Abg. Worm: My President!]] I can report back to the year 2020 and perhaps look back a little. The year 2019, which was the most successful year in tourism with 153 million guests, voted us very, very positive. The first months of 2020, January, February to mid-March, also indicated that tourism is also steeply uphill in 2020. Unfortunately, in the middle of March 2020, the Corona pandemic reached us in Austria, and from one day to the next, the companies, especially the cable cars in winter, had to be closed in tourism. At this time, Mrs Federal Minister, it took a good hand to respond immediately, and we had already decided to take the first steps in Parliament 14 days later, so that we could initiate assistance so that these companies could, so to speak, experience support from the first day. I can only refer to the liabilities in tourism, to the hardness fund, in particular to the apprenticeship bonus for the more than 9 000 apprentices we have in tourism – which has been a very important sign – but also to the protection screen for organisers to dispel this, to tax charges and ultimately also to the revenue replacement that really helped in the industry to overcome this crisis very well. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] A good test strategy made it possible at the end of May 2020 to reopen the tourism companies over the summer. Mrs Bundesminister, I think you should be particularly grateful that the test strategy and the measures could be broken down. In the Federal States in particular, Carinthia, Styria and Burgenland, the number of overnight stays was well maintained by domestic guests, and we have reached 97, 98 million guests this year. What am I supposed to say? – Take the right measures in the crisis with the Tourism Committee, with the Minister of Tourism and with you here in Parliament! I am also good about the outlook. In the future, we have the investment premium, the T plan, which we have introduced in the short term. All these are signals for the future, which will be very helpful in stimulating tourism as well. I wish you all a nice summer, perhaps a summer with a holiday in Austria, on a mountain, on a lake! Urban tourism invites you to culture and attractions. Have a vacation in Austria! Let's get ready for the winter season! Let us hold the 3G rule so that we also have a secure winter! Autumn will become a bit more exciting again as regards the infections. Let's stick to the rules so that we can go well in winter! I can promise you that I will do everything I can in my future role to help tourism together with our ski association to put sport in the window for the world with tourism and to have joint economic success, especially in the regions outside that need tourism so urgently, so that we can keep everything in motion and put it back into motion. Mrs Bundesminister, thank you once again! My speaking time is not enough to list everything. Thank you very much to the Ministry, to the staff in the Cabinet, to our club staff, to the Tourism Committee and to you, ladies and gentlemen! This has been a work that has really brought tourism forward in the future and also offers a prospect that doesn't have to worry about the future. We're gonna be fine together. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e27379	The next speaker is Mr Josef Muchich. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e27403	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Karl Schmidhofer! Yeah, I've got to give you the right. The 2020 tourism report once again showed how worrying the dependence of some regions in Austria on tourism is. The year 2020 was a major challenge, and financial support was therefore also necessary especially for tourism. What we miss, however, is that we learn from the crisis, instead of this eternal self- praise, Mrs. Federal Minister, as far as financial support is concerned. We should actually learn from the crisis and consider and take appropriate measures for the future together. Mr Gödl – now he's not in the hall – spoke about his experience with a coffee house owner who doesn't get any professionals. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince]] - There he is! Look, Ernst, it's very easy: All tourists will confirm that in this crisis, many good workers have left the tourism industry. These good workers will not return either. That's the problem, and that's exactly why you have to ask yourself: Why did these good workers leave the tourism industry? Please ask you the question: Why has the number of apprentices dropped from 14,000 to 9,000 over the last four years? Why do young people not want to go to these teaching professions? – I tell you quite clearly: because we need new framework conditions for tourism and gastronomy employees. This is not just about financial improvements. It is not only the money, it is the overall framework, it is the working conditions, and it is necessary to improve social standards. The more we support the proposal of the Vida trade union, which has been dealing with the following question for months in many discussions, including with the ÖVP: How is it possible to discuss, challenge and implement the installation of a tourism bank? I do not want to compare the tourism fund with the Buak, Mr Hörl, but it is simply a tourism bank, where employers have an advantage because they are being taxed financially, because there is a need to start funding 200 million euros, so that open holiday claims can be transformed into the holiday fund where there are higher social standards for employees up to over-company training offers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] In summary, in concrete terms: The companies are to deliver the holiday claims of their employees to a tourism bank on a monthly basis. In parallel, they can resolve all provisions for holiday claims and thus have their equity at their disposal and use them accordingly. The tourism workers in this backpack system take their open holiday claims into the new business – that is, without costing the new company a cent. I would also like to thank all those who support this idea: the chairman of the Tourism Committee Gerald Hauser – thank you very much for always being there from the beginning – for our tourism spokesperson Melanie Erasim for the coordination, so that the political creation of the Tourism Fund is further driven forward. I therefore submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Where a will, there is a way – also for the tourism industry. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[19:32]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e27671	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. It is now possible to speak. Gerald Hauser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e27709	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Unfortunately, I have to repeat again and again. Mr Schmidhofer, yes, it was a difficult year. Corona is there to make this happen again. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulations to Members Melchior and Shetty.]] We have never disputed that at all, but the situation in tourism as well as in the economy – caused by the government's corona policy – has of course been greatly aggravated. When Mr. Schmidhofer says that the lifts were locked: Well, who locked the elevator? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tashner.]] We as the Freedom Party would have kept the lifts open, we had always kept the lifts open – laughter from the ranks of the ÖVP, the Economic Party! [[Federal Minister Köstinger:... they were open!]] [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP]] Take a look at Switzerland, please! Switzerland has put it before us. Switzerland had a good winter because the lifts and hotels were open. [[Federal Minister Köstinger:... open with us too!]] It had a value added of 70 percent and not such a total failure as we caused by the government's permanent lockdown of 2. ==References== May. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] This has to be determined here! You didn't let the entrepreneurs work. Why didn't you leave the apartments open? Why were holiday homes not left open? That is completely incomprehensible. Our safety concepts, which our entrepreneurs created last autumn, have successfully implemented. Well, that would have been something for our businesses, not for the Swiss who have successfully proposed it. So go into you once and don't always do that! It has been locked up, you have set up the initiatives, it says! Is it important that you have permanently prescribed the permanent lockdown and that you have done massive damage to the economy as well! The damage goes on, I mean the 3Gs. Mr President, I say this under the heading: It’s just “perverse” when a healthy person has to prove that he’s healthy. That's where the logic is put on the head. I myself was on vacation in Croatia a month ago. There's no one asking for a test, no one's asking for a mask. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] There you can spend vacations that are normal. I can't gnaw all the people because of an incidence of 100 and force them behind the mask and behind the cards. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] This cannot work, and this will further damage our tourism. Unfortunately, tourism does not start as it should, because these 3G rules are absolutely not normal. So, and now we have to help entrepreneurs. [[Call at the ÖVP:... fallen from heaven!]] We tried this in the Tourism Committee. I am going to the last committee meeting, where all ten initiatives were postponed by the opposition. I only mention a few: get existing accommodation facilities, limit the promotion of hotel new buildings, for example through the bed boundaries and do not create additional competition or even the permanent burner since 23. September in the parliamentary cycle: our request to strengthen equity. Now we will soon celebrate one anniversary in autumn. We demand exactly what experts are constantly demanding. That is why I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is exactly what tourism experts have been demanding for a year. It is postponed and blocked in the Tourism Committee, rejected in Parliament. The tourist consultancy Prodinger with the expert Thomas Reisenzahn says we need this because there is a “fall of equity”. The Managing Director of the Austrian Hotel Association, Martin Hochstetter, says – I quote –: This screw is turned. Now I am looking at whether Parliament is actually doing what the economy needs, what the experts call for – that is, at last to strengthen equity, as we have been called FPÖ since 23. September. I'm asking for support. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[19:37]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e27906	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mrs Barbara Neßler is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e27940	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I don't want to. so much about the past, but rather make a perspective into the future. What is it like in tourism right now? – The booking situation in rural areas is relatively stable. But what will not recover as quickly as possible is urban tourism – and we know that, in some cases, urban tourism will also require new concepts, because Congress tourism will simply not come back in its present form. But what we see in urban tourism above all is that the next challenge is already at the door. Tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, we will experience the hottest day this year. This will only be a foretaste on what will happen to us in the next few years. Fortunately, we have a quick vaccination for the Corona crisis, and we do not have that in the climate crisis. This will be a major problem for our urban tourism, for we are honest: I don't think anyone here in the hall thinks the tourists come in crowds and walk through Vienna at temperatures of 40 degrees, in an overheated town without the sea. Therefore, from a tourist point of view, it makes sense for us to cool down our cities and calm down our traffic – and I am not talking about a few fog boxes that we put up somewhere. In particular, NEOS and SPÖ are required. In the last tourism discussion, I have already brought the example. Let's take a look at the other cities, for example Paris: The complete Champs-Élysées will be rebuilt. If you look at the visualizations, you get a real desire to drive there. I can now put it another way: It is important that we see that our places are especially good places for the population, then they are also good places for our guests. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is precisely these cities that are already being cooled down that will have a future, because these are the tourist cities of the future. Again to the SPÖ and to the NEOS: You should really use this opportunity now, because we're not gonna pick it up anymore. To colleagues Hauser, on equity: Our work does not begin if the opposition makes a request, but we are already working on it. What I would like to say in the direction of FPÖ: Some of it feels a bit like this, but the Corona crisis is not over yet. Especially in autumn, I think it's incredibly important that we have a safe tourism. If we act as it always demands and stresses the FPÖ, then we could in principle do the next winter season too, and I believe that no one is interested in it. In terms of human health, for the sake of the economy, in terms of the jobs involved: Get a little more sensible! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] In order to address the next issue quickly, the shortage of skilled workers: The shortage of skilled workers is not a new phenomenon in tourism. We know that, and the answer cannot be the import trade of labour. Especially when you look at the labour market tourism, it is not enough to pick up a patch somewhere, but you have to look at why people and especially young people no longer want to work in the tourism sector, and then we also need to talk about tourism as a whole. For example, if we look at opaque investor models, such as chalet villages that pop out of the ground like mushrooms, then we know that this not only brings a low value creation, but that they often also have socially worse standards than family, small-structured enterprises. Let me say one thing: A sustainable year-round tourism is also called year-round jobs. We have a concept for this, and the concept is called Sustainable, social tourism – a win-win situation for everyone. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e28012	Mrs Fiona Fionadier came to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e28033	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear spectators at home! [[The salutation also in sign language:]] Love deaf people! Our tourism needs above all trust in order to work. What is lacking in confidence is planning security. With regard to economic aid, we have seen how unprepared the government has acted. Mrs Bundesminister, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, where are the guidelines for aid instruments? Why should a city hotel not know how high its replacement rate will be? There have been surprises in recent months, I think, enough. Urban tourism and the event sector, as Mr Neßler also noted, are still very affected and will also need longer to recover. Why have you been watching for months? You would have had the opportunity to create a uniformly efficient instrument, but you didn't use it. The Minister of Finance is no matter the sleepless nights of the numerous entrepreneurs who float in uncertainty. A Minister of Tourism should actually work for those concerned. Further to the shortage of skilled workers: The decline in apprenticeship numbers and the shortage of skilled workers were also problematic before the crisis. The crisis has not made it any better, and the lack of skilled workers is becoming even more evident by generous short-term work. Not only in tourism, but for the whole economy, the shortage of skilled workers is becoming more and more a problem. Experts predict dark pictures: By 2030, there would be a lack of 500 000 skilled workers in Austria, resulting in a productivity loss of around 55 billion euros – not only in tourism. It is therefore clear that reforms are at last needed. About Reforms: All await the concrete results of the consultation process. The jubilee event of the comeback plan tourism brought besides strikingly much self- praise actually only the acquaintance. Yes, there is a need for reforms – in teaching, in the lack of skilled workers, in financing opportunities. Mr Neßler, it's nice to see what we should look at. You're in government responsibility, maybe you'll take care of it! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] However, our plan of action for increased equity was torpeded by the government parties in the Financial Committee. We expect concrete and ambitious reform projects tomorrow. Headings with vague announcements without content and without schedule are too little for us. Perhaps you or the five colleagues from the ÖVP can tell us about the approximate content, or at least how concrete it will be tomorrow. Thank you. [[The adoption is also carried out in sign language:]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e28089	Mrs Elisabeth Köstinger has now come to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e28113	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I think It is undoubtedly true that tourism, the gastronomy, the event industry and our leisure activities have been hit hardest by the Corona pandemic in the last 16 months. It was a very liberating feeling for all of us, 19th century. In May all industries can open up at the same time. I can also remember, above all, very many, very critical voices from the ranks of the House, who have said that this will never work, that it is negligent and without responsibility. De facto we have opened with a very, very low incidence and have seen over the weeks of openings that the infection numbers go further down. This already shows that, in particular, the introduction and control of the 3G rule is the central element for us. Unlike other countries – and I am right in giving Mr Hauser – we have not only opened up and then looked back at how the figures go up, but still maintain a central security element. Tested, vaccinated or healed is the access to all social institutions, to all possibilities where one can meet, where one also celebrates one another, where one spends the vacation to ensure maximum safety. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] With 1. July, i.e. relatively few days ago, then further, really far-reaching easing steps took place. This means, in particular, that major events are again held, that art and culture are back in our country – and that is also the central signal to urban tourism. There the operators live mainly from the frequencies through sporting events, through art and cultural events. All of this is possible again in Austria, and that this has been planned for months now is also due to the organizer protection screen. We have never been able to say to 100 percent how the infection situation will be in three, four, five months, but we have given the organizer industry, art and culture, trade fairs and congresses an instrument that really provides planning security: You can be sure – as the frequency festival is being discussed, for example, and a possible rejection from the city has been put in view – that all the costs that cannot be cancelled are covered by the organiser screen. This gives maximum safety to an entire industry, which is really particularly hard hit. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In the present tourism report, it should be said that 2020 really had a disastrous impact on the entire industry. The number of guests has almost halved. The maximum number of appointments in 2019 was around 150 million in Austria. With 2020, we have de facto fallen back to the level of the 1970s. The failure of the winter season 2020/2021 was particularly painful. I must correct a few words, especially those of Mr Hauser. You may not remember the discussion, but the ski lifts in Austria were open, and it was right to keep the ski lifts open, because especially for the locals, for the people in the regions it was really an excellent opportunity to use at least these wonderful facilities. At this point, a great deal of thanks goes to the cable car industry, which has also contributed and supported these decisions accordingly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Hörl rises from his seat and bows down.]] What was particularly remarkable in 2020: On the one hand, very, very many Austrians have spent their holidays in their own country, The call for a holiday in Austria also follows and has seen that Austria is a very safe but above all high-quality holiday country. What we have also seen is that the booking duration of the guests has been quite extended. While Austrians have mostly booked weekend trips in their own country in recent years, the holiday duration in 2020 with an average of 3.9 nights was similar to in 2007. We certainly hope that we can continue this trend. Clearly, as a result of the pandemic, there has also been a real major intrusion in the field of employment. Only 180 000 self-employed Employees were in the field of accommodation and gastronomy, 42 000 less than in the previous year. For this sector in particular, short-time work was an essential instrument. We were able to save 120 000 jobs permanently and permanently through short work and also secure them – at this point a great thank you to Minister of Labour Martin Kocher for the excellent cooperation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Our test program was a safe hospitality for us last year. ==References== July 2020 we have been able to offer weekly PCR tests to staff in tourism, gastronomy and tourism throughout Austria. This programme has been very popular. For many, it was an element of advertising and, above all, a hanging sign abroad, so that guests booked accordingly. The current test strategy is important and correct and will protect against the delta variant causing a worrying infection. Very short to the outlook: We started the comeback process a few months ago. This is about the current situation. What does urban hotels need, what do the particularly affected industries need for the next few months? – We were able to implement some of the demands from the comeback process, such as the extension of the short work, the extension of the default bonus and the fixed cost allowance adapted to the current circumstances. That was a very decisive and important thing for the entire travel industry. We expect – these are the current forecasts of the Wifo, and on this point I have to contradict Mr Hauser again – that there will be around 20 percent more overnight stays for the summer season 2021 than in 2020. Those who remember how successful last year's holiday hotels were can imagine that we can look very positively at the next few months. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Over the last few months in the comeback process, we have dealt with four key fields of action and topics and structural issues of tourism in Austria with the entire industry and with many experts. The main topic that is currently changing us is the tourist labour market. He was also associated with many challenges before the crisis. Unlike many times, this is not due to the bad working conditions or to the unwillingness of the employees or the entrepreneurs. Tourism has been the job engine in Austria for decades. We have been able to create 40 000 additional jobs in tourism in recent years until the Corona pandemic. This, of course, has resulted in a shortage of employees and, above all, a shortage of skilled workers. We are now working together with Minister of Labour Martin Kocher on this issue and this problem, which is already sending a change in the targets to the AMS and which is also a prospect of a labour market reform. it has. We will address the subject in a sustainable way, providing sustainable solutions for the entire industry. The second very important issue we are dealing with is the financing and capital allocation of tourism, financing elements and therefore also instruments – for this and for the excellent cooperation a great deal of thanks to Minister of Finance Gernot Blümel. What is central to us is the question: What do guests expect in the future from the holiday country, from the Congressland, from the business and travel country of Austria? This is a very central question for Austrian advertising, which we have re-established in the course of this comeback process. Austria's advertising will be a central instrument for bringing Austria back to where it belongs in the next few years, at the world's top. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e28233	Mr Gabriel Obernosterer came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e28273	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the televisions! On the tourism report we now have on the agenda, the Federal Minister and the previous speakers have spoken in great detail. We still have a second item on the agenda, which is the change to the SME law. In fact, it is only a matter of formulating, namely an EU-specific approach to calls for tenders, so not to have the ÖHT inside, but to introduce a neutral concept. I am pleased that not only have unanimous decisions been taken in the Committee on Tourism and Tourism on these two points of the day, but also, as it seems, taken place here in plenary today. Mrs Colleaguer, I am sorry that Mr Schellhorn is no longer here – he would even contradict you in his own group as regards your statements made here. Whether the aids that have been set up for tourism in recent years have been efficient and how fast they have flown, ask your colleague Schellhorn. Then ask a colleague in South Tyrol and one in Italy or in Croatia or elsewhere! You'll see: Let's be satisfied with the way we've done this! It is important that the tourism industry can start again without major financial problems. Everyone is still eligible for payment, and that is the most important thing. Tourism will also recover. On your request, Mr Muchitsch, if he is there. - No, he's not here. [[Abg. Music has the arm.]] - Yes, he is. Servus, say hello! Mr Muchitsch, Mr Hauser, you have made a request together. The tourist bank was also briefly addressed by you. [[towards Abg. Musical]] We were at the union yesterday or yesterday. That's where it's called, it's a threesome request of the opposition. I don't think that's what happened. If I'm talking about it now, I'm sure you're saying, Well, just talk about it. We know that anyway, that's the government party, and that's the opposition party. – The Federal Minister has said what is being done according to Plan T, which is prepared for equity as regards the labour market. You can believe me, I know what the labour market in tourism currently has for problems – thank God not at home, I also say, but in the mass. For me in the Lesachtal it is not only about tourism, but also about the spenglers, the electricians and so on – no matter what the professional sector, everyone currently has a shortage of skilled workers. We all know that we have to fight against it, that we have to do something. I hope that we all sit back at a table and that it is not like the union is currently saying that, as long as we do not agree with the holiday fund, the union will not sit there and work. This is now a struggle for me between the union and the Chamber of Commerce, i.e. the social partners. I'm reading something to you right now, very briefly, I don't have that much time. The Austrian Hotel Association has examined the application you have made. – Mr Hauser, I have always thought that the Free Party is for debureaucratisation, for narrower paths and smears. [[Abg. Hauser: That's why you always reject our initiatives?]] Apparently you didn't read the application, otherwise you couldn't have signed it. Do you know what the experts say about the ÖHV? – I quote: This does not seem very convincing at first glance, at second glance neither – more effort, more bureaucracy, without a cent more, without an added value for the employees. - Quote. That's all I need to say, but the text was much longer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] We broke up yesterday and said that we will continue to talk when all the social partners are involved, and there is only something to be said about: the added value for the employee and not a cash register that was certainly perfect for construction at the time. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens]] We know that the legal framework has changed dramatically. There is no longer the problem of finishing, there is the problem of aliquotation of vacation no longer. All of this has now been regulated by law. Let's see that we get an added value, let's all put together – Mrs. Federal Minister, you're already inviting x-th time – all the experts, all the social partners and all those involved, and let's see that we are solving the problem that is not easy to solve, which is on the table, for tourism employees! Something is clear, too: The working conditions in the tourism industry in Austria are not as bad as they are partly spoken. The Austrian hospitality is known worldwide, and everyone knows when he works in tourism today, how the conditions are. We all work under very clear conditions. Do you know who can't keep these working hours? – These are the many thousands of small entrepreneurs, the small innkeepers in the small Czechs, where families work from early to night. But you can believe me one thing, and I say that from my own experience: No employee is expected to start working in the early nine and stop at one at night, just as it was said yesterday. We don't have that! Please stay with the facts: Tourism is a beautiful industry. As Mrs Bundesminister has already said: Over the last ten years, 10,000 employees have been employed in the construction industry, and 40,000 more have been employed in the tourism sector. So it can't be as bad with us as many people say. Let us be proud of Austrian tourism, the Austrian hospitality! Finally, Mrs Bundesminister, you and the Minister for Finance said: These aids, which the Austrian tourism industry has received, let us look into a good future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e28333	The next speaker is Mr Alois Schroll. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e28357	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Appreciate listeners! Yes, Mr. Obernosterer, one thing I have to ask you before I get into the subject: Where is the added value for workers? That's what you're asking yourself. Many seasonal businesses report employees and then start on holiday again. So where the added value is, this question is already asking for me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that 2020, in particular Friday, will be the 13th anniversary. March, all of us will probably be remembered for a long time, and a very large industry – Mrs. Minister, you have already mentioned it – has been completely infested. You have also mentioned, Mrs. Minister, that the government has seen that the 3G rules operate in the gastronomy and in the hotel establishments that all of this is regulated accordingly. I think the only ones who have seen in Austria that everything that has created their businesses has invested in money that has seen that the guests can feel safe with them were the SMEs, the restaurants and the hotels themselves – not the government! That should also be said. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Tashner: Well! ...!]] – That should be said, Mr Commissioner. I would like to address a point that is very important to me, and I have also mentioned it in the Committee on Tourism: Certain businesses in this sector have a massive problem. Mrs Minister, I would like to read a brief message from a person concerned. I alone have 16 SMEs in the Mostviertel district, and in my city there are two farms. It is about those establishments, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Minister, who was not yet open in 2019 and who was closed by the government in March 2020. Those businesses are now falling through, they are not getting any help for March, April, May, because there are no comparison figures from the previous year. I would like to send you a letter to read an e-mail: In November 2019, when I opened the operation and, fortunately, had a great start, I was able to register eight full-time employees. In the meantime I employ 17 employees, which I am very proud of, four of them are apprentices, and I achieve good profits with my locality – if it may be open. Unfortunately, in March 2020 Corona came to us – I know that no one owes it – and I was aware of my responsibility and I kept all my employees in brief. I was only able to bridge this by means of a loan of 50 000 euros I received for it. Summer 2020 was a small success story with very good sales. Unfortunately, the next lockdown came in November, which lasted a few months. Of course, all of you know how the corona measures affected. Now I come to my real concern: Between March 2020 and May 2020, I have not yet received a compensation bonus because I lack the comparison figures. If you check my tax number, you will notice that in the period 2019 this company was not yet existing. - Quote. Unfortunately, I have to look at my speaking time. – Ladies and gentlemen from the government parties, we have today been able to decide on a very large package. Mr. Obernosterer, you're from the industry: Let us also help these companies, the hoteliers, the restaurant operators, the gastronomy companies that have not yet been open in 2019, which may have had a takeover, have not yet had a tax number that has not yet been given! [[Abg. Hörl: Is there it? That's it!]] They were closed in 2020, and they lack three months of compensation allowance. Mrs. Minister, let's jump over our shadows and help these businesses! It is about very many SMEs and, above all, very many jobs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e28432	Mr Peter Schmiedlechner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e28456	Mr President. Minister! Dear Seers! The tourism report: Due to the disastrous government action for the gastronomy and tourism sector, the last few months were quite challenging. Mrs Bundesminister, you know how important tourism is for our economy, or you could also say how important gastronomy and tourism were for our economy. The report we are discussing today states that the last proportion of foreign guests was 70 percent. Now it would have been right to bring the foreign guests back to Austria. That's not what you've done. Not only the whole winter season has been prevented, although tourism companies have developed and prepared good concepts – in other countries such as Switzerland, for example, winter tourism has taken place, lifts and hotels have been open – but the government's chaos continues. Even now, you continue to break our gastronomy and tourism businesses. With the 3G rule and eternal testing during the holiday, there can be no holiday feeling! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Before the pandemic tourism accounted for 7.7 percent of GDP, with the leisure industry it was almost 15 percent, including, as said, 70 percent of foreign guests. With these conditions which we now have, it will be very difficult to bring tourism back to the fore. For example, a German tourist wrote to me: After the initial euphoria that the boundaries are again open, he was disillusioned by the reason that this happened because the 3G rule is required anyway. As a holiday country, Austria is therefore not in question, he writes in conclusion. Among the current 3G destinations, many tourists want to miss out on their holidays in Austria. How long should our businesses last, Mrs. Tourism Minister? How can you allow the so successful economic culture and tourism to be destroyed under your leadership? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mrs Minister, your concept of laughing and sitting down the crisis is too little!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e28506	Member Alexander Melchior is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e28530	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I find it totally admirable because I somehow realize, there are the liberals, I think, two groups of people: The one group is the one who likes to go on in the evening. Okay, let's take note of that. And the other group is the one that seems to be less on the go or nothing at all. This also applies to colleagues – I don't see him anymore – from SPÖ. I don't know, are you really not on the move anymore with people? There's no such thing as that. [[Abg. Listen: More than you, please!]] When I'm on my way – and I'm on my way all over Austria – and I'm going into a hotel or going to a hostess, you know what they always tell me? – I should like to extend greetings to the Elli Köstinger and to the government team and thank you for the assistance measures, for the support that has come. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Shetty.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Gabriel Obernosterer has already mentioned it today, even Sepp Schellhorn has put himself here and said: It went well, thank you very much for these measures! – It was a hard time, Minister Köstinger said: [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. It's so embarrassing!]] 50 percent less guests, 75 percent less nights. This is something, tourism is an incredibly important economic pillar in our country, and now it is necessary that we continue to support it, continue to be there for them. Dear Elli Köstinger, I know how many entrepreneurs you have spoken to, how many people you have spoken to, and impressive for me is: With the help measures and the lock-up, this project is not to end for you, but the project continues. You take the lessons from the Corona crisis with you, say what the location, the tourist location needs to develop further, in order to be at the top of what it takes to further strengthen the economic location, in order to continue creating jobs in this area, in order to continue to be this hospitable country that is Austria, and I would like to thank you very much for that. I am looking forward to a holiday in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e28607	Mr Nikolaus Prinz spoke. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e28638	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Schmiedlechner, who wrote you this lecture? So much nonsense at once is almost unbearable, you have to hold fast. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The tourism companies – and this is clear to all of us – have of course preferred to take care of guests over the last few months, but we also know why that was not possible. [[Abg. Hauser: Because you locked them up! That's incredible!]] Tourism companies, all those who have delivered their documents, have the compensation payments, which actually receive aid payments quickly and are happy about them. Now they can start into the season, and that's an important step. Mrs. Federal Minister, you will be presenting the comeback plan for Austrian tourism this week; thank you, this is an important step and will support the industry accordingly. However, this applies to all political groups, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to raise another issue briefly: We like to talk about tourism. The tourists, both domestic and foreign, visit our regions because they find a well-kept cultural landscape, a landscape designed by the rural families because the land is managed. At present, in the western Länder, for example in Tyrol, unfortunately, holidaymakers ask their owners: Can we still go up to the alm, is it still safe? - Why? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] - Because of the wolf cracks. The wolf cracks in the sheep insecure the holidaymakers. We really have to take Wolf seriously. On the one hand, this is about the rural families, about the small-structured management that we have, and, on the other hand, about the whole potential in tourism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Loacker.]] I expect to say straight away that we really come to an shoulder closure that we are doing something. The wolf is no longer a endangered animal breed in Europe. If you look at the wolf stock, you can see that it is no longer at risk. Maybe we should think about whether the wolf is the right one: The mascot in the bed is sweet and nice, but if the wolf comes to a flock and has a blood noise, then he is very much on top of it, and you should look at these pictures. There is a need for action in the sense of small-structured rural agriculture and in the sense of the future of our tourism.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e28699	Next speaker is Ing. Johann Weber. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e28724	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! We are now launching the prime time, and I want to lose a few words on tourism. We've already heard: 2019 was a very positive, historic year of tourism, in which we recorded a record with 192.7 million nights. What has this brought about for a national economic impact? – This sector generated sales of 42.7 billion euros. This has to be broken down on the tongue, which is an essential factor in the operation of Austria – I call it that. We also heard what then came: Then came Corona. We expected a super-year 2020, and almost everything came different. Corona has come, but not only to Austria, but to the whole world. A pandemic came, and I say one, and that out of deep conviction: Thank God we had at this time a government that put very quickly and very determined measures on the road and brought support packages – thanks to the government very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That this was possible in this area is already shown by the manuscript of our Federal Minister. She knows what tourism is all about. She herself has generated her income there for years, and she knows what the needs and concerns are in crisis situations in tourism. She really got out of practice, and that's what you've noticed. So, and now we're at a turning point – that's how I see it: We have the happy situation that we have the protection vaccinations, to a sufficient extent, so that we can get into the width, the people who want to be vaccinated can also immunise, and that is one of the basic conditions for slowly, but surely, getting back to a certain normality, also in tourism. What we need in addition to these many negative words – the sick I reject – is particularly important: We need a much more positive attitude. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We need optimism. Tourism, on vacation, is a positive thing, and that is what we need to bring back to the ground and create a positive mood in tourism so that people can come back to us on vacation. Because I quit my last speech before the summer break today, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity and invite everyone quite cordially to make vacations with us in Austria. I wish everyone a nice summer! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e28775	Mrs MMMag.a Gertraud Salzmann came to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e28799	Austria is the country of hospitality. Dear colleagues! Appreciate Mrs Minister! Mr President. Perhaps there are still spectators who are following this debate at home. Today, under this item on the agenda, we are debating the report on tourism in Austria in 2020, and there is nothing to talk about, because 2020 was really a very shocking one. The number of guests has halved, the number of nights has fallen by up to 75 percent, and the number of unemployed in tourism has doubled in 2020, but: Under the leadership of our Minister Elisabeth Köstinger, the Federal Government has decided on the package of measures that our gastro companies, our tourism companies, our leisure businesses, our organisers, our travel agencies have carried through the Corona pandemic in such a way that it was possible, on the one hand, to go through this difficult time for entrepreneurs, on the other hand, but also for workers. The company promotions, the acceptance of liability, the secure hospitality, Mrs. Minister who introduced you last year and which we continue this year, the protection of the events, the economic package, the reduction in VAT and, above all, the short work our employees have held in the tourism industry. Yes, Austria is the country of hospitality, and therefore we will continue to strengthen and support tourism. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] ==References== May, ladies and gentlemen, a breath through Austria has gone. Why? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Because we were finally able to lock up large-scale. ==References== July – I enjoyed this also in Salzburg, I went to the innkeeper and had me cook a good lunch – everything is open again, and this with high security measures. Mrs Minister, I am very glad that you have been so committed. They have developed an aid package that is unique across Europe. [[Call the SPÖ:... Köstinger!]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] Whoever does not accept this, knows only half the truth – and half the truth sometimes sits in front of me. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] As a Salzburger, I'm proud. Salzburg is a strong tourist country, but also the others. We have strong farms. We have a high quality. We have high regionality and sustainability. Ms Minister, with the plan T have [[Intrusion of the Abg. Yılmaz]] Last year she presented a plan for sustainable development in tourism, and we will continue to do so at the tourist location Austria. Let me conclude by coming to an essential point. [[Call the SPÖ:Thank you!]] The Salzburg summer was just opened, and I am very happy to travel on the almen. Why? – The juicy meadows, the cow-herds that feed there, the sheep-herds that are there, that is a beautiful sight. [[Cheerfulness with the NEOS.]] - Yes, you can laugh. Go to the alm, then you know! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Loacker: I'm more often on the alm than you are!]] We have this cultural landscape because we have a good relationship between tourism and farmers. [[Abg. Loacker: Do you go mountain biking with me? ... drive!]] I would like to express my thanks to all farmers at this point, who are so well-kept by this cultural landscape that our home country is also really nice to look at. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] But: This ecosystem is a sensitive one. As a pinzgauer, I tell you here: There are three different wolves that have been found – including a wolf who is walking on the cycle road in Bruck on the Glocknerstraße – over 100 sheep who have already been torn in Salzburg alone on the alpine pastures, although the summer alms has only begun, over 200 sheep who have been torn alone in Tyrol, over 200 sheep that are still missing in Tyrol. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we can no longer see, there we have to do something! The wolf has no place with us. [[In the case of the EIA, and in the case of Bravoruf der Abg. Hörl.]] Austria is the country of hospitality. I wish everyone a good and relaxing summer.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e28941	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is the report a word of fire? - That's not the case. Do the clubs wish to interrupt before the vote? - That's not the case either. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 24: Proposal from the Tourism Committee to take note of the report of the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Regions and Tourism on tourism in Austria in 2020, III-349 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This has been taken unanimously. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Gerald Hauser, ladies and gentlemen, on the strengthening of own capital in order to revive the tourism industry. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 25: Draft SME Funding Act, title and receipt in 962 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Muchitsch, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Gerald Hauser, colleagues on ‘Installing a Tourism Fund’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[20:24:38]] 26. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (947 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Wood Trade Surveillance Act (989 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e29056	We're going to the 26th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Andreas Kühberger has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e29087	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! I'm a Styrian forest farmer and I'm also proud of it. But there are people who say: Well, the forest farmer, he's easy to do, he only needs to cut a handful of trees a day and already he's got his income! No, ladies and gentlemen, it's not like that. The Austrian sustainable forestry industry is an industry that has been operating for more than decades, even over generations, that needs a lot of hard-working hands. It starts with a small planter, either it is a natural rejuvenation or it is planted where I have to see that it is protected from the wild. Such a planterl needs when it gets bigger, light, needs space, and that takes years and decades. Until such a spruce matures, 80 to 120 years have passed. Anyone who has already gone into the wood, as we say in the Styria, knows that this is a beautiful work, but it is also a dangerous and labor-intensive work. Ladies and gentlemen, this is why I would like to thank our forest farmers today, the hunters and hunters, but also the forestry professionals. – Yes, you have heard correctly, even there are the ladies, the women on the march, and that is also good. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] So on Friday at the Grabnerhof, which is an agricultural and forestry training site, I can go to two Ladies hand over a forest worker's letter. - You can clap quietly, yes. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] However, we also have an economic challenge, on the one hand, through the climate change – birch beetles, snow pressure, dryness – but also as far as the price for the wood is concerned. Although in recent months the price for farmers has always increased, the sheer or the gap between farmers and the woodworking industry is very large. I think we have to look even more closely, but that is another point. Why am I telling you this today? . Because with this item on the agenda today we are adopting an important measure by supporting sustainable forestry in Austria. With this Wood Trade Monitoring Act – where, when I refer to my previous speaker Mrs Salzmann, we really need a Wolf Trade Monitoring Act in the Wolf, as far as NGOs are concerned – which is quite, very important for sustainable forestry in Austria, we are implementing an EU directive on the one hand. Today it has already been debated at the EAG, which is the value chain of the agricultural biomass in Austria. On the other hand, for illegally beaten wood, which is often imported into Austria, the penalties are increased sensitively, partly by threefold – and that is also good. In the case of a purpose or a repetition, the maximum penalty is in the future instead of EUR 30 000 100 000, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is very important; also from the point of view that more than 300 000 people here in Austria find their jobs in the forest, but also in the further processing plants. I'll get together again. Those who use wood protect the climate! Ladies and gentlemen, every 40 seconds a wooden house grows in Austria. It stores CO2, and if the wooden house stores CO2 and I have a benefit and plant a new tree again, then I have a double storage. It is therefore important that we decide together today to support the sustainable forestry industry in Austria, which is a pioneer in Europe and in many sectors, in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e29147	Mrs Cornelia Ecker spoke. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e29171	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The local wood market is currently very tense, because our wood stocks are being bought up by the USA and also by China. It is therefore only a matter of time until trade in illegal wood and wood products increases in Austria. It is therefore necessary to do so in order to counter this development. The amendment of the Wood Trade Monitoring Act to the increase of the criminal framework and the better networking of the control authorities sets out first initiatives to promote illegal trade in timber of the proverbial bars. The associated cooperation initiative with the customs office of Austria should also be assessed positively. We therefore welcome this innovation as a SPÖ. At the same time, however, I would like to stress that from our point of view this can only be the beginning, Mrs Minister! Further arrangements are needed to provide the control authorities with financial, technical and human resources for the necessary controls. Today, we will vote in favour of this draft law, but we expect further initiatives from you, Mrs Minister, in this area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the occasion of this presentation, allow me to say a few words on the real issue of the last Committee on Agriculture. The common agricultural policy, in short, CAP, is the roadmap for the future, for the coming years of agriculture in Europe, the Member States of the EU. 387 billion euros of public resources will be invested, 31 percent of the total EU budget. The CAP not only affects farmers, but also all of us, because it is also the basis for having healthy, sustainable, high-quality food on the plate, that we can enjoy made in Europe and that rural areas are infrastructurally upgraded. It concerns all of us because every Austrian and every Austrian pays 180 euros in the annual budget of the common agricultural policy. It would not only be logical, but it would also be their duty that the responsible political actors act there in the interests of the population as a whole. Unfortunately, you have not done so, Mrs Federal Minister, because your negotiating result, which you brought to Austria from Brussels, is very disappointing. I would think it's a blow to the face for the small-structured agriculture in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I personally and we as social democracy are extremely disappointed. You have announced your commitment to the negotiations for more climate protection, Mrs. Minister. The result, however, looks different. Although you have been committed to 25 percent eco-regulatory schemes and this has also been made public, you have been hiding your plans that you already want to offset existing eco-services in the new specifications. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jewel beater.]] – The truth hurts, I think so, so it's just so loud with the Turks. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Jewel beater.]] This has nothing to do with an added value, Mrs Minister, nor is it ambitious to take action against the environment! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer]] I say it quite openly: With such actions, you play a significant part in ensuring that climate change continues continuously. Tomorrow will be a very hot day, that is only the beginning of the bad whole, and this is also dangerous for farmers who will lose their livelihood due to ever more severe weather fluctuations, through long-lasting drought periods. [[Abg. Jewellery: There's agriculture to blame!]] My home country Salzburg is the symbol of what agriculture in Austria looks like: very small structured. We have many farms, which are largely managed by way of acquisition. Large land holdings, as they are found in Germany, are hardly present with us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] The first pillar of the CAP, from which our farmers can directly obtain funds, is precisely promoting these land farms, that is, more land, more money. I have long called for a redistribution in this area in my capacity as Agriculture SpÖ spokesperson. In my view, direct payments are to be broken down according to the labour factor and not according to the area under management. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Minister, you have not only abstained from your vote, but have also expressed your voice in Brussels against a fair redistribution as well as at the maximum level of support. The Germans will have rubbed their hands and probably sent you letters of thanks. The CAP reform would have provided the unique opportunity to finally produce fair working conditions for the harvest helpers, but you have also blocked there, because labour rights linked to clear rules and controls are still a red cloth for you. [[Abg. Jewel beaters:... checks! ... Labour law!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the common agricultural policy would have had this stuff to bring about a real change in agriculture in order to save our farms and not to see this continuing farm mortality. Mrs. Minister, you missed a lot of things. Environmental protection, animal welfare and climate protection have not been sufficiently taken into account. We now have to move within this framework in Austria. As a social democracy, we now call for the implementation of the CAP in Austria to be designed in such a way as to achieve the maximum for our small-scale structures, including for more opportunities for women in rural areas and regions, for more opportunities for farmers, organic farmers, for more animal and environmental protection and, above all, for more climate protection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jewellery beaters]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e29285	Mr Peter Schmiedlechner has now been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e29310	Mr President. Minister! Dear Seers! Today we will decide to amend the Wood Trade Monitoring Act. We support this. A more stringent control of wood suspected of being illegally beaten is welcome, not a question. However, I would also like to refer to the forestry industry in this context. While the saw industry earns twice, the raw materials producers – the forestry industry – are shut down. When the wood prices for the farmers raced in the cellar in 2016 and 2017 due to the birch beetle plague, the construction and cutting wood for the consumers was not cheaper. At the same time, low-cost imports of the raw material price were still fuelled. At that time many promises came from the ÖVP, but no actions. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] While the farmers are now fed with wood prices of 100 euros per foot, the saw industry deserves a golden nose. We have heard it: up to 80 percent more for wood, for the cutting goods. The forest farmers are fed off cheaply, and thus the housekeeper is shut down as well. It would be very important that the higher price is also passed on to farmers. Unfortunately, this is not the case. The ÖVP is silent – it's all the best. But we are already used to this by the ÖVP: great announcements, stagings and no actions. The last Committee on Agriculture and Forestry was the best evidence of the ÖVP's refusal to work: 22 agenda items, two reports that have been taken note of, a request has been put to the plenary session, 19 agenda items of the opposition have been postponed by the ÖVP, including important requests concerning wolf problems, reintroduction of the mother cow premium or the claim: End of price dumping and scrapping operations with AMA seal products. – All of this has been postponed by you, there seem to be no problems in agriculture. Mrs Minister, finally take care of the real problems of agriculture and forestry, instead of your hypocritical staging and show policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e29359	For the accusation of hypocrisy I give a call for order. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With regard to the prevention of Mrs Yılmaz's colleague at the beginning of the meeting, I declare that Mrs Yılmaz is no longer prevented and is taking part in the meeting. Mr Clemens Stammler has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e29401	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Many of us may still be able to remember the 2017 scandal in which large numbers of jungles have been cut off in Romania; and who wants to believe it? – Well, it involved the three major players of the Austrian wood industry. In this respect, this law is to be welcomed, even though it has already been mentioned, the control activity needs to be increased, of course, because punishment alone will not help. Fair trade should also be an issue in Austria, namely intra-Austrian trade. The classification of the wood has been taken over by the wood processor since 1992, and he notes the quality of the wood that is supplied, and the seller – the farmers – has to rely on this measure. Transparency looks different! We also know that there are inconsistencies. That is why it is also time to install a model similar to the milk test ring or the meat classification that works independently. But not only illegal wood comes to Austria, but also the wolf. Yeah, I can add the wolf to my speech. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] The pastures are also an important topic for us Greens, namely the managed pastures, and not only because they are really beautiful – that may not happen to anyone – but also simply because they take over a great protection function. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] Almen offer erosion protection and flood protection for valleys in the most cost-effective way and must therefore continue to be managed. [[Abg. Hörl: Plant variety!]] However, those who believe – and I believe this is the discussion that we have been having for some time now – that we in the European Union will achieve that the Fauna-Flora-Habitat directive is being softened, that is mistaken, that is deliberately spreading sand into the eyes of farmers. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Hörl]] [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] It would be much more targeted to work with the greatest possible expertise on the coexistence between Wolf and Weidevieh, and not quite easy to say to Mr Hörl, from the outset, that it is not because whoever has not tried it and who is not willing to look at models in other countries too, which simply closes itself to a form that is natural. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Light snow]] [[Abg. Hörl: I can't do that!]] [[Abg. Forgedlechner: I can't do that!]] [[Abg. Kirchbaumer:... do not have an alpine economy!]] As a cultivated society, we are very happy to look into the televisions, look at developing countries and complain about demolitions of tigers threatened by extinction, of rhinos, of elephants. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] As a developed society, we would not be able to live with a prey gripper: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Forging Lexer]] I just don't think so – we don't live in huts. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS as well as with the Abg. Light peace.]] [[Mr Brandstötter and Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff.]] In this sense, I should like to make a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Assembly with the Greens, with representatives of the ÖVP and with the Abg. Loacker.]] [[20:44]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e29643	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e29668	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very wide-ranging arch, carried out here by the government parties. On the contrary, I do not think that much more can be said than has already been said by the previous speakers, and it is also adopted unanimously. I believe that the time now shows quite how difficult the wood industry is under pressure. We have seen this, and you, Mrs Federal Minister, know how easy the prices of wood have gone into the cellar over the past few years, especially in the worse segments, and the good segments cannot have received it. This has, of course, made it very difficult for many farmers and farmers in this area. But what else happened in this committee – and I have to say that here – is really at the limit of what can be endured as a parliamentarian. You must not forget, ladies and gentlemen, and especially those at home in front of the screens, if you look at it live or later, we have had an agenda with 22 agenda items. One of these was the debate with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and there was a report that was taken note of, and that is the request. There were also 19 agenda items, all of them opposition requests. Believe me, it has not been discussed, it has just been postponed once again! One after another was postponed with a bad and usually not even content, but simply with a superficial reason. This spectacle by the government parties, which we have to experience here again and again, is slowly no longer to be endured. [[I would like to appeal to Mr Neos and Mr SPÖ, as well as to the members of the FPÖ.]] The Greens once – I have met them – stood for a party of parliamentarism, for a party that is committed to the fact that this House is worth something that we as parliamentarians can be proud and bring forward our concerns. [[call to the FPÖ]] Since they are in a government with the ÖVP, they are exactly the same as those over there. [[in the direction of ÖVP pointing]] You've become exactly the same. [[I would like to appeal to Mr Neos and Mr SPÖ, as well as to the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] You play exactly the same games every day. One thing after another you delay. Do you know what's most beautiful? – You even make these partially really free-of-use delays yourself. You even argue them as bad as the people over there do, and that's what surprises me. [[in the direction of ÖVP pointing]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Salzmann.]] If you at least make the effort to argue that properly when you try to argue this at least properly! [[Abg. Kirchbaumer: A little more respect, “the people over there”...!]] However, there is no debate about it, it is simply pushed over and over again and placed in the circulation, and this is happening all the time. This is not only happening in this committee, but in everyone, and it has been a year and a half since this, so to speak, new government praising itself here for progress in this country. The opposite is true: There is no more work that can be done here because it is prevented by the two government parties.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e29754	Mrs Elisabeth Köstinger came to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e29779	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Perhaps still on the real, causal issue of the debate: We are currently dealing with the novels of the Wood Trade Monitoring Act and thus not only create the regulatory authority to implement RED II, but above all strengthen the fight against illegal logging impact. This concerns in particular the whole subject of imports of wood and wood products from third countries. We are doing a great deal of work, especially in the field of penalties. The maximum administrative penalties for compliance with Union law are at least tripled, for example for the import of illegally beaten wood. The actual principle in the field of consulting instead of punishing is no longer applicable. That means that we have actually tried long enough to act accordingly on the companies, and that has not worked in recent years. The penalties are heavily attracted and also increased. With the novelle, we also continue to take up the participation of the customs office in Austria. The increased participation of the customs office is intended to increase efficiency, particularly in the field of controls. In any case, we will be able to proceed more targetedly. We have already massively increased staff in this area in 2020. Above all, the Federal Office for Forest is a central place. By increasing the penalties, by increasing the efficiency of the control system, we want to address this problem of illegal logging. This is above all a very clear central signal to the local wood industry to understand the domestic forestry. We're really putting on the reins. I am very pleased with a broad agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e29814	The next speaker is Mr Hermann Gahr. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e29838	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! When we think of primeval forests, we think above all of rainforests in Brazil, Amazonia or Indonesia, but there are also primeval forests in Asia or Europe, for example, Russia has the third largest forest area, as far as primeval forests are concerned. It was mentioned in the beginning: Today, we are dealing with the illegal trade in wood, and in Russia, for example, 50 percent of the wood comes from illegal logging. We are therefore taking new legislative measures today to achieve our climate and energy objectives and to stop illegal logging of forests and rainforests. The Federal Minister has carried it out: The criminal frameworks will be increased, the networking of the control authorities and the customs office will increase controls. The issue is that we are continuing the ecologicalisation of our forests, wood as a raw material should continue to have a good image in the future. We should also make sustainable use of wood in the future and the trade in wood should be put on a very simple legal basis. Austria is a country in which almost half of the forest area is covered, and one is trying here in Austria to make the forest economy sustainable, and I believe that this should happen internationally as well. However, I would also like to thank the Federal Minister for the establishment of the so-called Forest Fund, which is spent at EUR 350 million. It is mainly about reactivateing the forests in which damage has been caused by storms or disasters, it is about making the forest air conditioner, and it is very easy to promote biodiversity in our forests. In conclusion: I believe that we are all in favour of this measure. This is an international problem, of course a European dimension, but of course it is also about our country, that we will have forests in the future that meet their mission, which can fulfil their purpose. We as ÖVP stand for sustainable forest management, we stand for a transparent and legal trade in wood and we stand by the climate and energy targets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e29879	Mrs Elisabeth Feichtinger is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e29900	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President. High house! Dear Seers! This amendment to the Wood Trade Monitoring Act will be approved as SPÖ despite some criticisms. However, I also have to say that, contrary to this, we are not of the same opinion as Federal Minister Köstinger regarding the priorities in the negotiations of the new CAP. From our point of view, we need the promotion of social services, which benefit all of us in rural areas. Especially when farmers have their families at home, are pregnant, or have diseases in need of support, I think that is something very important to support them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jewel beater.]] And there is still a lot to be done to eliminate the need to catch up in Austria on the issue of reconciliation between family and profession. Another topic related to the CAP reform is the issue of glyphosate and broadband herbicide ban. We still cannot understand that farms receive support when they put it on their fields. We simply see that the bio-agricultural sector would be much more useful in this respect, because the failure caused by the loss of these inputs can be covered by the support, and in this way one can support the bio-agricultural sector. It is important that we support biodiversity and strengthen biodiversity. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mrs Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the forthcoming CAP reform is the basis for the next few years in the field of EU funding, and this is important. We work together to increase support for rural areas and small-scale agriculture! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e29944	Ing. Martin Litschauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e29969	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Also in Lower Austria, there is an original forest, the Rothwald, and I am glad that we can still count such areas in Austria, and would like to thank colleagues Kühberger for the contribution with CO2 storage in the construction of wood, because that is, I believe, a very important component – and of course only works if the wood comes from sustainable economy and is not illegally beaten. If there is no reforestation there, then it has not worked completely with the wood storage in the chain, and therefore we have to stand firm against it and therefore this increase in penalties is very important. In 2019, the WWF showed that there are relatively few controls and that relatively few cases are also revealed in Austria. I think that should be an incentive for us to have some further increase in control activity, including in terms of the volume of controls. I come from the forest district, and there we have not only forest owners, but also a lot of sawmills, wood processors up to the prefabricators, that is, a very intensive wood chain with a lot of jobs. This is, I think, very important, and of course the question is often asked: Where's all this coming from? – especially when trucks loaded with wood pass through the forest district. And, of course, it is very important that we can say that this comes from a sustainable economy and that we can put up the wood with it. However, we must also consider how we can put these on the rails, for example, because in some towns in the forest district, the number of these transports is already well above the limit of the load. At the price of wood, this has also been the subject: It can now be seen that in America, the price of construction wood has risen by 360 percent, and this leads to the import of wood from Europe. But that's something you have to look at! The international transport, which is largely carried in a climate-damaging way, of course allows wood to be transported across the world. I think that we should achieve more cost-effectiveness, even with regard to transport, then we would not experience these price increases and this transport from Europe to America to this extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e30002	The next speaker was Mr Klaus Köchl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e30031	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Mrs Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The agenda item on the Wood Trade Monitoring Act: The Chamber of Labour, the WWF and the Federal Office for Forest have criticized the lack of quality and quantity of controls in Austria. That is why it is simply important, Mrs Minister, that in the future there will be enough staff to control the whole thing. This is a very crucial story to finally implement the law properly. I would also like to say a few words about the last meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, because my colleagues, my previous speakers, are absolutely right: It is not easy to say that 19 agenda items are being postponed without discussion and without a decent reason – that is a driving force. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] For decades, the ÖVP has understood how to make the policy for the farmers alone – and, interestingly, without success, because farms are locked up every day and farmers are driven into a working relationship. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] And that's exactly this policy: The EU has made available a budget of 387 billion euros, and the EIA in this Parliament is unable to distribute the money in such a way that small farmers do not have to lock. Why don't you do that? Why do you only support the agricultural industry? Why is this not the ÖVP? I just can't understand, and you'll never do that. I am also convinced that the small farmers will sooner or later turn their backs on the ÖVP, of which I am convinced today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One simply has to get a maximum for the small farmer, and I am curious about how you, Mrs Minister, will do so if these individual pillars are now distributed, as you will ensure that the many small farmers, as they are in Carinthia at an altitude of more than 1,000 meters, get their money so that they do not have to lock. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] We will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution - and I would like to say a sentence on the wolves - because we believe that such a herd protection programme is to be made; but please, it does so, too, to help the small farmers. They have to get money to put decent protective measures against the wolves. We do not want wolves to be removed in advance, as provided for in the Liberals' motion for a resolution, but we should try that way. I think that will ultimately be the case. And look at the small farmers, you haven't done this for the last decades!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e30090	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on The word stands with her. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e30111	Mr President. Women Ministers! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! By means of the Wood Trade Monitoring Act, we are committed to implementing an EU directive, and we are doing so at a late date, because this should have been done by June 2021. The fact that Austria as a wooded country cannot always safely meet its own needs – including construction wood – very much to desperate many house builders also fits into the picture. Austria is almost half, 48 percent, made of forest. Another important aspect I would like to take up here is the barbaric attitude of animals. This was also discussed in the Committee, particularly in the case of pigs, which are very intelligent and sensitive animals. I have also tabled a parliamentary request. 85 kilograms of heavy pigs have only half a square metre of surface of motion available, are on the ground floor, which brings terrible injuries and is not a species-appropriate animal husbandry with God. [[Abg. Eßl: What does this have to do with wood?]] The SPÖ has, of course, also made a request at the last committee meeting, which has already been mentioned, in order to put an end to this animal torture. There were a total of 19 applications to make things better, to improve in Austria, but the ÖVP and the Greens have all postponed these applications. This does not try to eliminate misunderstandings, to end animal suffering, but it simply continues so that the ÖVP, the big farmers, the corporations can make their profits, and the greens participate. Turquoise-green agriculture harms the environment, animals and consumers and it will be time for a change of course. [[Abg. Neumann-Hartberger: Well, it's enough now!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e30177	Mr Hauser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e30199	Mr President. Appreciate women ministers! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! The finale belongs to colleagues Hechenberger and me, he has let me take the lead. First of all, I would like to say that I am very sorry that all 19 opposition initiatives were postponed at the last meeting of the Committee on Agriculture. I mean, there can't be anything like that! You can't say: All 19 initiatives are bad! – It's not like that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] Advisors need to know how the government parties deal with our initiatives: They're being postponed, they're being pushed to the long bench. This is not a way of dealing with Parliament! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This also applies to our request – for the x-th time introduced in Parliament – for the x-th time in committee – to the withdrawal of the wolf, which was also postponed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer]] I should therefore like to make the motion for a resolution once again today: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] This brings us to the point of what the farmers showed in a great demonstration last Saturday at Landhausplatz in Innsbruck. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] 2 000 farmers are afraid that the alpine economy in Tyrol no longer works, and that was a great rally. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] This rally must now follow actions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We're going to have Freedom Party take the right measures, unfortunately God does not agree with ÖVP and Greens – always with the argument: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer]] That doesn't mean anything! Please explain to your farmers why the reduction of the protection status of the wolf from Annex IV to Annex V should not apply. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] Of course, in Annex IV, where the wolf is currently, it is maximum protected. The reduction of the protection status in Annex V to the FFH Directive makes it possible to remove the wolf, and this has prevented you from doing so for a long time because you do not agree to our initiatives and requests. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, I now have the Green Group's reply, namely Mrs Geessler, to the question so that we and in particular the listeners know where we stand. [[Keeping a document in height]] There are now nine European states in which the protection status of the wolf in Annex V exists, with possibility of withdrawal, – I quote – in “Finland”, “Estonia”, “Latvia”, “Lithuania”, “Poland”, “Slovakia”, “Bulgaria”, “Greece” and “Spain”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] – Again: I quote from this answer. [[Keeping the document in height]] What is possible there must also be possible in Austria! The question asked was: Why is this derogation possible? – Answer: Because in these countries – Greece and Spain – the wolf population has a favourable conservation status and in Finland that is necessary for maintaining the economic form of the indigenous population, for reindeer farming. Next question: When was the protection status of the wolf, the maximum protection, defined in Austria? – Accession to the EU. Why? – Because the wolf was then considered extinct in Austria. In your direction: Now the wolf is not extinct – so you can and you just have to change it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] To the next question, Question 5 – Colleagues of the ÖVP, beware! –: “Will the Federal Ministry” – Minister Geessler – set “measures” to “reduce the protection status of the wolf in Austria” – answer, please: “No”! Col. Geessler of the Greens says: No, we will not take any measures to reduce protection status. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] I quote from this answer: “No,” she says, “there is currently only a stable pack of young people in Austria. Two more packs were unable to keep up to date. Although the number of genetically proven individuals in Austria is increasing, it is mostly walking individual animals from the different populations of the neighbouring countries.” – I say: The answer to the question is from November 2020, but the situation has essentially not changed. Another interesting answer, also in the direction of colleagues – Mr Hörl, please be careful! –, ask of us: “Is the wolf’s protection status evaluated with a view to rapid reproduction?” – This appears in an application. She says: Yes, every six years is evaluated – that is to say, this will take place anyway, we do not need a new request. And finally, a little casto piece, please: Question from us: “Is there any species of animals in Austria threatened by wolves?” – “Yes”, the “Mufflon”, please! That's the answer! Ladies and gentlemen, we are behind the farmers, we are behind the alpine economy, we are behind the tourism industry, and therefore please support our initiative to reverse the protection status of the wolf. [[Call the ÖVP: Farmers!]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Hechenberger – he now speaks to me – we cannot join the wolf protection application – and so we see your request – interestingly brought in by the Greens, by the Greens, because we want to remove the problem wolves and do not want to protect them. That is why a clear no of the FPÖ to this application, which is a pure placebo application – hot air and nothing behind it. We want to save our alms, we are behind tourism, and therefore I ask for support from our initiative. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[21:09]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e30467	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. Mr Hechenberger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e30492	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate women ministers! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Mr Hauser, just because you're loud, you don't have to transport much content for a long time. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] But now on the real issue The topic is, and this is what we in Tyrol really feel every day, that the mood among the farmers is extremely tense. [[Abg. Kassinger: But now we are looking forward to the argumentative!]] There are cracks every day, despair spreads. [[Mr Lausch and Mr Schmijdlechner.]] On Saturday I had an experience that I can't forget so quickly: A little girl with tears in her eyes has come to me and asked me to do everything that her beloved sheep will get home from the alm in the autumn. [[Abg. Forgedlechner: And you do nothing.]] The fact is, we're going to make an effort. [[Abg. Singer: With you the sheep have two haxes!]] It almost broke my heart. And for this very reason we know that if the wolf does not go, then the farmer goes, then tourism dies in rural areas, then there is also the problem that the natural hazards are increasing massively. That is to say, it is therefore necessary and important all around and in the public interest what our farmers do. Many are currently considering closing their agriculture forever. We must prevent this with all our strength. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Köchl.]] And now to colleagues Gerald Hauser from FPÖ: On and on, I appreciate you very much, but one thing I have to say: [[Call the FPÖ:Please don't!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] Your request is wrong, because first – and I am already important that the spectators are not transported any populism – Austria does not have the power to decide whether the protection status is reduced or not reduced. This is a European decision. Please do not transport that we have to decide here whether wolves can be removed or not. We don't have to decide. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Secondly, We are currently on this issue in Tyrol, because we already have over 200 cracks and more than 200 sheep in transit and the despair is really great. [[Abg. Forgedlechner: You are more important that you do nothing!]] This concerns country competence, because the topic of large prey gripper Wolf actually falls within the competence of the countries. The hunting law, the Almschutzgesetz and the Nature Conservation Act are in the competence of the countries and not of the federal government. In Tyrol, we are really in the process of further development, of drawing up problem animals and thus giving the alpine economy a future. Mr Hauser, tomorrow this will be decided in the Tyrolean Landtag, and I have no signal that the FPÖ will vote in place where it really has competence. [[Abg. Hörl: Look!]] We both know that the state party owner of the FPÖ just recently – perhaps his opinion has changed in the meantime – posted on Facebook that he is against the defeat of the wolf. So please first discuss in your own series, find an opinion and only then make big sayings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e30628	Mrs Rössler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e30649	Mr President. Appreciate women ministers! Yes, your concern was expressed very loud and very emotionally, however, has Your request is a few inaccurate points, Mr Hauser. What you claim in your request, namely that there can be no removal of problem wolves, is simply wrong. The directive is very likely to regulate the specific circumstances in which this is possible. And if there are no other means, it is possible. The directive provides for a very clear procedure. It was also said that the status of conservation must be a more favourable one, which must be established in Austria. Nothing else is also foreseen in the joint motion with the EIA, we say: We acknowledge that we are doing our homework to the Commission and to the legal situation in the EU, to fulfil our obligations, to determine the status of conservation. The corresponding definition, when a wolf is a problem wolf, is also set out in the Directive. There is this possibility. Dissemination So please do not provide false information about any possible withdrawal! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The second is that we have cross-border cooperation, which will continue. We have an Austrian centre, and of course it is the first thing that we support the farmers in how they can protect their pasture animals – that is the most important thing. With your cry, to change the FFH directive, farmers who are affected are not at all helped, and that is why this request is the right way to seek solutions.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e30688	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Before we come to the vote, I can still ask if we can vote. SPÖ? Green? NEOS? FPÖ? ÖVP? - Then I go into the voting process. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 947 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever accepts this draft law in third reading, I ask for a sign to be given it. – That is just as unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strasser, Mr Voglauer, Mr Voglauer, on measures to improve the protection of pastures and pastures. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted in a multi-vocal way. [[195/E]] I should now like to put to the vote the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hauser, fellow Members, on 'Population protection in wolf-like settlement areas by adapting the FFH Directive'. Whoever agrees, I can ask him for a sign. – That is the minority, so the request is rejected. [[21:16:29]] 27. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the Government template (951 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Cartel Act 2005 and the Competition Act (Cartel and Competition Amendment Act 2021 – KaWERÄG 2021) (976 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e30777	We're on the 27th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I would like to welcome Mrs Zadić and thank the Federal Ministers Köstinger and Schramböck very much. Member Yildirim has been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e30807	Mr President. Ministers! Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The so-called EU Directive 2019/1 of 11. December 2018 requires us to strengthen the Federal Competition Authority so that competition rules are effectively enforced and the internal market works smoothly. Strengthening anti-corruption and consumer protection can only be our task. Competition is good, but it must follow free, transparent criteria and be fair. At the end of June, ladies and gentlemen, a survey was published in the “Profile”, according to which 87 percent of the respondents in Austria believe that corruption is widespread in domestic politics. Almost half believe in fragility in the economy. That should make us think. [[Call the ÖVP:... City of Vienna!]] The establishment of this EU Directive is the strengthening of competition authorities to be implemented with the amendment of the antitrust and competition law. That is exactly what is happening with the turquoise-green government template that we are here – on the contrary: The Federal Competition Authority is under permanent supervision. This important authority lacks EUR 500 000 annually. Each year, the Head of this Authority must go to the Minister and ask for budget resources to enable that authority to fulfil its statutory tasks. What that means is quite clear: Too few resources and too little money mean that procedures are getting longer and therefore information is delayed and prevented. In addition, as we read and hear over and over again, the autonomy in the use of funds, which would be so important in the fight against corruption. What has caused much criticism in advance is the introduction of the reporting obligation of the Federal Competition Authority to the competent Minister for Economic Affairs. That was more than – imagine! – 21 very critical and concerned opinions were partially withdrawn from institutions independent of each other, but not sufficiently disillusioned. After all, this authority does not have to inform before it conducts house searches. However, the reporting requirement provided for in the draft goes too far. This strengthens dependence, favours political influence and thus weakens the federal competition authority and thus the fight against corruption. I see a decisive conflict of interest between the Federal Competition Authority and the Minister for Economic Affairs. She, Mrs. Minister, says that you are the lawyer of the economy, the entrepreneur, but the Federal Competition Authority needs a minister who is behind her to carry out her rule of law. That was the reason why we considered the critical suggestion of the economic and corruption prosecutorship – which is very well aware of what it means to work with a few resources and resources, and that is why it is constantly in criticism – which has been publicly expressed, has been very useful and, as SPÖ, has submitted a request to the Federal Competition Authority to settle as a anti-corruption authority in the Ministry of Justice so that this conflict of interest is out of the table. What have you done to your government partners, the Greens? . You have postponed the request once again in the Committee, which is very unfortunate. I feel more and more that you have real problems with wisdom-free, strong control authorities. However, we call for a real strengthening of the fight against corruption. This requires independence and appropriate resources, as the EU Directive would provide, as should a good location policy, which you, Mrs Minister for Economic Affairs, should actually hold very high. However, the implementation of EIA and Greens is the opposite. That is why we will not vote in favour of this proposal as SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e30841	The next item is the speech by Mr Fürlinger. The word stands with him. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e30862	Ladies and gentlemen! I would actually like to boast of the law we are doing here, because it is something good. We implement an EU directive, we update, modernise, digitize, ecologize, have all the desirable points that can be incorporated into a new competition law. However, if you get out of here after my previous speaker, you are almost inclined to become slightly depressed because you feel that the Federal Competition Authority is actually only used to fight corruption and the whole economy is corrupt. Mrs Colleague, the economy is not corrupt! The Federal Competition Authority is one of the best authorities we have, which is sufficiently equipped to act independently, has constitutional guarantees and, moreover, through this innovation, is also freed from almost half of the small cases with the introduction of thresholds in order to take care of the large ones. That's what we're doing here, and nothing else. I'm surprised you don't agree. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It also shows a lack of knowledge of the Constitution, because we have several authorities equipped with investigative powers – e-control, RTR, to name only two – which are also not located at the Ministry of Justice, but at the ministries responsible for it. One more point: There is no country in the EU where the competition authority is located somewhere else than the Ministry of Economic Affairs, yes, there are countries that have no competition authority at all, but there is only one department. That is why we are very far ahead, and I ask you to take this into account. With this innovation, we have implemented an essential element of an EU directive on the independence of the Federal Competition Authority. We have guaranteed them very well. Everything else would be unusual and a system break also with regard to the Austrian Constitution and the Federal Ministry Act. Ladies and gentlemen! Not only have we deregulated and digitized, we will also exempt from fees, with an amendment that I can now bring in: Request of Deputies Mag. Michaela Steinacker, Dr. Elisabeth Götze, colleagues on the government template concerning a federal law amending the antitrust law 2005 and the competition law, antitrust and competition law 2021 – KaWERÄG 2021, 951 of the supplements The National Council wants to decide: The Government template concerning a Federal Act amending the Cartel Act 2005 and the Competition Act (Cartel and Competition Amendment Act 2021 – KaWERÄG 2021), 951 d.b., is amended as follows: Article 1 shall be replaced by the following: In accordance with Article 40a of Regulation (EEC) No 40a of the European Parliament and of the Council, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in Amendment order inserted: ‘40a. § 50 Z 6 reads: ‘6. a framework fee of up to EUR 34,000 for other procedures. No framework fees shall be paid for proceedings pursuant to § 28a.” You see, we debureaucratize, we digitize and we also free ourselves from fees. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[21:25]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e31001	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. Member of the Angerer Chamber has been reported to speak. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e31026	Mr President. Appreciate women ministers! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The last two items on the agenda have again shown beautifully what doublingness the ÖVP is doing here: On the one hand, it is about protecting our alpine industry, our mountain farmers, our sheep breeders and cattle farmers, that is the FFH directive that needs to be changed. This cannot be changed, of course, because it is an EU directive, because there is no competence. This is where the EIA has all the excuses, where the countries are responsible, but not them. However, when it comes to protecting the large donors of the EIA from a control authority, you do not care about the EU directives. The EU Directive, which is based on this, of course says that independence should be safeguarded by the availability of the relevant resources. It is necessary, both budgetary and staff, and that this authority should be given the appropriate powers. This is exactly what you are doing: You give neither the necessary staff nor the budget to the Federal Competition Authority, you even shorten the plans and you introduce a reporting obligation to the Minister, i.e. you take a control authority to the short line. It would be a mistake if you would take the wolf to the short line and put in place appropriate measures to protect the farmers and protect the alpine economy as your large donors from a control authority that has shown antitrust abuses in the construction industry, in the waste management sector in recent years – but you will be holding your hands over it, and you will restrict an authority. That's a mean game of the ÖVP. Amendment this Directive accordingly!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e31065	Mrs Götze is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e31086	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! We have a good antitrust and competition law in Austria and it meets European standards. Today, however, we are talking about the need to implement an EU directive – and we want to – which is about harmonising European antitrust and competition law. This is, for example, about the paperware programme or also about international official assistance. There has been a review procedure, as many opinions have been received, and we have taken these into account, as has been discussed in detail in the Committee. The obligation to provide information, which has been addressed, is indeed provided for by constitutional law. We ensure that these information is made available to the Minister in such a way that the independence of the BWB is not – in any way – affected. This was, of course, very important to us Greens as a control party, in particular, that house searches can at least take place in such a way that they are not already known in advance where they may take place. In other words, the current investigations are not in any way at risk. That's what the BWB decides on its own. However, with regard to investment control, which is in the hands of the Ministry, it is important that certain data are transmitted to the Ministry by the BWB, i.e. the Federal Competition Authority, where the data are received and submitted. These are, of course, sensitive, and we also make it quite clear that these data may only be used for investment control. One more point concerning the social partners: These are involved by the Competition Authority in the form of the Competition Commission. It is also ensured that the BWB decides which data it transmits and when it attracts the Competition Commission. I am particularly interested in two points that we can implement in this directive: On the one hand, we are strengthening the supervision of digital economy and platform economy, so something that is more and more affecting us. This is not only about absolute market power, but also about relative market power, which is sometimes not so easy to capture – for example, when it comes to who has access to large amounts of data, or when an enterprise refuses to mediate and thereby discriminates against certain companies from a market. A second point, which is also very encouraging: There is an exception to the prohibition of cartels, for ecologically sustainable and climate-neutral economy. This means that, with the involvement of the authorities or the Court of First Instance, there is the possibility to provide for exceptions here, thereby creating legal certainty for green cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e31135	Mrs Schramböck has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e31156	Mr President. High house! With this new law towards greater competitiveness and a stronger and functioning market economy, we lay the foundation for something that is very important in Austria. It is about supporting and maintaining competitiveness, it is about our companies being competitive internationally, and it is also about creating and maintaining jobs in Austria. We have two challenges here: One is the topic of digitization, and the other is the challenge in the field of globalisation. We meet many of these challenges with this reform, and I would like to thank Alma Zadić and her team for the good cooperation that we have created a basis here for not only implementing a European Union directive, but also to achieve something quite different, namely ecologisation, digitisation and also the specific dependence on large tech companies, platform economies – vis-à-vis SMEs – accordingly. I can only confirm to you that an information possibility does not in any way restrict the independence of the Federal Competition Authority. It is not about a general reporting obligation which you presented, but about the possibility of information, and I would like to remind you that this possibility is provided for in the Federal Constitution. Like any Minister, I must also comply with the Federal Constitution, and this requires an appropriate law of supervision, including and especially with independent authorities. This clearly shows that the Federal Competition Authority is and remains an independent authority in its execution. That doesn't change, either, if you repeat the same thing ten times. It stays with: The Federal Competition Authority is an independent authority and is in no way affected by its functionality and function. You – some of you – have said this yourself: We have received many inputs and also received many inputs, including from the Supreme Court. As we have taken over quite clearly – that was, I have already said it before, also already planned, but now it is very special – that the Federal Competition Authority in quite specific cases – house searches et cetera; you always address that – of course, no information has to be provided. But what is very likely is – and I am also obliged to inform Parliament here – that, as with any other authority in Austria, there is a right of information here on the basis of the Constitution – and not a reporting obligation; these two things are very, very strong. Let's look at what we're still doing! It was first mentioned briefly: The fusion threshold has been adjusted. What is a fusion threshold – that sounds very technical – and what does this mean for the Federal Competition Authority? – That means – that was also her wish, and we have complied – that the BWB Some 44 percent of merger applications are no longer required to make. These are irrelevant reports that do not contribute to the site at all. This contributes to debureaucratisation and relief. It is our aim not only to implement what is required, but also to strengthen the location by strengthening the effectiveness of investment control, we are concerned with upgrading the Competition Commission – which you never really call – and ensuring the independence of execution. I would ask you to give your consent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e31204	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e31226	Mr President. Estimated women Federal ministers! High house! Working markets are a foundation for our material prosperity. In order for markets to function, of course, it takes mechanisms to prevent market disturbances – be these agreements, in particular price agreements – from being business mergers that prevent a market. The EU has adopted a directive in the knowledge of the fact that competition control is important. We are now in the process of implementing this EU directive, but we must note that we do not consider that some of the requirements of this EU directive are being sufficiently implemented. An essential objective of this EU Directive was to substantially strengthen competition authorities. Nothing can be seen from such a substantial strengthening, quite the contrary. While it is true that this reporting obligation, which has been hotly discussed in the review procedure, has been outlawed, nevertheless remains in the new § 10 para. 2 of the Competition Act, which is part of this legislative package, remains that the competition authority will only be able to deliver opinions on economic policy in the future at the request of the Minister – which we very much regret because we see that the competition authority could actually make very valuable contributions to economic policy due to its direct view of the problems related to market participants. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We see an even bigger problem in the new § 12 para. 2 of the antitrust law – also part of this package of legislation – which regulates the conditions under which mergers can be approved. We believe that these conditions are such that there are problems under European law, with the fundamental freedoms of freedom of establishment and freedom of movement for capital. That is where we see massive European legal problems, which will probably lead to our being held responsible to the Commission when this law is passed in this form. We are therefore not going to give this law any approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e31269	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. As agreed, we shall put the votes to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the judicial committee. [[21:39:22]] 28. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the Government template (941 e.g._Other Organiser Federal law on the procurement and use of clean road vehicles (road vehicle procurement law) (979 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e31301	We're coming to 28. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Member of the Angerer Chamber has been reported to speak. [[Abg. Hanger: Again?]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e31369	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated ministers! In connection with this item on the agenda, there will be an evil awakening for some municipalities and countries in the next few years: This is the so-called road vehicle procurement law, which requires municipalities or countries to convert up to 38 percent of their fleet to e-mobility by 2025 when new purchases are made. Regardless of this, it will be necessary to create and produce, of course, infrastructure, which the Chamber of Commerce has also seen very critically and in this regard says, that it cannot be done in this form, that on the one hand, only one support, which is to be provided from the EU's reconstruction fund, is provided for vehicles, but it simply leaves the infrastructure aside – and on the other hand, from the point of view that, although 1 billion euros have been made available to the municipalities, this billion is to be reimbursed from 2023 onwards, the communities will be difficult to deal with the budgets in the next few years. This is actually an obligation imposed on local authorities, which is not in order, which cannot be financed by the municipalities either. What is more, if the municipalities do not act accordingly, the district authorities will have to impose appropriate penalties. So by law, with compulsion to force someone to switch to ecological activities, from our point of view is the completely wrong way! If you were to create appropriate incentives to buy e-cars or to switch them to ecological vehicles, then they will do so on their own, but forcing municipalities and countries to do so is the wrong way, which is why we will also reject this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e31400	Mr Weratschnig is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e31421	Mr President. Estimated ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! The Road Vehicle Procurement Act leads us to a sustainable procurement, with the aim of reducing CO2 emissions, cost efficiency, energy efficiency and, of course, also in the awareness of global raw materials issues, which are of course to be discussed and addressed. Not to be forgotten, of course, is also the fact-finding with regard to the eco-balance. Ladies and gentlemen! Last week, the Nabe Action Plan, sustainable procurement, entered into force in 16 major product groups – sustainable procurement in all federal institutions, harmonising the criteria – and I am convinced that we are taking on a pioneering role in public procurement, and we can secure it at EU level and also collect corresponding support for this sustainable procurement. The second point is the Clean Vehicles Directive, a directive relating to the framework for the purchase of emission-free vehicles. The road vehicle procurement law we are adopting today is the essential concreteisation of these objectives. At this point, my special thanks goes to the competent Federal Minister Alma Zadić, my thanks also to the award specialists at the Ministry – I think, Mr. Michael Fruhmann should also be mentioned personally, who has stood by and helped us with advice and action – and to all those who have been involved in it in the BMK and also in the BMF. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] The main content, the setting of minimum quotas for re-purchasing within two reference periods: It's a challenge, that's right, for the customer, for the clients, for the organizers of public bus traffic, if up to 65 percent of them were to be driven free of emissions by 2030, and half with zero emissions. This is an essential building block with an essential 2022 funding package, with funding quotas currently in preparation, of up to 85 percent. And the great clients, ladies and gentlemen, the capitals of the state, will achieve an essential advantage, as an example of whether this is in Vienna, in Innsbruck or also in Linz. Battery electric buses in public transport will advance, that is a beautiful task, an important task also for climate protection. Let's pack these opportunities for our industry and business! Climate protection as a job engine is not a romance, but a reality that will also convince the last chamber functionaries. In this sense, I can still quote our climate and energy speakers. Today, this one has referred to the EAG: for a clean operating system that we are setting up – and I want to continue: it needs emission-free vehicle kilometres, and we will work there. – Thank you for a broad support.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e31472	Mrs Bayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e31494	Mr President, the clock has been running for 10 seconds – also nice! [[on the display at the speaker’s desk]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is very important that the public hand is progressing with good example when it comes to sustainable procurement. It is also very often the public hand that sets new benchmarks, which then at all makes a product that is ecologically better than the average, affordable and also available to private customers, because the market would have been too small before. Apart from that, I think it is important that it is not done with green procurement alone. Green procurement or sustainable procurement does not only mean that the product that is finally used here is a green one and, for example, has little CO2. That's good, that's not a question at all, but sustainability belongs to a lot more. Sustainability includes not only the ecological component, as we know, but also the social and economic, and it is precisely this social component that simply emphasizes that human rights, for example, respect social rights not only in the products and things that have been imported, but also in the whole question of the supply chain and how a product is produced, as it comes from where its components come from, where the raw materials come from. That is why, together with Julia Herr, I am putting in place an independent motion for a resolution on ‘a supply chain law for a social human rights-compliant and sustainable mode of production’, because it is simply important for us not only to protect the environment here, but also to protect the environment elsewhere, to protect the environment where things are produced, because it is important to us that it is not only about voluntary self-obligation for companies, but that there are really very clear legal requirements, such as, along the supply chain – including subsidiaries, including suppliers – really human rights, social rights and environmental standards, and because good labour rights here are good, but not sufficient. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Products – also good products – and to export or do human rights violations elsewhere, which is a bird-strout policy that is not responsible, and therefore I would ask you to agree to this request, which, in its core, wants, among other things, that there are due diligence obligations for companies, but also due diligence obligations that are publicly reported on the results of the obligations, that if one finds violations of human rights, social rights, against environmental rights, there must also be a termination or a reduction of these harmful influences, that there should be an interministerial authority that pursues this, which is also by the company's hand and helps to achieve the company's liability for damage along the supply chain, including due diligence tests, but also that there are penalties and sanctions – and this law, among other things, shows: One of the possible sanctions is to stop giving public contracts to a company that disregards human rights. There must be effective remedy for those affected by human rights violations, i.e. they must have the opportunity to sue their injured rights here in courts. Finally, we also call on the Federal Government to actively implement, on the one hand, at EU level, where Commissioner Reynders has announced a supply chain law or a supply chain construction directive for the following summer, in the hope that there will be something good, a good directive, a strict directive, and, on the other hand, also at the UN level at the Human Rights Council in Geneva to support the so-called Treaty process, initiated by Ecuador and South Africa, which provides an international law, a strong law, a robust right for precisely this issue of human rights along the entire supply chain. I very much hope you will agree. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[21:50]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e31790	The application shall be sufficiently supported, duly submitted and negotiated. Mrs Zadić has been reported to speak. – Mrs Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e31814	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We must be determined to fight the climate crisis and to reduce CO2 emissions in a sustainable way. This law is an important step in the fight against the climate crisis, because the public hand must also make its contribution to it, and this law also obliges us to do so. In concrete terms – it has already been addressed – we are dealing with clean road vehicles and public transport. As far as the transport sector is concerned, we have one of the strongest levers to reduce CO2 emissions, as emissions have increased significantly in recent years, rather than falling significantly. That must change, and that will change. This law is a first step, because this law also offers the opportunity to stimulate economic developments and technological innovations. Yes, Austria and the public sector must take on a pioneering role. Together we rise as a public hand, Austria turns to clean, climate-friendly mobility. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Let me say something about the supply chain law: Yeah, that's a very important concern, too. We are also working very intensively on it. You know that the European Commission is expected to have drawn up a directive early next year, in spring. I have already met some NGOs in this area. It is just important to me that something goes further in this area, and we as the ministry are at least on it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e31851	Mr Zopf. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e31872	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home in front of the TV screens, and dear visitors to the gallery! “What we do today is decide what the world will look like tomorrow,” said Marie von Ebner-Eschenbach. At this late hour, we are still dealing with important points here in the National Council. One of these is the promotion of climate-neutral vehicles for the municipalities. It is a small but very important step, as the Minister has already mentioned. The following example: 25 years ago, environmental protection looked different. At that time, environmental sinners were those who have often simply disposed of their waste somewhere in the forest or in quarries – not only domestic waste, but also cars, barrels, large metal parts, everything possible. This was one of the reasons why an environmental unit was established at the municipal office in my home town of Altmünster. The task of the environmental consultant was to build and organize an waste collection centre so that waste is properly separated and disposed of. At that time it was the market municipality Altenmünster also acquired a truck, which has picked up this unrat for disposal in the forest. On the truck one wrote: On the way for our environment. – He is still on the road for our environment in Altmünster. However, if you drive behind this truck when it picks up speed, the view becomes quite dark. Environmental protection has become even more important, because not only forests and meadows should be clean, but also our air. That is why exactly such devices should be exchanged. The financial effort to acquire new equipment for the communities to maintain the infrastructure is enormous. With the decision of the new road vehicle procurement law, we take public institutions of the federal, state and local authorities into the duty to comply with their role as model. With financial support, we provide incentives for our municipalities to purchase new vehicles or to exchange vehicles such as the trucks in my home town, which have already arrived in the years. [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens.]] On the way for our environment is probably more than inappropriate with this device. As a government, we put clear emphasis on climate policy. Mr Angerer, to your information: We are implementing an EU directive, and hydrogen-powered vehicles can also be used. Ladies and gentlemen! This decision, which contributes to a climate-neutral future in Austria, was certainly not the last. Finally, I take this as an opportunity to thank all the staff who are on the road every day and keep our environment clean, for those who free mankind from the dirt are the most honorable.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e31926	Mrs Rössler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e31948	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I would also like to comment on the request made by Mr Penny Bayr, who has just gone into the conversation, which is very comprehensive and very good in the preparation and shows what the issue of supply chain law is really about and why it needs to be done. [[Abg. Bayr is at the government bank and talks with Federal Minister Zadić]] The public hand certainly has a special responsibility, but it is also about bringing companies into the boat accordingly and reminding them of their responsibility. We therefore support the proposal in terms of content – it is very extensive, which also shows how complex the subject is. The Federal Minister has already said that there are initial talks on this. We have already agreed in the Committee on Justice to wait for the Commission's draft and are therefore not yet ready to accept this request. It is premature, and with this complexity it is not possible to check in the short time which points can easily be taken over, because it is not - - - Yes, we would like to take a step further, but we support the request in content, and I am glad that it is being discussed here today. [[Abg. Loacker: This is how we always deal with your short-term changes!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e31992	There is now no mention of this. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Then we shall put the vote as agreed at the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Justice. [[21:58:10]] 29. Point Report of the Committee of Justice on the Government template (949 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act establishing a federal law on the guarantee of consumer contracts on goods or digital services (Consumer Performance Act – VGG) and amending the general Civil Code and the Consumer Protection Act (GRUG) (980 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e32026	We're coming to the 29th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I can give him the word. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e32053	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This item on the agenda is about the implementation of two EU directives: the Digital Content Directive and the Purchasing Directive. Both are now redefined and implemented in a new law, in the Consumer Performance Act, and in the Enforcement Directive Act. In fact, it would be a huge opportunity to create new rules in consumer law with this implementation or with this implementing law. It is only in this case that I cannot give you courage, Mrs Federal Minister. I am convinced that this time would have been much more possible and that you have actually fulfilled a speedy, mandatory implementation – perhaps also due to the possible early sanctions for non-implementation of EU directives. However, there is a lot missing in content. That is not just what I say, but that is what all consumer organisations say. In this case, it is very specific that you have really failed to implement essential guarantee schemes. Currently, a third of all complaints are warranted by important consumer organisations such as the CCI. In the Chamber of Labour, there are around 40 000 cases per year in which complaints by consumers in the area of warranty claims exist. These claims would have been justified to say: That's what you're going to do. This is a concrete extension of the warranty period with regard to the durability of related electrical appliances or products and goods. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] We have two years in it, we have not regulated anything more, but it would have been possible to go to five years, as many other European countries have done. We did not do it, we missed something again and stayed with what we had so far – at the minimum. We have also failed to allow us to complain directly to the importer or the manufacturer. Other states, Norway, Iceland and so on, have the possibility, we have not made it. Now I'm wondering, Why didn't you do that? – You have argued in the law, in the explanations, that during the Covid-Pandemy the economy suffers and now a problem would have occurred. That's why you also said: We do not want us to create a more consumer-friendly regulation. They are minimum standards, there are no necessary arrangements that you have taken, and we are actually keeping up with what we had. I claim that this is not a big throw when it comes to consumer protection rights, but it is not a big throw either when it comes to climate protection, because you should have implemented the government programme. Your government programme states that the promotion of measures for the sustainability of the products and measures against the planned obsolescence is to be fulfilled, and you are actually torpedoing your own government programme by not implementing it in this case. Mrs Bundesminister, your courage in other areas is known, in this area I miss this courage and clarity, and therefore we say no to this law. It is not consumer-friendly and it is also not climate-friendly because the garbage mountains and the electric scrap will remain. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e32104	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e32126	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to environmental protection, climate protection, electrical scrap, it is the power of small steps, and if we implement this right of guarantee here today, we do one thing: You all here can, if you want – you shouldn't do it – stream the football match. They all have end reception devices, smartphones, tablets, laptops, and thus get You digital content and you buy this digital content. What is now inside this law – and that is very good – is: If you need an update of the software if streaming does not work, then you can go to the company and say: I want an update, I want my device to work!, and you can ask for that for at least two years. For example, this is the case with a smartphone. You buy yourself a smartphone and normally, if there are problems, there are the problems within the first half of the year. We are now changing the burden of proof, i.e. if the evidence is such that the entrepreneur has to clarify it, it will be easier for the consumer, and if the warranty period is such that the burden of proof is extended from half a year to one year, then this is a big throw. As far as electrical scrap is concerned, we throw away a lot less phones. And how do we do that now that we can enjoy it? – This guarantee is good for climate protection and will cause us to throw away fewer phones. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is not easy, of course, to talk about a law that brings consumers a lot. Not to implement this directive is the worst – and to say: I know better and I can do better. We have an EU directive here that improves the guarantee that, for example, after the warranty period, we have three months to assert something, and that is good if we cannot make immediate contact with the entrepreneur. You may have noticed it in pandemic times, you don't reach the entrepreneurs so fast. You have a washing machine, you have a smartphone or you have a dryer, and now you have the possibility to claim defects longer, and therefore this warranty law is a good law within the meaning of climate protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e32171	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e32192	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! We are now talking – as we have already heard – about EU directives that are being implemented. The word minimalist has also fallen – yes, you can say so. It is from our point of view, and that is why we will also refuse to approve this law, not consumer protection law, but an economic protection law. It has been implemented minimalistly so that the EU directives are being fulfilled, but there is no trace of consumer protection. You'd have expected a lot more. You know, Mrs Bundesminister – or towards the ÖVP – what I do not understand: Why make such an important law, namely one for all important law – we have just heard from colleagues Drobits, what is involved in complaints from the Association for Consumer Protection and the Federal Chamber of Labour annually – in the Committee no hearing? You would have had the opportunity! Why don't you make an expert hearing, just put it into practice? – I can tell you why you didn’t make a hearing: The experts would have told you something completely different, and this was something they wanted to avoid, because they wanted to go through this mini-law and so on through the EU directives. Mr Fischer, I appreciate, yes, but to what you have said about climate change and so on, I must say: This extension of the warranty has been available up to now. This has offered very, very many electric wholesalers that you could additionally extend your warranty or guarantee time and, and, and, buy, and that has made a lot of consumers. That's not a big throw from our point of view. A big throw would have been if consumers could do much, much more about it, but that didn't mean to stop the economy and the ÖVP, and it was so, so honest that the Greens in this law were once again the cheap beekeeperl and the ÖVP naturally protected the economy. One has implemented minimally, one could have done more of it. The EU directives in all honours, but they could have done more out of this law. It is also incomprehensible for us why there is no expert hearing. Is one afraid of the expert, or did one simply expect the experts to draw a very different picture from that drawn by colleague Fischer earlier, or will this be drawn here after me by my colleague Steinacker? I think there would have been a lot of things that could have been done. They didn't want it, they didn't want any experts in the committee, and there's really a lot, much broken. I honestly do not understand the NEOS that here they give their consent to this minimalist law. I think there would be in the interests of consumers – and that is all of us! – Much, much more can be achieved and much, much more must go in with heart blood. We would have been guilty of this to the population. In this sense, we are sorry, but we will not agree to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e32233	Mr Steinacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e32254	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Citizens' values! Yes, we are implementing the EU directives, and I should like to say to Mr Lausch that he is the first to say: Mr Lausch, also an adequate review is an expert hearing, only in written form. [[Abg. Listen: Ah!]] Please take note. You know how many opinions there have been on this law, which is sufficient and - as you do - I found that there have been many good suggestions in it, with which we have also created a good government template, namely a government template that helps and brings additional rights to consumers in Austria. [[Abg. Listen, they were negative! They were negative!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] And something else, Mr. Lausch, was written to you in the main book: An entrepreneur, a dealer, is on the one hand the one who has to ensure, on the other hand, he is also consumers and consumers, and for him the same rules apply as for everyone in Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Lausch: Not all that limps is a comparison!]] The implementation of these Directives strengthens the right of guarantee in Austria. I would like to say one thing at this point – even if you say the ÖVP speaks for the economy –: Yes, the ÖVP also speaks for the economy, it speaks for the consumers in Austria and it speaks for the economy, since the economy has to survive just after this Corona period – and not just the Corona era. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] It is about competition in Europe, it is about equalizing the directives, ensuring throughout Europe. Two years of guarantees have now become standard in Europe under the EU Directive, and this creates a balanced competition. The possibility that, after the warranty period – which is a very essential point – a defect can be claimed for three months now, please be a renewal that supports consumers, because normally after two years has ended, now it is after two years and three months. In the future, consumers – this is a key element in this innovation – have the right to turn the burden of proof for one year. In other words, one year the consumer does not have to prove that the lack of the digital camera he bought should have been given when buying after seven months of the lens. He does not have to prove to the dealer, the seller has to guarantee that he has to repair it, he has to exchange it, he has to hand over a completely proper product to the consumer. What has not been mentioned by you and what is particularly important for our consumers: We are able to ensure that in the future the solutions to the contract or price reductions no longer need to be applied to the court, but that a simple explanation is sufficient, which shows that one has a problem. The last point, the adaptation to the digital world: With the implementation of these directives, we create for the first time that digital services and goods with digital content are expressly incorporated into the warranty law. So if that's not a big step, I don't know where you - you or colleague Drobits - looked at. The economy recovers, we have presented a very good bill, after this crisis year it is not consciously superfluous gold plating to enable the economy to recover. On the other hand, the many points I have just mentioned give the consumers in Austria much better opportunities to claim their guarantee. In this sense, I ask the FPÖ and the SPÖ to think again whether they cannot give their consent to this law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e32337	Mrs Scharzenberger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e32359	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear listeners! The Enforcement Directive Act is about two EU directives that need to be transposed into a national law. This will improve the overall level of consumer protection. My previous speakers have already discussed the content in detail, especially now my colleague Michaela Steinacker. It is important to stress that this draft is an appropriate solution in the balance between consumer protection and business planning. Mr Lausch von der FPÖ, Mr Drobits von der SPÖ, you have referred to this, so it is a good balance between consumer protection on the one hand and planning for entrepreneurs on the other. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] For the accusation that the warranty period is too short and that this cannot be in the sense of sustainability, it must already be said that large corporations have enough financial resources to adapt to the national rules of each country, smaller companies do not have that. It cannot be useful to implement directives alone to support these large corporations. The purchase of the Internet is becoming increasingly important, but this also means that buyers and sellers have less and less contact and are partly also sitting in different countries. Although this is practical for the consumer, it can become difficult when claims for performance are made. To that end, the present draft should be welcomed. Finally, I would like to remind you that a strong European internal market in the future means a strong Austrian market. Especially for an export nation such as Austria, it is simply important to buy our Austrian products as easily as possible, especially in the EU. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] Especially with regard to the progressive digitization, the new law takes an important step by including mandatory free software updates for smart goods and re-regulations in the payment of data. The implementing rules shall apply from the beginning of 2022. The EU is the largest single market in the world and we must use this potential for our economy, for our companies and for our jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e32408	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, we shall put the vote back to the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Justice. [[22:1611]] 30. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (950 d.a._Other Organiser Federal Act establishing a federal law on the restructuring of companies to implement the Directive on restructuring and insolvency, as well as the insolvency regulations, the Law on Court Fees, the Law on Jurisdiction, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Jurisdiction and the Rules of Procedure (RIRUG) (981 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e32443	We'll be at the end of the 30s. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Fischer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e32471	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We all don't want debt, companies don't want debt, private don't want debt. What is this law about? – In short: It is about finding measures that companies and private individuals can quickly get away from debt. What has now been successful is that private companies can pay off in the same way as companies in three years. This, of course, brings great benefits. We have the situation over and over again that a wife guarantees a husband and is the other entrepreneur. The entrepreneur is owed within three years, the husband/married has been in debt for five years. To ensure that there is a similarity – the directive provides for an obligation for entrepreneurs, we have also regulated it for consumers – there is now a uniform decommissioning within three years. I think that's a very good measure, because it's important to give people a chance, especially in Corona times. Everyone deserves a second chance, so there are also restructuring measures for entrepreneurs, i.e. one considers before insolvency how the company can get back on track. Yes, for some it is not important, but I think it is very good for our economy that companies will not be destroyed and that we see that our companies will not become insolvent. I think this is a very serious issue and it is about the perspective of equal debt. The three years for companies and for private individuals are very important in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e32504	Mrs Becher is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e32525	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The implementation of this EU Directive, like so many of these days, is under the impression of the Corona crisis. The aim is to save businesses from financial difficulties, to save them from bankruptcy. It is not a specific Austrian idea to do this, but Austria is especially benefiting from this law. Finally, Austria's economy is measured to the extent not so well through the crisis as 37 billion euros in aid and 9 percent budget deficits are compared with an unemployment rate of 10 percent and an economic decline of 6.6 percent. In other words, many farms are in front of the finish. This concerns to the greater extent individual entrepreneurs who do not usually have the necessary reserves to survive the crisis well. There have been some 16 300 insolvencys in the last two years, and there are still home-made problems by the Federal Government. I only remember the rents: During the crisis, it has been tasty not to pay, later to pay. This has been extended by surprise, and of course the people who have come into the hustle and bustle through failing rents could not pay at 4 percent interest they still had to pay for it. In the meantime, the landlords were also annoyed, as their revenue was not constantly bubbling. Now, far too late, there is the aid fund, this declaration prevention, but we do not yet know anything specific about it. You see, the Federal Government is too little, and that's too late. The measures we need will only be presented and decided under pressure from the EU. The current provisions of the levy procedure are supplemented by five years' duration. Now it should be possible to be debt-free after three years. There are about 2 000 tax procedures each year with a duration of five years. In the future, it is expected that there will be 25 percent of cases, i.e. 500 procedures, with a duration of three years. This scheme applies to businesses and individuals. However, it would not be the turquoise-green federal government if you were no longer at the heart of the companies than the working population. The possibility is therefore intended for private individuals on 16 May. ==References====External links== We as SPÖ have strongly criticized this because the working population is no less valuable than businesses and self-employed people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The main concern of politics must be just after the Corona crisis to enable people who are particularly affected to return to a carefree life, a life without fear of being constantly in front of the door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e32580	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, I can give him the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e32601	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I hope that after the previous speaker I will achieve a slight brightening of the mood. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] I can tell you that it was certainly not the case that we were under pressure, but we have worked very solidly on an EU directive. We already had such a law, the company reorganisation law, but it wasn't a big burner. I think we only had about 50 cases a year, and now we have harmonised it across the EU. We have now made sure that there is a pre-insolvency procedure across the EU. If insolvency is foreseeable, then there are possibilities to put the company under protection. It is not as intense as it is in America in the Chapter 11 process, but it is nevertheless possible to cut demands already in this situation. The aim is simply to avoid liquidations. I can quote a few points: It is a restructuring procedure only for entrepreneurs. It is necessary to submit a restructuring plan with a duration. There is the classification of creditors into creditor classes, and the majority of creditors in the respective classes must agree by head and sum of money. All restructuring measures, including the sale of the entire company, are possible. There is a six-month arrest and the company remains in its own administration, but an agent is put to the side. It is true that we have provided for the possibility of a shorter levy procedure of three years. I believe that it is right for entrepreneurs to do so, because there are those fair entrepreneurs, ladies and gentlemen, who also get into economic distress undecided. That's a fact, that's it. They should be helped, and they should not be run and pulled down with the lump of the debt for any re-start, ladies and gentlemen, forever and for three days. We need to give them this opportunity. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the directive has provided for this reduction only for entrepreneurs. The extension to consumers, referring to Covid-19, has been temporary for five years. The crocodiles of the Social Democrats about the coalition's decision on this matter may be a bit caught and dried on the basis of the facts given. We have carried out this three-year evaluation for a very simple reason, ladies and gentlemen: In politics, there is a slight tendency for debt to be destroyed with a dash. However, debt arose sometime and there is not only the debtor, no, there is also the creditor. Now, of course, as a Social Democratic Chancellor has said, the banks will have to make their contribution! – say that the bad banks are the ones that the creditors are, and these belong to them all the time cut short. I'm just saying: They will consider how they will continue lending, and there will also be much more suffering for private individuals than for businesses. Ladies and gentlemen! But they are not just banks, they are craftsmen, small craftsmen who have provided services, they are dealers who have sold which due to this rapid debt by spring have a loss of revenue. I warn you, ladies and gentlemen, that we're always just thinking about the debtor. Of course, we're just thinking about the fair debtor, but I'm telling you, there's not only this one. We have now created a rage about banking regulations, think of the Basel guidelines, think of very great laws that we have made here, such as the amendment of the Consumer Credit Act and the Mortgage and Real Estate Credit Act – which is unfailingly stated – and if we take all these rules together, it is already no longer possible for an over 50-year-old to lend a loan for a mortgage, but of course we have to decide here. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Low]] Banks that are no longer allowed to deposit the individual land will no longer be credited to private individuals if their debts are cancelled with a dash after three years. We can try this law, ladies and gentlemen, but I will not stop remembering that on the other side of the rainbow – if we have been able to remain pictorial – there are those who have previously borrowed the money or provided the service. We also have to think about that. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e32672	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e32694	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! When I opened my law firm 34 years ago, we still had the bankruptcy order, we still had the compensation order, and I have handled some companies in these decades, at that time still as a so-called mass administrator. There is simply the heavy weight always to satisfy the creditors as much as possible, to crush the company, to silverize the existing facts, so that the creditors then get a quota of what I know, 0.5, 2, 3 percent, more was it not. The compensation, it was a little towards renovation. There is a need to achieve a minimum rate of 20 percent for the compulsory compensation. This has, of course, often failed with privileged creditors. The situation has changed. We have really experienced a cultural change, probably also through EU accession, and this element of entrepreneurship has been eroded. That was a blamage before, you couldn't see yourself so right if you were a bankruptcy. 20 years ago, the bankruptcy order and also the compensation system were replaced by the insolvency order, and there were, for the first time, approaches to the fact that it is really stupid to break up companies that actually work well, but because of an unpredictable factor that cannot be blamed on the entrepreneur, they have come into financial difficulties. This EU directive, which we are today integrating into the new insolvency rules with this legislative decision and to which we are also putting into force a restructuring regulation, is now taking one step further. That's quite the way it is. It is also very welcome, from the point of view of Mr Fürlinger, that, of course, in all these decisions, we always have to think of the other side, of the creditors who look through their fingers. However, experience shows – and this is evidenced by figures, which is evidence-based – that even creditors are better cut off if companies are not immediately broken down because holding an external factor has prevented an entrepreneurial success. It doesn't always have to do with the fact that an entrepreneur worked sloppy. In this way we welcome this package of legislation, but we already believe that much more would have been possible. It would have been very welcome, especially in the restructuring regulation, if it would be possible to initiate restructuring even before the inability to pay. It would have been very welcome to reduce the quota for restructuring instead of 75 percent to 50 percent. In this respect, I would also like to make the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to make another amendment, which, after the review procedure, has resulted in an amendment which we have only received in committee. These are legal remedies. In the existing insolvency order, it is provided that, even if they are collected by creditors' associations, there is a legal obligation. This has suddenly been changed for reasons which I could not understand, so that only a revisional review, that is, only one appeal in the third instance, would be required. I also do not think that is appropriate, because it shows that it is particularly favourable in these matters and that the quality of the decisions is good, even if the appeals of lawyers, say of lawyers, are written. I therefore propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[22:33]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e32891	The amendments are sufficiently supported, properly submitted and are therefore under negotiation. Mrs Zadić has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e32915	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! The Corona crisis, of course, also has its economic challenges to say it euphemistically now, and every crisis, every crisis, every crisis, also requires a good insolvency right. It is also a matter of creating opportunities for companies in difficulty to be quickly rehabilitated. And if that doesn't work out, they should be quickly closed. That is why this legislative project is a second opportunity, because it is also about restructuring, to facilitate the restructuring of companies that are just ahead of insolvency. This is possible now, and without the consent of all creditors, it is possible to reorganise the company. It requires a restructuring plan and it can lead to a reduction in demands and support. Yes, this will not be the case for all companies, because there will be companies that simply and decisively will not create it. Even there are some reliefs, because if a business life, an entrepreneur or an entrepreneur has really failed, he or she can pay off within three years and thus restart with this second chance. In addition, it was a major concern for me to shorten this time limit for private debtors, because private individuals can also be fair and indebted in a debt over-indebtedness. The corona crisis has shown the effects: Many private individuals were in the corner because they became unemployed because there were loss of income, short-time work and much more. It is therefore expected that there will be private insolvency, and I am very glad that, as the Federal Government, we have decided that there will also be a reduction in the time limit for private debt, and that we can therefore also dispel the consequences of the pandemic from social policy. Ladies and gentlemen, we are creating a restart, not only for companies, but also for private ones. I hope you will agree to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e32961	Mrs Götze is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e32982	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! Every company and every one of us, as we have already heard, can become indebted. In the Corona crisis, we managed to stop the insolvency last year with the help measures. But some will come. There are other reasons, however, such as changes in the business environment, which are not always predictable, as well as private fates such as illness or other family crises. Insolvency is part of entrepreneurship. In the U.S. it's even like this: If anyone has never failed, he or she is not considered to be a serious entrepreneur, a serious entrepreneur to take. This has not yet been achieved with us; as has already been said, then a certain flaw is attached to the people to whom this happens. But failure is part of it, and we already say to the children: You should learn from mistakes. So it's okay to make mistakes. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We need companies that take a certain degree of risk to be willing to set up a company even in difficult times. And if these companies, who dared to jump into self-employment, had to pay off for five years in case of failure as before, this is simply a very long period of time. We therefore welcome the EU directive, which provides for a three-year reduction in time. In these three years, a judicial restructuring procedure is envisaged. It is also planned that the majority of creditors should agree, so that individual creditors cannot prevent a restructuring procedure, as was the case so far. It is also very welcome that the three-year repayment period should now also apply to private individuals, because from our point of view it is fair and, especially in these times, very many private countries can also be truly, without debt in these situations. In addition, from an entrepreneurial point of view, the separation between professional, entrepreneurship and private debt is not always so clear for small and micro-enterprises. This restructuring makes it possible – and I believe that is the good news – to secure jobs if companies can survive. That is the objective of this restructuring. The companies get a second chance. They receive jobs and they can also repay a good part of their debts. In the best case, the company remains really long-term. ==References== In June this will enter into force, and I believe it will help us to achieve this culture of the second chance. Other countries are already so commonplace to establish with us. That is urgently needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e33036	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. [[22:40:55]] Vote on agenda items 27 to 30
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e33061	We come to the votes. I can ask the clubs if they're already ready: SPÖ? Green? NEOS? FPÖ? ÖVP? Thank you. Agenda item 27: Draft antitrust and competition legislation 2021 in 976 of the Supplements. Mr Steinacker, Mr Götze, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an additional proposal. That is why we are voting first on the supplementary proposal and finally on the draft law. Mr Steinacker, Mr Götze, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new point 40a into Article 1. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted. We shall come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever approves the draft at third reading, I ask for a sign. – This is the same voice behaviour. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Vote on agenda item 28: Draft law on road vehicle procurement, including title and entry into 941 of the Supplements. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent at third reading will do so with a sign of approval. – That is, in turn, the majority, accepted. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bayr, colleagues, on ‘a supply chain law for a social human rights-compliant and sustainable way of production’. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 29: Draft Enforcement Directive Act including title and receipt in 949 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I am looking for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, accepted. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever is in third reading for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the same voice behaviour. The draft law is therefore also adopted by a majority in third reading. Agenda item 30: Draft Restructuring and Insolvency Directive Implementation Act in 981 of the Supplements. To this end, Members of Parliament have tabled two amendments. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the proposed amendments, following the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment relating to the type. 1 § 45. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for the members of the House who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We come to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Margreiter, colleagues, on the abolition of this kind. 2 Z 10. Whoever is for this, I can ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall come to the vote on the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, I may ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever is in third reading for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is a changed vote, but still it is the majority. The draft law was also adopted by a majority in third reading. The agenda is exhausted. Some of them, too. [[22:44:42]] Short debate on a request to extend Ibiza-UsA
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e33222	We are now entering the brief debate on the request for a minority of members to be set up in accordance with § 53 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Examining Committees on Renewal of the Investigation Committee on ‘Probable Sales of the Turkish-Blue Federal Government (Ibiza Investigation Committee)’ by three months. We can go into the debate. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 GOG-NR is the speaking time in this debate for 5 minutes, with 10 minutes at the disposal of the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government? - There's no one there. I call Mrs Kucharovich. She's got 10 minutes to reason. - Please. The word stands with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e33258	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear spectators, if anyone else is there via live stream! We have a very hot, long and up-to-date session behind us. It was really exciting already in the morning and in the morning. It was very, very loud and partly very, very aggressive in the debates and, above all, through the calls for interim work. I think we should think about what kind of picture we are conveying outside. You rightly, Mr President, at the time, in the morning, you already acknowledged the dignity of the House. You have done this quite rightly, and I would like to appeal to all of us about the dignity of the House. You know, an investigative committee is the strongest control instrument in a Parliament. He is a very important part of democracy, a building block of democracy. I think many of us were very proud when the setting up of an investigation committee became minority law a few years ago. Many of the colleagues present today were also very impressive when this happened. Openly said: It is all the more dramatic that this pride and this tone has been thrown and forgotten completely overboard in the last one and a half years, increased in recent months. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] A year and a half ago, in December 2019, we, the Social Democracy, and NEOS introduced a request for the setting up of the Investigation Committee on the suspected purchaseability of the turquoise-blue Federal Government, in short the Ibiza Investigation Committee. From the very beginning, ladies and gentlemen, this Committee of Inquiry has been subjected to inconceivable attacks and has faced attacks that have been completely new to me and fellow Members who have already experienced other committees of inquiry. Let us remember the start, namely the attempted collapse of our desire from the government groups, because perhaps the text did not fit completely, the content should not have been examined so to speak! It didn't help anything. The investigative committee was able to start. But what did we expect? – delays, delays, delays, clear periods of time from the ÖVP, the ÖVP Chancellor and the OVP Minister Blümel. How, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, is this compatible with the dignity of the House? – Not at all, just not at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Proposes of time for the ÖVP: I would like to draw from the last one and a half years two examples which were quite, quite decisive. First: Paper deliveries. We have fought from the beginning to get files – keywords: Chats, contacts, e-mails, appointments and much more – which would be very easy for the Committee. We have fought for the German Chancellor's files, we have fought for files of the Finance Minister Blümel. Over a year we then disputed de facto about the Constitutional Court with German Chancellors Kurz and Federal Minister Blümel so that we could get any files and documents from the ministry at all. It has been claimed that there is simply none. Even when the Constitutional Court of Justice has committed Finance Minister Blümel to deliver, he has still refused. By the way, the Constitutional Court had to become active six times. It then went so far, ladies and gentlemen, that Federal President Van der Bellen made himself strong in the sense of democracy and in the sense of Parliament, and was then really standing at the door of the Minister of Finance. Then Blümel began to deliver files he still classified as a secret, which was absolutely incorrect, wrong. Federal Chancellor Kurz, with leave, is not much better either. He also claimed at the outset that there was nothing, there were no files and documents. Then he started because he probably wanted to save himself the execution, but to find out some documents. Where is respect for Parliament, for the Committee of Inquiry, for citizens? - We don't see him. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] Mr President, I can now also turn to you. With all due respect, Mr President, you are the chairman of the committee. You have to do everything you can to stop these delays. You should have done everything you could to prevent these delays. As committee chairman and as the President of the National Council, you would have to call for deliveries with all vehemence for a year and a half. We heard and heard nothing about you, Mr Sobotka. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] We urge you once again to play your full role, namely to strengthen the committee of inquiry! This is your job as President of the National Council and Chairman of the Committee. Back to the files: Time has been lost for a year and a half. In March 2020 the Federal Chancellor should have delivered. Since the end of June 2021 – today we have 7th. July – we now have some brief files. Ladies and gentlemen, how to see for yourself by next week, until 15. July, be possible? [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] How should a survey be possible? To date, ladies and gentlemen, there are no complete files of Blümel until today. Today's prospect has been put forward that next week's files will slowly be re-enhanced – next week! [[Abg. Melchior: Not at all! That's not true!]] However, their plan, valued by the ÖVP and valued greens, is to turn this committee off and thus turn it off. - That's unheard of! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] A second example with regard to time is the surveys of the ÖVP: Mr Hanger, a few months ago, the ÖVP apparently discovered Rules of Procedure in the broadest sense, Rules of Procedure in the context of the surveys of persons providing information. [[Call to the ÖVP: But that does the crane...!]] Time and again, there was the situation in the Committee that one ÖVP group started one day after another – mainly men – one debate on the Rules of Procedure after another. [[Abg. Zarits: Colleagues Krainer you mean!]] The goal was clear and clear: To get the questioners and the questioners out of the concept, to create time and simply to play and delay on time. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Ladies and gentlemen, this too is a new style in the political culture that we have not known so far and have now learned through you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Hanger:... Mr. Krainer is here today!]] Mr Hanger, the crowning was quite clear last week. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] There was another charge of the Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Hanger.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Members of the House of Representatives, Kassager and Loacker.]] As a result of the consultation of the ÖVP and above all due to the speech and writing 21 Rules of Procedure of the ÖVP, while Mr Krainer was questioning, the Members Krisper and Tomaselli – and therefore the NEOS and the Greens – had no more Question Time. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] No question could be asked by the Federal Chancellor last week! You should have intervened here too, Mr President. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Bad split!]] I ask you again, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: How is this behaviour compatible with the dignity of the House, with respect for colleagues and for democracy? - Not at all! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the information work is not yet over, file supplies are outstanding, surveys of information are open, surveys have sometimes not taken place, interviews have been delayed and disturbed by the debates on the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: The Enlightenment... was chosen!]] The Constitutional Court was not taken seriously, the Federal President had to act as an executive. - All of this has happened in recent months. Let Parliament's strongest control tool continue to work! Let the Ibiza Committee live! Do not go easily with the control instrument of democracy, do not turn it off – and take, above all, the 44,491 people who have signed the petition for extension seriously, do not put them in the head! Don't push on with democracy and enlightenment! [[Abg. Eßl:... Parliament!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] Today, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and of the Greens, we give you another opportunity to show your respect for the House. Please agree to the extension! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e33479	Mr Fürlinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e33500	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! As with any plenary session, we can again devote ourselves to this issue, with me being somewhat irritated by the change in staff. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] It seems that I am really the only constant in this committee of inquiry. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] I am, however, honestly surprised by the extension request, because the closing party has obviously taken place and one or another is still estranged. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] One or the other should therefore remain away from this meeting. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sir.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: How was that at...?]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what should I say to this wonderful address that we are continuing to devote ourselves to an event that has fallen down to “Gala” and “Bunte” levels and that is developing the private affairs of individual personalities in the political field? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak]] What should I say about this when a group of people has called for respect which started six weeks before the committee of inquiry to cover the President of this House in an incredible way with a campaign, because it is said that Novomatic has been a major subject of Mr Strache? Weeks before this committee started, the President was advocated. Yes, if these main issues were dealt with, that all those who are somehow in a context with one of the main speakers in Straches video are caught, I wonder why a member of the NEOS Group may even sit in such an investigation committee – for at least as prominent as Novomatic was Haselsteiner there. But there were two people inside who, of course, were not caught. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Perfectly past the Court of Auditors, financial grants? Courageous, my colleague, courageous!]] Mrs Klubobfrau, I do not know how far your group would be without Mr Hazelsteiner's 2 million euros. Maybe you wouldn't be quite so many – and that's what you blame us for. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger:... hidden, illegal!]] This campaign has continued, mainly against politicians of the Austrian People's Party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lord]] This was a strategic-tactical master achievement of the unfortunately absent colleague Hafenecker, who has slipped under the axles during the opposition: We can't do that anyway! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] The others thought again: Mr Strache died politically, and Gudenus is no longer here, so let's go to the ÖVP! Then it was started to knit, things have been linked that had nothing to do with each other. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Novomatic and ÖVP for example!]] It has always been at the border between slander, submission and aggressiveness. Mrs Kucharowits, you personally have my respect, I do not mean you, but many from your area have begun to wage a genuine political war, which was and is justified by nothing – because it does not help us, neither you nor us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, there was obviously also a knowledge, according to which the semantic possibilities of the terms could be found to be abstract and relevant for hours. If you only interpret it in German, then the terms are abstract and relevant in fact not interconnectable, they are part and opposite, pode and antipode. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: But the nice thing is that the Constitutional Court...!]] This has led some to their difficulties. If you don't believe it, Mrs. Federal Minister Zadić, who was sitting here, openly stated in the committee that she had real problems with this knowledge – she did not know what to deliver. As a result, their people packed everything together in a blatant manner and poured it out to the committee. This happened under massive violation of personality rights. There have been things delivered that we know today that they have nothing to do with this committee. They are used and also unlawfully handed over to others to emblame these people. We have experienced low points – Mrs Kucharovich, as I am your opinion – but it was not what you mean. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say another: Since you have aged here at the speaker’s desk about the chancellor’s consent – and I suppose that will also be my follow-up speaker’s pleasure – I would like to mention: [[Abg. Scherak: Very much even!]] We've spent as much time as my colleague Krainer. And if we have had discussions with Mr Krainer on the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Kucharovich, then because he still manages to ask questions about a giant potpourri, and we sometimes have to remind him of what the subject matter is. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I can only say one thing: The chancellor, with his consent, actually told everything as it actually was. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Look at me..., I believe they hold... in Austria!]] I can tell you: The corruption so much sought and praised by you did not exist because – I can say it with the chancellor’s words – we are not a firm clumsy!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e33686	Klubobfrau Sigrid Maurer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e33708	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners who follow this show today! I honestly do not know whether it is the second, third or fourth request for extension of the Committee of Inquiry. I think we have made our position clear several times. Do we think the U-committee should be extended? - Yes! Do we think the opposition has all the instruments in hand to set up a new committee? - Yes! Why does she have that? – Because it is a minority right that the Greens have fought in 2014. [[Interim calls at FPÖ and NEOS.]] – Yes, there were other political groups. We have agreed to it together, but it is because we Greens have enforced it in intensive negotiations. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like to say at this point: Mr Kucharovich, it is not a turning-off of the U Committee if an application is not accepted – contrary to earlier, when the majority of requests for deadlines decided very well that a U-committee should be turned off. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ]] By the way, I have looked at it, because it has been said in the room whether Mr Krainer – he is not here today – was at the toilet in these votes to turn off the U-committees in the past. - No, he wasn't! There were also names of votes and, of course, he voted in favour at that time. We have fought the minority right to set up an investigation committee. [[Abg. Martin Graf: You didn't fight anything!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] The opposition has all the possibilities to reintroduce the U-committee. I also assume that this will happen. Then, of course, everything must be delivered. We have an interesting year behind us, because we have many new insights. It has actually been new in many areas, there has been exciting findings from the Constitutional Court. At this point I would also like to reject the assumption that Alma Zadić had committed any data protection violations. It has implemented the knowledge of the Constitutional Court and, of course, it is up to Members in the Committee to preserve data protection. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Much more is not to be said either. I'm excited about what request the opposition fractions made on 22nd October. In September, it will be introduced which U-committee they will use. I think that we have earned a total of a break – that is, as far as the extremely strenuous work in the committee of inquiry is concerned. These are extremely many session days that go from early until often late in the evening, which are physically strenuous because of high tension. At this point also thank you very much, on the one hand, to our Members in this committee, to Nina Tomaselli and David Stögmüller, and on the other hand to all employees in the background. It's a very strenuous work and it's worth thanking for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e33775	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e33797	I would very much like to correct the story at the beginning, as Mrs Maurer has been telling us here for weeks that the Greens had fought the minority right to set up an investigation committee. [[Abg. Martin Graf: They still believe that!]] – They believe that too, Mr. Graf. [[Abg. Martin Graf: They really believe that!]] – They really believe that, yes, and this is very annoying, because I was eaten by NEOS as a neos negotiator at the time. At the time, there were three opposition parties who fought for the Committee of Inquiry to become a minority right. That was the FPÖ – then the negotiator Gernot Darmann – it was Dieter Brosz of the Greens and of the NEOS it was me. We have fought this to third, with quite a lot – with hundreds of thousands – people who then called on the Hypo-Research Committee to have the investigation committee finally become a minority right. It may be that one or the other has more contributed to this. If the greens blamed it for themselves, I'd be careful, because if it's gotten by the greens, it was Peter Pilz. To be proud of him afterwards would have to be superior. In any case, we have implemented it together. [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] If you think it was the Greens, then I must tell you, you have taken a very long time, obviously until we came to Parliament as NEOS. Maybe it was also the trigger that it worked. In any case, it was not the Greens alone, but three opposition parties in common. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] According to what Mr Fürlinger said, the question is how long the Greens' faithfulness to the coalition partner still lasts, and how long the Greens are still taking this trust, because one has to ask what happens every time something new comes – Mrs Kucharovich has done it very impressively: from the importance of the investigation committee to the delaying tactics of the ÖVP – and when it is enough. If a Federal Chancellor comes to an investigative committee and answers questions so long and expeditiously that individual political groups no longer have the opportunity to ask questions at all, then from my point of view, it is so that a party that advocates living parliamentaryism, a party that once stood up for parliamentary control, should actually say: Now it's over until here and not on! [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] You have already accepted this, since you have been in coalition with the EIA: this lack of respect for the EIA to the Parliament, to the institutions. You accept that the Federal Chancellor believes that our constitution is a legal brilliance. They accept the Federal Chancellor's disinterest in parliamentary debates when he again talks and does anything with the mobile phone. They accept the memory gaps of ministers in the U-committee, the decommissioning care, and, and, and. I could continue this forever. The problem is just: When is it finally enough for the greens? – What happened in the Committee of Inquiry last week is a new dimension: The fact that a German chancellor abuses his right and his obligation to provide information and speaks so long that individual political groups – and in particular your group – do not have the opportunity to ask questions is a low point of parliamentaryism. And something I find absurd is that the greens there make the wall of the ÖVP. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] If the question is asked by the ÖVP: Mr Bundeskanzler, in addition to all that we are investigating in the Committee of Inquiry, what was so great about the government of Kurz I?, then it is obvious that this has nothing to do with the subject matter of investigation. And if the President of the National Council, as chairman of the Committee of Inquiry – Mr President, otherwise you will not be squeaky about what questions are allowed – then say: Of course, the question is allowed, the Federal Chancellor may carry out and tell us how great he is not!, then this is a low point in the history of Parliament, a contempt of Parliament; and then the Greens of the ÖVP make the wall again. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] What could you do? – You can do two things so that something like that doesn't happen again. [[Abg. Gödl:... “Oasch”-sager by the woman Krisper!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – Yes, Mr Gödl, I do not know how you see this with parliamentary control, it does not seem to be so important to you. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Gödl]] I believe that we could do two things, namely number one, finally make investigation committees public, as the citizens have the right to experience how the Federal Chancellor mocks Parliament and, secondly, extend this investigation committee. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Admissibility with NEOS, SPÖ and FPÖ]] [[Uh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] You now have the opportunity to do so. You can talk out again: Yes, the Greens have done something to ensure that minority law is in place for the minority in Parliament. But it's about where you're moving your border, and the border should actually be where your coalition partner takes you the right to ask your questions. If you do not draw this limit, you must explain it to yourself and above all to your voters.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e33927	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e33948	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that according to the results of this Committee of Inquiry and the questionable behaviour and occurrence of some ÖVP-nearly informed persons there – in order to express it above all – there is a lot of distraction need. I'd say, Ton of distraction needs. If only one thinks of Finance Minister Blümel – alone this document delivery drama – who left nothing untry to deliver the files only when no longer time remains for the members of the investigative committee to look at the files and question them, or to the hourly irrelevant – let us say – plauder of the Federal Chancellor in his last interview to eliminate the questioning right of all political groups. – All of this would be enough topic and justification for an extended U-committee. The ball lies with the greens, the alleged clean and control party. We all know that's not so, so it's not surprising that you're making the ODP the wall. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But that the ÖVP is so nervous and needs such distraction that it uses the positive corona test of a liberal Member in such a common way as you did, I would not have thought possible. [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is a low point, Mr Fürlinger, you first spoke of. The word was here all day, how unolidarian he was not, what a danger he was or that the FPÖ was a party of danger. – Yes, you can really hit your hands together to talk about that! He had been tested three times a week, he had a negative test from the eve of the meeting of the investigative committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince]] When he experienced the positive result, he called all the people with whom he had closer contact. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I didn't know that the Parliamentary Directorate was in charge on Sunday – he immediately reported on Monday. It's nothing to blame him! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] No other party has used the corona traps in their ranks as you have now done at the FPÖ. [[towards ÖVP]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is really a low point, Mr Fürlinger. But the bill doesn't always go up. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Michael Hammer and Mr Hanger.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign again.]] In that case, levelless accusations often become like a boomerang about those who express them. Mr Hanger, I am speaking to you right now because you have made so many calls. Mr Krawallhanger, I know you are under pressure to finally deliver successes, that is clear to me. By the way, I do not forget that because you have not only turned him through the meat wolf for two days, but because this is of course very stressful for his family and for his children. [[Abg. Hanger: Why didn't he just say it? What's so hard?]] That says a lot! [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They themselves sit in the glass house, at the Heurigen, where obviously the final party of the coalition parties took place – which I do not care about – but without a mask, without any distance, without a complete 3G. [[Abg. Hanger: 3G rule! You understand...?]] That is clear, that applies only to the population and to the FPÖ! – [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] This is the boomerang for the ÖVP. The boomerang for the greens is just as violent. [[Call at the ÖVP:... victim role!]] – I am not a victim at all! I was informed yesterday by the health authorities - - – Mr President, can you make sure that I can speak? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Ready time!]] Here's a lot of crab. – I was informed yesterday by the health authorities that I was a contact person of a green club, due to a meeting on Thursday, the 1. July. I think that's very interesting, because I wasn't in the U committee. I talked to some people after the end of the U-committee, which is still permitted, with the permission of the ÖVP – perhaps with the permission of the ÖVP. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] But I know exactly who I didn't talk to, not a single second: with a green employee! No second! I'm not blaming her either, it's not an accusation, I don't think that was her idea. – Clubobfrau Maurer, maybe you should ask how it came about that I was called a contact person. This is really a political last-class engagement, a struggle at a purely personal level and no material debate. And it's a boomerang, as the green employee explained on Thursday, the 1. July, as highly contagious. Where is the information to the Parliamentary Directorate? Where's the information to all the clubs? I didn't get it. Please, what kind of CT value did she have? Only once again for information: If Mr Hafenecker were a nurse, he would have had to work all the time, because with his CT value he is considered non-infectious. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] That means he could even have cared for the sick, the pedigree, the dying. These are the values set by the government parties by the Minister of Health. [[Call:Ready time! Speech time]] I suppose you are so responsible – because you protect everyone – that you let go of anyone who is infectious. [[towards ÖVP]] So something's wrong. [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] Mr. Hanger, perhaps think first, perhaps -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e34153	Your speaking time has been greatly exceeded by the honourable Member. I can ask you for the final sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e34168	- with your own party, with your coalition partner and stand as an extended investigation committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e34202	Mrs Yılmaz is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. [[Calls and calls between ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Prince speaks to Abg. Michael Hammer.]] Please calm down, we only have one more speech. [[Subsequent calls and calls between ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Prince goes in the direction of her place.]] [[Calls and appeals between Mr Prince and Mr Hanger.]] It'll go a little bit quieter, too. Please, you can discuss this later. Would you like me to interrupt the sitting until the moods have calmed down? [[Call:This is an absolute naughtiness that Members here... are being attacked in such a way! What is it that male Members here attack women like this?! This is the ÖVP.]] [[Subsequent calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I urge Members to uphold the dignity of the House and to wait for the last speech. Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e34272	Mrs. Prince, have you been attacked? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Touched!]] [[Further calls at FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I want to know this from you and not from - - – don't cry out constantly, that's not there! [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] To calm England leads 2 : 1 through an 11 meter. [[towards ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Sit down! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Oh, God! Why are we holding this debate? . It was worked intensively in this committee for over a year, many hours, a lot of energy put in it, read for hours, and despite all the delaying tactics, especially by debates on the Rules of Procedure, by the failure to come or the delayed coming of persons, by the committee leadership by Mr President, the self-renewable-in-word cases, by submissions, by the non-admission of questions, despite all of which so many Members have put their blood in and worked there. And they want to continue because there are still files that have not been deliberately delivered! I remember a speech by me in the spring, in which I complained that the Minister of Finance did not deliver the files. At the end of the meeting, Mr President said to me – with four eyes – that he was until 26. April has time. - Aha, okay! And did he deliver them? - He didn't deliver them! What do you want to prevent? Where is that supposed to lead? [[Abg. Hanger: He delivered everything!]] Have you answered all the questions asked by my colleague Kucharovich? [[Call: Nothing answered him]] Nothing he answered, nothing at all! Do you say why do you want - - – Mr Hanger, what has happened to you? [[Abg. Hanger: You weren't there, were you?]] [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Bravorufe.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hanger.]] Really! People out there ask me: Tell me, what about the hanger? I say, No, I didn't get to know him like that, he's in Parliament for as long as I am, but he's - - no, but stop! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] [[Abg. Hanger:... say what you want!]] I say to you that since I was in Parliament, I have been involved in three committees of inquiry – who are you? –, but we really haven’t had that kind of thing yet. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Yes, then go into the same place in autumn!]] [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS]] [[Bravoruf at SPÖ]] Then go back into the third in autumn – that's the level! We don't want to let that happen. My colleague asked for this respect. [[towards Abg. Showing Kucharovich]] Go into the next – very funny! [[Call:Yes, go in! Then there are four.]] Look, colleagues from the Greens! It's all going to be scrambled now. I know you've got an erotic relationship to shreddering, yes, but what's wrong with you? [[towards ÖVP]] [[towards Greens]] [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of SPÖ and the Agg. Meinl-Risinger.]] [[Intervocations with ÖVP and Greens.]] All of this will now be thrown away, and in autumn all this will be delivered again and we will sit back – is parliamentarianism? [[Call: Nothing's going to be scrambled]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I don't want that in my biography, you prevented the continuation, and one - - - no, please, you can't argue either: [[towards Greens]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Otherwise the FPÖ will come, because it's already here. [[Abg. Maurer: No! You voted for the deadline yourself!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] - No, no. [[Abg. Maurer: But, you have voted for the deadline yourself!]] - No, I don't have anything! [[Abg. Disoski: Yes!]] [[Abg. Maurer: Yes, you did!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] You prevent the extension of the investigation committee, so it looks like! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] And that's what you've got in your biography, don't tell me -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e34587	We shall come to the vote. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request for a sign of approval. – That's the minority. The application is rejected. [[23:20:10]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00115_d8e34621	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications for 1783/A(E) to 1814/A(E). The next meeting of the National Council - - – I would really ask that the necessary concentration be increased for 2 minutes. [[Unrest in the hall.]] – I call for the next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations to be held at 23.20 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
