tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0001par0001	Dear MPs, I am opening the 44th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. Before we go on the agenda, I'd like to speak one more time in front of you as a matter of importance and timing. Members of parliament, tomorrow's National Assembly of France will vote on the proposal of law to punish those who have previously described the events of 1915 as genocide and who have claimed otherwise. Those who have provoked unwanted events for both sides, in the past, in the interest of peace among our Armenian citizens, are today only bringing up a historical problem in domestic politics by bringing up the issue with a vote account and a humbling approach. It's not about politicians, it's about historians. We've said it over and over again. On several occasions, we have expressed our sensitivity to the possible consequences of tomorrow's vote in the National Assembly of France. I sent a letter to the president of the National Assembly of France. A delegation of members of the Turkish Parliament's Foreign Affairs Commission and representatives of NGOs tell French public opinion and politicians of the permanent damage the issue will lead to in two countries' relations. Yesterday's merger was held by the President once again by the General Assembly for the necessary warning of our Assembly, and I agree, and today I accept the same warning as a historic duty. Even the fact that the proposal was brought up ahead of the election shows how some French politicians in their own rights approached the issue. It is the duty of MPs and parliaments to serve the peace of the country and the world. Politicians need votes, but discreet politicians must avoid decisions that will mortgage the future of their country and citizens. Accepting the offer will cause major damage to Turkey-Franse relations, irreparable, irreparable levels. I hope tomorrow's vote will bring common sense and prevent French politicians who oppose Turkey's membership in the European Union at every turn from making a lasting mistake among citizens of both countries. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we now move on to the agenda. According to the programme, we will begin the final talks on the Central Management Budget Bill of 2012 and the Central Management Computing Law of 2010. The commission and the government are in place. Members of parliament, according to the decision made by the General Assembly's 6/12/2011 Article 29/2011, it has been agreed that at the end of the budget talks, the commitment to groups and the government for one hour -- this period can be used by multiple speakers -- should be ten minutes -- according to Article 86 of the Civil Charter and the personal talks against it. I now present to you the names of the members of the group and its members: On behalf of the National Movement Party Group: Mr. Münir Kutluata, MP of Mersin and Deputy Director of the Group Mehmet Şan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group: İstanbul MP and Group Deputy Chairman Akif Hamzacebi, Tekirdağ MP Mr. Faik Öztrak. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group: Diyarbakır MP Nursel Aydoğan and Iğdır MP and Group Deputy President Pervin Buldan. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Giresun MP and Deputy Director Nurettin Canikli. On behalf of his people: Lehinde, İzmir MP Mehmet Saim Tekelioğlu; on behalf of Yalova MP Muharrem İnce. The first word now goes to Mr. Münir Kutluata, the Sakarya MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Kutluata. Your time is half an hour, Mr. Kutluata.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0002par0027	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'm here to announce the views of the National Movement Party in the final talks on the 2012 budget. Dear lawmakers, budgets are as important as showing the state of the country's economy in their year, where previous practices have led the country. In these talks, we discuss not only the state of this budget, but also the state of the country's economy. So at the beginning of my words, I would like to draw your attention to the core of the matter. The Justice and Development Party, which had been in power for more than nine years, ruled 10.5 per cent of our 88%-year-old republic's history. This is a power that has been run for a long time with a large majority of Parliaments on its own. At the end of this period, if we actually state where Turkey is, we have a good chance to reveal the nine-year assessment and what is expected of future budgets. At the end of this period, we have clear numbers of 2010, and by the end of 2002 and 2010, economic development in Turkey is a clear 31 per cent increase in national income per capita. So during this period, $4,225 per person was raised by the power to $5,570 per million. This is information from the government planning agency's sources at the Ministry of Development, page 16 of the 2012 programme. If the previous rulings had performed like the AKP, if Turkey had made 31 per cent progress every eight years, the point of personal enrichment and permutation in this period of time would have been based on the income of $45 per million in 1923, the AKP's Power would have taken over only a national income level of $530 per person in 2002. It's just...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0003par0030	Mr. Kutluata, a moment of your time. Dear lawmakers, budget negotiations hold an important place in our Parliamentary culture. Our MPs, who have a personal request, please sit in their seats and do not engage our fellow ministers... must all avoid the issues that will prevent the noise and understanding of what is being said. Let's take these talks with respect to each other's law and their words. Here you go, Mr. Kutluata.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0004par0033	The Justice and Development Party would have taken over a $535 Turkey, not $4,225 real income per person. So we're saying that their previous performances are both high and that this period is not well evaluated. If you take into account this period of power, the depression of 1929, the Second World War, the revolutions, despite all absences, Turkey's economy has made much faster progress. On the other hand, when you look at other indicators, you see the same thing: you see that we are in the 92nd place in the individual development index, and you're in the 126th place in terms of your twenty-five-year-old population's education, which has passed nine years during this period of power. So when we look at Turkey's general indicators, as it is said today, we see that it is not a painting as the authorities say it is, but as these actual paintings appear, we face a defence of basic indicators. It is said that no matter what reason you give, no matter what reality you put in front of us, Turkey's basic indicators are solid. In that regard, I want to tell you where these basic indicators are sitting and how reliable they are. These indicators, called sound, are such as growth rate, employment rate, inflation rate, budget equivalency, savings rate and the structure and direction of debt. Now, you see that all of these indicators are based on a very large current deficit, and you know, if you look at it, you'll suddenly see how the indicators in the middle have changed to you today or yesterday, just like today. Today, as he said yesterday, power cannot express its trust in these indicators. The first is the growth rate. When we say growth, the three dimensions need to be observed together. One of them is already consumption, and it's starting to grow. When there's consumption, there's a need for investment, there's a need to increase production. When you don't increase consumption and invest, when you don't increase production, consumption is consumption by producing other countries. So, you have growth, no production growth. The third improvement and improvement: the difference between imports and exports increases in the interest of exports. If you do not produce it for yourselves, your exports will be reduced, and the imports will increase, and the greatness here will be against you. In that sense, this kind of growth is called deficient growth, and it is known to everyone that this is what happened in Turkey. In short, the thing that's always expressed is that the economy is run by import, imported by someone else's money, and the consumers who don't have money are being loaned to this import. So we're dealing with imports, debt-related consumption, and a tax-paying government. That's the bottom line of the economy's wheels. I'd like to give you an important example: this structure is taking us to an increasingly inefficient foreign trade structure. This structure is taking us to a constantly degraded production structure, structural degradation in production. At the end of this process, inefficient exports emerge. To give you an example, in 2002, we see that the share of high-tech products -- 4.7% of our exports -- has fallen to 2.2, and 1.9 in 2011. So we're always dealing with an external trade structure that works against us, an export structure that's always low in added value. Another point, valued lawmakers, is the subject of employment. The fact that employment appears to be increasing with annual fluctuating growth figures may change the image of employment on figures in Turkey, but it does not improve the quality of employment. The quality of employment is increasing, that the people involved are satisfied with their jobs and that they can guarantee their jobs. When we look at it from this point of view, it's a job that looks like it's going to be a stream of employment, and the quality of employment from one year to the next is constantly deteriorating. We saw the most important example in the 2008-2009 crisis: 1,300,000 of our people were unemployed, 870,000 of them joined the unemployed army from the countertop, from the industrial production structure. In the years after that, the number of jobs that we called employment was in the construction industry, in the service sector, mostly in the agriculture sector. Thus, these are signs of a breakdown of quality in employment, and improvement in numbers does not solve the issue. I'd like to give another example of this: In 2009-2010, during the resistance of the Tekel workers in Ankara, all of what was done to the monopoly workers, aside from the fact that there were more serious statements than these. It was said to the workers: "There are many people out there who want to work for much less than what you don't agree with; for you are no match for them. This is the corruption of the quality of employment. As a happy and respected member of the community, we think that instead of getting the constitutional right to work, we should be willing to work with enough income to live on; we think that this issue should be focused on any political debate. If a young person who has taken a job is able to say, "I have a job. " If he can keep his house and maintain order and look to the future with confidence, then unemployment is falling, and the government is right. No, as far as his job is concerned, if he's in need of income, if it's only a matter of time before he's laid off, then I think he should listen to what we're saying. This is correct. One of the indicators is that the issue of inflation is valued lawmakers. I'd like to come up with three points in very brief terms about inflation. One of them was that the inflation rates in Turkey have never been achieved as the government declared and predicted, under the rule of this government, when inflation was called low. Over 100 years, there have been over 100 per cent miscalculations and inflation, as in the high inflation period, the psychology of inflation has been applied against narrow-income people. There has been an inflation process against everyone, including the small businesses that can make a raise, who can dictate prices, who can put a raise on real inflation rates, whose demand power is weak, who are anxious to put a price on their product. Another point, presented as a falling success in inflation, has been ignored as an improvement in cheap imports, which has been offered with low foreign currency, and has been tried to be proud. Now, when inflation revolts, we've dealt with the inflation monster. The knight's attitude, which has been displayed in his style, is about to revisit inflation. We see that he's being tried to confess again with some unpleasant expressions from the same terminology. So it's very important where inflation comes from. The power must not miss it. Inflation comes from cost-effective production structure and insufficient production structure. You need to know that without correcting these, the falling inflation didn't fall out of your hands, that whatever reason it fell out of, it's going to go up again. Another point, the third thing that needs to be said about inflation, is that the Central Bank says inflation is the biggest problem. The government says that inflation is becoming a serious danger. Business circles are already aware of the work. He's been having this trouble since he was told he was low all along. The eyes are turned to the Central Bank, the Tenkits to the Central Bank, but we see that the power leaves the Central Bank alone at this point, in order to encourage structural defects in production, by not doing its part in reducing inflation. Another issue is about our indicators, the matter of debts, the valued lawmakers. We kept saying about debts: there's no reduction in debt. Internal debt increased by 149 per cent, 2.5 times. Public debt has increased by 25 percent. On the other hand, it's under a massive debt structure with the producer of Turkey's economy, with its consumer. In such an environment, we have to say that it is only a need for defence to say that Turkey was given good economic outlook on debt. See, consumer debt, household debt increased from $6.7 billion in 2002 to $236 billion today. 6 billion liras... 236 billion liras... it doesn't matter, if you say the rate of income... is up 4 per cent to 45 per cent, over 11 times. Of course, everyone is concerned about the future of the economy in an environment where consumer consumption is over and tomorrow's revenues are spent on consumption from today. Since savings rates are down to 12 per cent, we also face a false explanation, such as showing austerity rates as the basis of the current deficit. This attitude is the most important sign that the current deficit will continue to increase. Low savings rates are the result of the current deficit before Cari is the result of an open low savings rate. Cari, it's not easy to save money in the imports you're selling, the economics that can't get revenues, the workers who can't get wages, the business community that can't make profits, the real estate owners that are losing rent revenues, other parts that are reducing capital revenues. So we don't think it's right to make it the source of the current deficit without looking at where this structural disorder came from. Finally, I want to draw your attention to some of the statements directly related to the current deficit itself. At every point that we said that Turkey was in such great trouble, we came across a statement about the current explanation. The ruling members said: "As long as Cari can be met openly, there is no problem. " As long as Cari can be met openly. If you say, you won't be able to see the destruction of the current account. Another segment has emerged, a more sophisticated segment. The quality of financing of the cari deficit is important. It was said to be important, and as a result, Turkey endured an open 80 billion dollars. Close to 20 per cent of the current account deficit dating back to 80 billion dollars -- like 16 billion dollars -- comes from a source called the net error failure, which is unknown to where it came from. Dear lawmakers, let's just say the administration doesn't know where it's coming from. And he doesn't even know where this is coming from? He doesn't even know what areas he's in? Thus, it explains that the current deficit is not reflected in the welfare of the citizens as much as it seems, whether it's being met by the way the current deficit is being met with hot money, whether it's being met directly by capital entry, and the practices being met with the purchase of our existing businesses. Notice that at the end of these alienations, at the point where some figures have been shown high in Turkey, it turns out that the GDP's rate of GDP has dropped in time and is not the truth of the national revenues accounted for on illegal domestic property. That's why the government has raised the income per capita to over 10,000 dollars. The more we say, the more our citizens say, "Where's my $10,000?" The economy of Turkey can be assessed under the light of a number of statements with all these indicators, but there is a great deal of distress to be seen. This is the stress of the economy in Turkey, the unrest of business. In Turkey, business environments are restless because they see how the production structure is corrupted. Business circles are looking at the central bank's statements and they see the excitement. Business circles are looking at the government's statements and they see the excitement. The government's step to reduce the current deficit has not been halted, the rise has not been stopped, and at the moment everyone is watching with difficulty, and the reserves of the Central Bank are shrinking significantly in every intervention. In this regard, there are steps the government will take to assess the stress of the Turkish economy. We expect him to get rid of them without delay and make arrangements. Look, the 2008-09 crisis has a huge impact on the mind trauma of this crisis in the emergence of this insecurity. Instead of taking precautions at that time, it has been a great influence today that a government, which was apparently unprepared for the crisis, did not reassure the business environment at the time. Speaking of which, at this point, I would like to remind you that the National Movement Party has established the Global Crisis Watch and Evaluation Commission when the Grand National Assembly of Turkey opened in 2008, despite the lack of measures during the 2009 crisis, and that it has done its part in a regular process of the valuable expert lawmakers' work, with certain periods both public and business environments, and that it has done its part in this sense. Indeed, on this date, 22 October 2008, 5 November 2008, 19 November 2008, 8 January 2009, 20 February 2009, 17 April 2009 and 10 June 2009, these concerns were announced to the public, and some predictions were made to these recommendations and businesses. However, as it will be remembered, we all remember that at that time, the government did not engage in efforts and explanations that would allow business environments and public opinion to see the way in which they were so often and so sensitive. At that point, the fact that at this point, both the medium-term program has not held any predictions for any year and that the past has been evaluated like this, that the government is content with the fact that the government is still regretting the situation of Europe while the threat bell for tomorrow, on the other hand, is ringing. Dear lawmakers, budget equivalence is a very important criteria for budget assessments. And we see that this government often comes into contact with budget equivalence, and it's on top of that. In that regard, I think it would be wise to consider the budget in this regard. If the budget equivalence is made up of taxes from a common and enriched base, that budget will bring wealth. You can get the budget balance at any cost, you can get the tax from the poor, you can get the budget balance, but here comes the budget that makes it poor. At this point, I would like to point out that the budget equivalence that the government provides through 70 per cent of tax-related taxes is essentially a budget application that enriches or makes poorer. Another point is that in the budget equivalent, pure incomes are often applied for. One of them is that privatisation is especially done in terms of selling to foreigners and is the budget equivalent of income from around here. We know that this kind of budget balance is not a healthy way because tomorrow's national income is going to be flowing out. Another way is by testing what we call the reconstruction of debts. There was a need for the restructuring of debts during the 2009 crisis so that our small businesses would not withdraw from the production area, our business would not be destroyed. The fact that it wasn't done at the time of the election shows that it was made only for the sake of the budget, and in this regard, it was pure. You can put them below, and they're pure budgetary measures, and they're not healthy. I want to say that the measures based on this don't mean anything, that they're temporary, that they don't mean a healthy economy. Experts in such practices call them rabbit extractions from hats, so they are trying to express that these measures are not fundamental and fundamental measures. Dear lawmakers, the third point is that a budget equivalence or a high current deficit, which will be said about budget equivalence, which has been established in the current statement, is causing enormous damage to Turkey's economy, while on the other hand, there are some revenues in the budget. As a matter of fact, we're looking at 53.9 billion Turkish dollars for the imported VAT. In the 2012 budget. Tax revenues are 53.8 billion Turkish liras, more so. Thus, we see that the budget is not balanced in this sense again in a healthy way. The fact that the current deficit, known as the twin deficit and the external deficit, is relatively reduced as the current deficit rises to unbearable sizes in Turkey reveals the fact that the deficit is hidden in the current deficit. Because the decline of the budget deficit is in front of a massive current. We think we need to look for this gap in the other big number. The 2009 budget was discussed at the end of 2008, while a budget deficit of $10 billion was envisioned. Don't leave the poor man to himself. We said to power that this would not happen, that we are in crisis and need to be taken care of. These measures were not taken, they envisioned a $10 billion budget deficit, 52 billion deficit. Now, on the eve of 2012, the budget deficit is at 21 billion. I want to say that we are concerned that we have not lost some of the bragging shares in this area, that we need to remind the 2009 budget. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there really are a lot of points for the budget to be assessed, but I'd like to make one or two more points in my time frame, and I'm going to cut this short. But let me put it this way: between two and four percent, it predicts an increase of over 13 per cent in income in exchange for a growth that is considered to be between 1 per cent and 4 per cent. Thus, it is clear that Turkey's economy will be very difficult for our citizens in taxes next year. Government increases 3+3 according to a month's low-end consumer index, but it does its collections according to the manufacturer's prices, which have doubled its tax collections. So, there's a lot to be said about anywhere in this budget, but in order to tell you where the economy of Turkey is, I'd like to tell you about a painting because we haven't had the opportunity to express the applications that have come to us every day in some way on these platforms all the time. I have here a clipping of a local newspaper, from a day or two ago, from Sakarya. This is a copy of the front page of the paper. It says here that banks, foreigners...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0005par0065	Dear Kutluata, your time is up. In parallel with the application of the first day's negotiations of the budget, I will give our groups six minutes -- first and last -- six minutes. Therefore, I give you now three of these six minutes, and Your Honour will use three of them. It will make it easier for the following speakers to speak carefully. I'll give you three more minutes, please.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0006par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. It shows that villages are for execution and that foreign banks are now opening law offices to districts without branches because they can't raise money from large purses and thousands of dollars per acre. He counted our counties here: Kocali, Gayve, Ferizli, Ditch, Tarak, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. But the important thing is that we told the Finance Minister of the period on October 30, 2007, when the 2008 budget was being budgeted, when the 2009 budget was being budgeted, and we told him that it was their duty to monitor the fact that a foreign bank or some foreign banks are paying special attention to some areas of the province; this is the case now in Sakarya. This is a small example of the general attitude of our people, our households, our consumers, our farmer, our producer. Now, dear lawmakers, I have another check from the same place -- 40 chiefs of this district of Kobai County -- the village and neighborhood chiefs, all in all -- signed, printed and sent the seals to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, saying: "This year we don't have any nut products, we're so miserable, we're so screwed up. We want to postpone our debt to agriculture loans, Agriculture Bank and other banks -- they mean them. I think it's very important because these clients are in a difficult situation. During the election, Mukhtars had been forced to try to influence the citizen in the face of warnings that the vote could not be served in order to be channeled to power. Now, the chief of citizens says, "What will our situation be?" The Mukhtars are also applying to the House. But in previous years, this farmer, in the abundance of nut products, was left out of the debt due to the dismantling of FİSKOBIRKIKlKlK, and the disposing of the farmer. They don't say, "It's a debt that he's been saving for $7,000 in those days, so everyone should know its responsibility. He can't say it's the responsibility. That's all they can say. That's what I'm proposing to the High Council and the Government, but I must say that most of the public is in trouble. Dear lawmakers, despite all the shortcomings of this budget and its previous application, Turkey wishes good luck to our nation, although it has not brought it to its destination.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0007par0074	Thank you, Mr. Kutluata. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the second speaker is Mersin MP and Deputy Director of the Group Mr Mehmet Shandır. Mr. Chancer, come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is thirty plus three.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0008par0079	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised to express the views of the National Movement Party Group on the 2012 budget. First of all, I salute your grand delegation. However, before I begin my words, I will begin by expressing the feelings and thoughts of the National Party on the incident in France, which is a very important issue in front of our country and our nation today. As the Nationalist Movement Party Group and its community, we strongly condemn the French Parliament, who took its proposal to commit genocide, to accuse the Turkish nation of genocide, to accuse them of genocide, especially, to present its bill to the French Parliament and the French Parliament on its agenda. I want to hope that the French parliamentarians will come back from this error, but if they persist in wrong, we feel the need to remind them again that we will accept it as hostility and that everyone needs the friendship of the Turkish nation. It's a national issue, it's a national case, and in this case, I'm saying that we're all waiting for the political power to do what needs to be done at the beginning of our nation's nationalist movement community. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, on their way here, another sad news, another important news: there was an unfortunate accident in Diyarbakir, and 24 of our citizens were killed in a car accident. I ask for the mercy of the great God of these citizens who have received the mercy of the righteous, and of their families, and of their relatives. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, before we begin to talk about the budget, I first thank you to all the bureaucrats, the ministry bureaucrats, the politicians, all the deputies who contributed to this budget coming to this point in the Commission and the General Assembly, especially to our members of our group, my friends, and to the members of the House staff who contributed to our work day and night. Once again, budget work is an important and valuable activity for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the political institution. We have to appreciate the value and value of being able to do this, the openness of this House, the work of our democracy. We care about that, and for that, I express again the value of our democracy, of our Parliament. From now on, the responsibility is political power, and the government must now account for the implementation and consequences of this budget. Dear MPs -- you know, it's been repeated many times -- budget talks are actually a general discussion on the country's agenda, and negotiations here are very valuable political documents. In these budget talks, we consider together how to use the resources of the nation in budget talks, how to use them. During budget talks, the community watches the use of its own resources together, being audited by lawmakers, opposition lawmakers. Dear lawmakers, it's called budgetary rights; budget rights are the most important measure of the democratic development of societies. If a society can question how its resources are being used by lawmakers through its Parliament, then it has reached democratic maturity. We find budget negotiations very valuable in that sense. In budget talks, actually...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0009par0088	Mr. Chancer, if I could have a moment of your time. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this hum needs to be cut off so that we can monitor the conversation carefully. If our standing-talking friends feel the need to speak, I would like to ask them to attend to their needs backstage. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0010par0091	I'd like an extension of my time, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0009par0092	You can be sure of my justice.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0010par0093	Dear lawmakers, political parties in budget talks express their predictions for the country and the nation, their perceived threat to the country, their measures and investment priorities in these talks. In fact, budget talks are the mission and vision of political parties, and the audience of this scene is the Turkish nation, our great nation. In budget talks, in fact, power has the ability to account for its actions, and if he can evaluate it, it's actually self-obsessed, it's very valuable, it's very important. For opposition lawmakers, for opposition parties, the issue should be considered an area where they can perform the audit duty on behalf of the nation. In addition, opposition lawmakers are able to present opposition parties' ruling projects to society during budget talks. Dear lawmakers, we, the National Movement Party, have discussed budget talks with this meaning and scope, and our lawmakers have asked a number of questions about it, making suggestions in their many talks. After each budget talks, our group does this kind of work, making projects, proposals presented to the government in these talks like this a book, but so far, the AKP Power, which we've discussed with the 10th budget, did not need this kind of proposal, I'm afraid, nor did they take it into consideration. I believe Mr. Canicli will be out soon. What are you suggesting? You always criticize him. He'll say it, but we say it every time.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0011par0096	I won't say it, I won't say it.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0010par0097	Here, after each budget, nationalist Movement Party MPs' proposals are waiting on shelves in such books. In fact, we never saw the political power, the ruling party group, in this approach, when budget talks should be held within this scope. Every December, we listen to the same chorus, the same thing. Again, you flip the numbers, you blame the opposition, you brag, you're indifferent, you're insufferable. We're supposed to be combining, negotiating and discussing how to use and use the country's resources, but it's a fundamental characteristic of this place. Talks without vision and, unfortunately, praises to the Prime Minister, who has increased his dosage this time. I mean, Mr. Prime Minister doesn't need this, Mr. ruling party members, but that's the basic character of your speaker who comes out here every time, the blame of the past, and the eulogies of the Prime Minister. Unfortunately, budget talks, a constitutional obligation, can't go beyond the fulfillment of a form requirement, which, as I first suggested, is a very valuable opportunity and opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen of law, first and foremost, as we, the National Movement Party, we thank this nation, whoever has done an ounce of service to this country, whatever power there is, but we consider this nation worthy of the best of everything, and most of it, and don't expect us to be satisfied with less. So we don't think this budget is enough, we don't appreciate your defense, we criticize your policies in this sense, and we tell you one more thing, the authorities shouldn't brag. The authorities fulfill their commitment to the nation by the power they have received from the nation. You don't have the right to go up here and say, "This is what we've done." You have no right to rub it in, it's wrong, and you do it in such a disturbing way that we talk every time, it's a tradition in you. In fact, every time We say to him, "Recount this land in comparison with it wherever you want to see it, and talk about it." Looking back at the figures of 2002, it does not suit the scale. Therefore, we see these negotiations as a lost opportunity for power. In fact, you have to question your character. Despite all our insistence, we entered the tenth year, nine years later, the same again: you couldn't get rid of your obsession with his minister, his Prime Minister, his speakers, to evaluate the indexed day to 2002, to predict the future. What's this complex of? What complex expression? We're really having a hard time understanding this. What's that? Is it a guilty conscience? Is it an expression of guilt that you failed in your mission? Dear MPs, whatever it is, we don't consider it a healthy state of mind, a healthy political concept, so you might find it difficult, but the ministers here, I don't condone their individuals, but there's a minister here, looking you all in the eye, he described the previous 2002 as the era of oppression. Is there such a right, dear friends? The persecution period, whatever was done in this country, was done on your return, and nothing good has ever been done in the past! This is not a healthy state of mind. It's no use to you, it's no use to the country. Again, we say, now, compare yourself to yourself, that you have completed your ninth year of power. Compare yourself with the OECD, compare yourself with the European Union, which you strive to become a member of, and compare yourself with the United States. So you can't afford it, you can't afford it, you can't afford it, or you can't do it, and you're trying to blame yourself for the past, and you can't understand that. Actually, I asked you a question before, and I'm asking you again: your power has served nine years. Are there any problems in 2002 that we forget today, dear friends? What problem has been solved, what problem? Here, just now, in broad daylight, on the way to Diyarbakir, there's been a traffic accident between Diyarbakır Batman, 24 of our citizens are dying. What are you bragging about?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0012par0104	Is the government responsible for the accident?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0013par0105	Blaming the government with this...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0014par0106	Please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0015par0107	I mean, it's not a matter of blaming the government, it's a matter of expression. There's no reason to brag here. Whatever's wrong with you yesterday, it's happening today. Dear MPs, again, at the end of nine years -- put your hand on your conscience, our nation is watching us -- what has changed in our people's life from good to good? The change...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0016par0109	Everything's changed, everything.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0015par0110	That's what Mr. Soner says every time. But are you satisfied with this change? You're forcing people to take comfort in this? Why?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0016par0111	That's what the elections show, the elections.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0017par0112	Congressmans, I'm gonna have to ask you. Look, we're discussing the Civil Code decrees from this bench. It's not in our Civil Code to make small talk. There's talk of parties anyway. The party's spokesman or the government will respond to the issues that need to be answered. I'm asking you, let's give up this habit, it's not a good look for a citizen.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0015par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, lawmakers, you have three results in nine years, and the government is here: First, Mr. Münir Kutluata just told you about the situation in the economy with a very technical, well-prepared speech. As a result, after nine years, you removed Turkey from production; Turkey no longer produces it. Don't move around, Turkey doesn't produce. Now we've become a country that's used up by debt from an economy that produces and employs. They've just been given their numbers. Two: You have broken the brotherhood of this country, the brotherhood of this nation, and you have broken its unity. If there are developments in this country that even the Prime Minister is complaining about today, you're responsible for it. Third: Unfortunately, for the first time since the founding of our republic, we are on the verge of a war with our neighbors. You have three results. We believe it will cost this nation and this country a great deal of money. I'd like to share with you a friendly warning and a sorrow. You have more than three outcomes. You've also emptied yourself of conservativeism and democratism, which is a very important value of our nation, which you've named yourself for. Something more dangerous than any outcome. Dear lawmakers, I'm sorry to say, can you compare today with the conservative sensibilities described in our faith or at your beginning? Isn't our measurement the life of our leader, the Holy Prophet? How do you explain your wealth, which has turned into a reign of power? It's a sad conclusion. Two: democracy. Can you talk about being a Democrat in a country where journalists are arrested every day? Another thing: You boast that you are in power by the will of the nation, and every time you bring the will of the nation here, you say: "Speak as much as you can. " But you still arrest elected MPs by the will of the nation, and you don't move a finger in this matter. How is that democratic? [[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, I ask you, Mr. Government, to the ministers: we've grown up. You say, 10,000 dollars is our national income per cent. You say, "You haven't finished your unemployment; you still have 20 percent unemployment rate of our college graduates. The society's savings rate has dropped by 1/3 of the private sector. I thought you said we grew up and got rich. It was 18.6% of its GDP, and now it's down to 13. Wouldn't it save us some money if we got rich? Where's the growth? The household's income increased by two-and-a-half times, while their debt increased by 14.2 times, 14.2 times. Where's the growth, dear friends? Our assets have fallen into the hands of foreigners, the PETKIM, the Petroleum Office, the Telecomu, the banks, the insurance... many companies have taken over the property of foreigners. Have you established a new PETCIM? Have you been able to build a new one? Where's the growth? Who grew up in Turkey? Today, four and a half million people are unemployed, including our people, who are about to work in our country, who can't work, who have given up hope of finding a job, and five million people working at minimum wage. 9.5 million people own green cards, 10 million retired, 20 million villagers, 2 million civil servants live below the poverty line, even if it's not hunger. Where's the growth in that? Let's be thankful for what happened, thank the people who served this nation, but there's no point in coming here and bragging about it in front of everyone. Dear friends, only published yesterday, 10 percent of our population receives 2.1 per cent of the national income, and another 10 per cent of our population gets 32.2 per cent of the national income, which is 12 times the difference. He lives side by side like misery, like fire and gunpowder. How long will this go on, God forbid? Another thing -- excuse me if the Minister is here -- you're bragging about exporting $134 billion, but Mr. President came here and said, "There's 82 cents in imports in $1." How do you say you raised Turkey with 18 cents? You think you're smart, people are stupid? Where are we growing up with 18 cents, dear friends? And that's how much of this 18 cents is a profit to this community, to this community as employment, and that's a separate account. Dear friends, a Mental Health Action Plan of the Ministry of Health has been published, and it is said that your government -- Mr. Minister -- is here -- 18 per cent of the population in Turkey is suffering from a lifetime mental illness. The community is going crazy. You've doubled the number of prisoners in prison in 2002, you've exceeded more than 120,000. The number of files in the executive offices has gone up to 15 million. Dear friends, you're not well, you're not well. Your second result, you've broken the nation's unity. There's really little time, but we can't touch that. Dear friends, we may be in a very bad situation, we may be poor with the economic policies that have been implemented, we may fall, but if we can maintain our unity, we can get up again from where we fell, but with the opening policies that you started today, as I just said, you've reached parallel state formation in the country today, Mr. Prime Minister's statement. Mr. Prime Minister says that a group in Turkey is building a parallel state in society outside the state of the Republic of Turkey. You've planted wind, you've harvested storm. We may have a lot of economic problems, we may have problems with foreign policy, but we can't stand up if we tear apart our nation's unity. This is your work. Mr. Prime Minister, I know the Kurdish identity. He created a new political identity from within this community. I know another identity outside of the Turkish national identity, a political identity that has been ruled by the votes of this nation. Believe me, dear friends, I regret to inform you that it's an act of unwarrantedness. Now, those you know, get down from the mountain, and do politics. These are the people you invited to do so today, they have reached the construction of parallel states within the country. What are you going to do? We insisted on telling you that this road was wrong, and we kept warning you that it was wrong. Mr. President-in-Chief issued a statement on June 15th of 2004, saying: "This is not good, this is not good, this is a brother's quarrel, the bride's sense of responsibility, be discreet, stop this division movement." But that's when you blamed us. You've questioned our identity as a Turkish identity. So if you take away a person's belonging, his privacy, his identity, you question his identity, like a leaf torn off a branch. As a result, today, political separatism has reached the stage of forming a state, as per your permission, in the claim to form a separate state in this country. This is your work, guys. That's the biggest mistake this country can make. I'm not saying it's treason, but if we can't fix it, I mean, if you can nationalize people who have been brothers, who have been living together for a thousand years, whose blood has been mixed together, by identifying them over the differences, you'll have to give them the sovereignty. It's called separatism. That's how you tear this country apart. In every part of the world, in every period of history, geography is torn apart like this. This is your work, dear friends. Dear lawmakers, we strongly condemn the political wing of separatist terrorism and its armed wing. No one has that right. Our country and our nation may have a lot of problems, but if we discuss these problems by doing an ethnic identity subject, what we find out is that the solution increases the unity of this nation; we split up, we break up. Our country has a democracy problem, a management problem, a judicial problem, a lot of problems, but it's Turkey's problem. In order to solve these problems, we have to maintain our unity, produce the common mind in the power of that unit, and create solutions. Therefore, I would like to express to some of our friends as the National Movement Party: If there is a real desire for a democracy based on human rights and the rule of law to settle and develop in Turkey, and the solution to problems is now seen here, some things need to be well distinguished and put in their place. First, all responsible political circles and intellectuals must give up on the habit of describing democracy from their own perspectives alone, as an instrument of the implementation of their own interests or ideals. Democracy cannot be established by constantly emphasising cultural and ethnic differences, by deepening them and even institutionalizing them, by working. In the end, there's just more conflict, more difference, and more dissolution. Democracy is a political system in which relations between individuals, family, society and state are shaped to create the state of law, starting with basic rights and freedoms. As citizens of democratic values, rights and freedom, they are the legitimate source of their rights and freedom, they also appoint the responsibility of citizens against the state. The democratic state structure has to be based on these properties, so there can't be an imposition based on ethnic subdivision, ethnity or sect. These are people's own privates, worthy of respect, but we can't shape the democratic system or society or state by forcing them. It's the separatism that people intend to do. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we view the institutional law of our democratic republic and state based on human rights, the principles of social law, the indisputableness of the official language and flag, a secular state sense of freedom of religion and conscience, the undisputable structure of our borders, and the obligation to oppose all kinds of terrorism. It's a responsibility to be the intellectual who's doing politics here. Everyone who eats this country's bread and drinks its water must act in this common denominator. In that sense, you will kneel before the people of Botan from the Prime Minister of Hasip Kaplan. I find your approach very wrong, and I find it unacceptable. These people don't kneel before anyone, friends, they don't have that right. (Applause from MHP rows) It's not called brotherhood, it's called democracy, it's officially hostility, and this hostility is of no use to anyone. Don't let anyone else think about it. Dear friends, time is short, but the third issue is your mistake in foreign policy. Dear friends, as far as we're concerned today, our country is closest to war in foreign policy. Is it possible to come back? Your return to Israel has touched our honor. I don't know how you're going to make the turn of your firm stand against Syria, but what you're doing is wrong, not Turkey. This republic has come to this point, fighting for 90 years; its soft power has improved both as soft energy and supported the transformation of its neighbours and neighbors. What happened today, my friend, with my brother Syria, that we came to such an enemy place? We know what happened in Libya, what happened in Iraq, what happened in Afghanistan. After all this, it is not appropriate for Turkey and the Turkish nation to subvert an intervention in Syria as part of the Great Middle East Project. I'm here to invite Mr. Secretary of State or the government to make a statement, knowing that this is an opportunity. They should come here and say: "We will not intervene in Syria." We will oppose an international intervention with Syria and will not be involved. We will not use Turkey's territory for a military intervention in Syria. They must say so. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] I believe that's what all of our citizens, the ministers of the government, who voted for the AKP, are waiting, but it's not what it looks like, it's not what's said in the West, it's what's being offered to Turkey, and that's how Turkey is spoken in Syria, and that's what the Syrian people are talking about today, against the leaders of Turkey and the Republic of Turkey. It's a shame! We have no right to make such a mistake, dear friends. I've watched Mr. Secretary of State here, expressing my sorrows, counting himself, but I have the transcript of the speech here -- you heard it -- as if he's riding on a horse, wearing a sword, going on a expedition. He boasts of the murder of 50,000 Muslims in Libya. It's a sad event. You must not allow this nation to experience this disgrace in Syria. Dear MPs, at the end of my words, I'd like to give a friendly warning. If you have any say in these three matters, come and say so, but I repeat: you have removed Turkey from production, Turkey is no longer producing. Return Turkey to an economy that reproduces. You've broken Turkey's unity, you've opened it, others are going that way. Give up these opening policies. With the misguided direction of the demolition coordinator, I believe the Prime Minister has taken a path he regrets today.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0018par0147	Mr. Chancer, I'll give you an extension. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0015par0149	Give up these opening policies. It's no use to our Kurdish noble citizens, it's no use to Turkey, it's no use to anyone. In the process of implementing these global projects, what good is it to tear apart the unity of this nation? It's a waste of time, dear friends. Give it up. Third: Stop this foreign policy approach, becoming co-chair of global forces, subcontractor. In the Western world, we have offered Syria to Turkey. Stop carrying such a disgrace. Now put an Ankara-based foreign policy, a national policy ahead of this nation. If you can't do that, if you can't do that, in non-registered negotiations, give back to whom you have promised, whatever you promised, if you are on the horizon of the unreturnable evening, our recommendation is to return the trust you received from the nation. This nation is not helpless, it will surely bring a new power within itself. As the National Movement Party, we are always ready to serve our nation. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, we should have discussed the future in a budget meeting, not these. I finished about half my speech, and I was going to talk about it behind my back. I'll put it on my web page, so anyone who's curious can read it. It's the first quarter of a new century. Turkey may be the leading country in its region, Turkey. In the eighth annual Development Plan prepared by Mr. President of the National Movement Party, the vision of Turkey, the leader country, has now become a state policy. If we do the right thing, we can take advantage of the opportunities of the international conjunctural, and we can make our country the leading country Turkey, but in this vicious cycle, in 2002, if you can't do that by separating the nation's differences, by separating the nation's differences, by dividing this country with a mindset that tries to defend yourself by comparing yourself to the present, or by subservient to global projects, freedom, democracy. As the National Movement Party, we insist on warning you that the path you're going to take is wrong, and the cost of this error will be too great, so don't justify the vote you received from the nation to yourself. The result is untested, no trial of death, dear friends. With these policies, an entire empire was destroyed, and we lost a country ten times the size of today's country. So, as the National Movement Party, we give you our sincere warnings on behalf of the nation, hoping you'll benefit. I, despite everything, wish this budget to be a blessing to our country and our nation, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0019par0158	Thank you, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0020par0159	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0019par0160	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0020par0161	Mr. Orator has made a statement about something that mentions my name. It's not like that. I'd like to make a statement to that subject, which is distorted, because my name is mentioned, according to 69...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0019par0162	The president can make a promise if he is in the same session. I'll consider your request.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0020par0163	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0019par0164	I'll consider the Civil Code appropriate, please...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0020par0165	Mr. President, but...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0019par0166	I didn't say I wouldn't make a promise, you demanded on the basis of the Civil Code 69, so I took the opportunity according to 69...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0020par0167	According to 69, Mr. President: Mr. Hatip said that he would bring the Prime Minister to his knees in front of the people of Botan by mentioning his name. He said, "He said, "I will bring him to his knees before the people of Botan." I have to explain that this isn't the case because it's the wrong information, one. Second, my name has been mentioned. Third, there's a very clear situation at this stage under the Civil Code. I'll give you an answer under the gentle criticism of Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0019par0169	I didn't say I wouldn't make any promises. You want to speak according to 69. So I said, "I'll appreciate it if I'm in the same session." If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0020par0171	It's not the same session, it's the heat.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0019par0172	No, it's hot, it's the same session.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0020par0173	The heat...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0019par0174	Here, the work we call hot is in the same session.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0020par0175	That's the way it is. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0019par0176	Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Akif Hamzacebi is in charge.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0020par0177	But, Mr. President, I'd like to make a decision...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0019par0178	I didn't say I wouldn't. I'm sitting here, I haven't closed the session. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0021par0181	Mr. President, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I salute you and our nation watching over television. As I begin my speech, I condemn people's fundamental rights and freedoms, or in this context, France, which is a dirty history of human right to live, because of this anti-depression and anti-depression policy against Turkey. [[A round of applause from CHP, AK PARTY and MHP]] I'd like to begin my assessment of the budget by saying a few words about the justice and judicial system in Turkey. Because budgets are not only a platform where economic policies, numbers are discussed, but also a platform where the government's entire policy is evaluated. Again, economic stability is based on political stability. If there is political stability in a country, there is economic stability, and political stability, as many of us think, stems from the fact that people's basic rights and freedoms are guaranteed, not from a single party government based on the majority of parliament. We're talking about the 10th budget the Justice and Development Party has made since it became a government in 2002, and in that ten years, every new government established on behalf of the Justice and Development Party gave a more authoritarian appearance than the former. Turkey is far behind human rights and freedoms today, compared to the starting point of the Justice and Development Party governments. Last week was Human Rights Week; it was celebrated all over the world, Turkey was not celebrated. As Turkey entered Human Rights Week, there were 128 thousand people in its prisons. 55,000 of these 128 thousand people were under arrest. I don't think there's another democracy, another developed country democracy where about half of the people in their prisons are under arrest, and let's shorten the imprisonment of those who view 55,000 prisoners as prisoners. When such a suggestion is presented, possible prisoners will be released. I can't think of a democracy in developed countries where there's a power blocking them this way. I can't really see Turkey in Turkey's 21st century of Turkey as having such a reality in Turkey, a goal such as the European Union. We want free education. I don't think there's another democracy, another democracy like Turkey, where young people have been tried as members of an armed terrorist organization for nearly two years. I don't think there's another democracy in the Prime Minister's Hopa rally where citizens who have been arrested as members of a terrorist organization protesting the excessive use of security forces due to the excessive use of force, have been arrested in prison for nearly six months and have been tried as a member of a terrorist organization. I think such a democracy does not exist in the world. There is no other democracy other than Turkey, where throwing eggs, opening banners, making press statements is considered a terrorist act. I don't think student leaders have postcards, megaphones, banner sticks, another country, another democracy, another judicial system. I don't think there's another democracy like Turkey, where dozens, hundreds of our citizens have lost their lives because of the lack of treatment, the possibility of treatment in prisons. This is happening in Turkey, Turkey, at a time when the Justice and Development Party was in power in the 21st century, and Turkey has a democratic regime. As the Justice and Development Party increased its vote in each election, Turkey began to meet a more authoritarian government. Today, those who have anti-government ideas, critics of power, students, scientists, journalists, are being tried by special authorities for their opinion alone. All of this is happening in Turkey, where after every election, Mr. Prime Minister gives welcoming speeches to our citizens and talks on the balcony. I'd like to remind you once again of the Prime Minister's balconies. I tell the Prime Minister once again to get past this place, once again my heartfelt wish for healing, but the balconies should not only be the places where power and power are felt, but the bays of death, but the symbols of freedom. I'm telling the Prime Minister to remember these conversations once again from this stand. To better understand today, I'd like to share with you a few examples of history. In Islamic political history, Emevis were the first to establish the rule system passed from father to son, and Emevi sultans saw themselves as representatives of God, and because they had positioned themselves in such a way, they were legitimizing their own persecution and injustices through the concept of the concept of. Such a fate had nothing to do with such a destiny, and today it is due to the majority of the Justice and Development Party to legitimize all decisions through the concept of the majority. ▪ Most are right, and all the things the majority say are true, and their understanding is not a proper understanding of democracy. Again, in the Emevi period, a thousand and three hundred years ago, it was free to think critically about Emevi sultans, to think as one would like, but it was forbidden to share these thoughts with others, not to speak to others, just as it is today. Legislative governments take power from the concepts of freedom, equality, and justice. If the first condition of legitimacy is strong public support behind decisions and policies, the second condition is that these decisions and policies follow the principles of freedom, equality, and justice. The governments that carry these two conditions together are legitimate, and the levels of legitimacy rise to the extent that legitimate governments, legitimate governments, legitimate governments, all individuals, guarantee equal freedom for all citizens. In this regard, the Government of the Justice and Development Party in Turkey has a legitimate problem because Turkey has a human rights problem. Dear lawmakers, after this political assessment, I'd like to move on to my assessment of the budget, economic issues. A few days ago, a search of the income and living conditions of the TÜİK (TİK) was published the previous day, and the figures are striking. According to the study, 16.9 puts Turkey's population, 12,400,000 people, living below the poverty line. This budget, the budget that we discussed, does it provide a solution to the problem of this citizen? Now, the ruling party speakers, the ministers representing the government, will come up here and say, I can see that when we came to power, this was much more, in 2002; we reduced it. You declared an emergency action plan after you came to power in 2002, where you said that 15 percent of the population is below the poverty limit. Well, now it's 16.9. Did you miscalculate then? In Turkey, where 12,400,000 people are poor, the government cannot tell a success story. I said we're talking about the 10th budget. Governments face the public in elections because they can't do what they can't do. Every period of power is accounted for in the election. In these budget talks, representatives of the government, as before, those who represent the ruling party, chose to talk about the present, based on nine years ago. In fact, what needs to be done is to explain on the basis of 2011, what goals the Justice and Development Party will lead Turkey to during the next four years of power. It wasn't chosen. What was it nine years ago, and now what? They want to get a success story out of here. Of course, if there is success, the government will boast of it, and it has the right to boast. But the point that came today, compared to the starting point nine years ago, is that there is no success if it does not refer to success in matters such as levels of capture, growth, unemployment, unemployment, public everyday life, poverty. Or if the level that was captured today was captured in the period before nine years ago, in similar times, there is still no success. Something could have been done in some areas. But there are three concepts, such as growth, unemployment, employment, specifically, that I choose. The income distribution, tax system, tax justice; there is no success for the government to boast of nine years ago. Success is a story written from end to beginning. If the place you're reaching is a very good place, there's success. Let's see if we have it or not. So I'm going to take the 2002 figures, as the government and the ruling party spokesman did, and I'm not going to take another number, but if I were you, I'd take 2011, and I'd take 2015. Since 2001, money and finance policies have been laxed due to recession in the world's economy, especially in developed countries. Let's not have such a recession again, let's get past the recession, which has led to a lack of concern, money and finance policies. As a result, an extraordinary increase in liquidity has occurred in international markets. There has been an extraordinary increase in demand due to this liquidity increase. This has put all the world's economies into a process of growth, the whole world has grown, and Turkey has grown in the process. The whole world has been through an unprecedented process of growth. Let's figure this out, and this international liquidity is headed for developing countries, where there's a lot of revenue. The developing countries wanted to draw this liquidity into their own country, with high interest, and they were significantly successful. Turkey used another instrument with high interest, low currency. He presented a dual instrument and the hot money came to Turkey. The Minister of Finance at the time had a very nice phrase, about the withdrawal of hot money with these two instruments: ▪ The foreigners said that they kissed us twice. So he comes in and makes money on high interest, and then, at the end of the semester, when he's transferring his money, he's making money off of it. Now things aren't as good as they used to be, things aren't good out there. There won't be that much money, Turkey has problems. The government is willing to kiss the treasure, but there are no strangers to kiss. Important growth has been recorded in Turkey on the basis of an increase in import and domestic demand. We've come up with this growth process up to 2007, but this conjunctural opportunity, which the world economy offers, unfortunately, has not been used well. Since it has been used as a source of domestic demand in Turkey, rather than as it has been used as a means of consumption, rather as it has been used rather than as a basis for fixed capital investments that will lead to production and exports, which will lead to production and exports. Consumption-based growth was a problem with the sustainability of Turkey's growth. We've come to this with such a process. In those days, as of 2007, the Turkish economy again began to abandon and shrink those high growth rates, and in 2009, Turkey's economy became one of the most shrinking economies in the world. We've thrown the blame out, but we've become one of the smaller ones, because we've had problems, but economic management has ignored them so far. The government's expected problem with economic policies, which have arisen by the 2009 crisis, has been detected and a new economic framework that is suitable for this, while preparing a new economic programme, which has not been reached. The mid-term programme, which was announced after 2009, is the same as the medium-term program, which covers the last 2012-2014 period, based on the same assumptions, the same policies. What were the fundamental problems of the Turkish economy when the AKP took over the government in 2002? 1) There was no sustainable high growth, the economy was growing, and then it went into crisis, and as it started to recover, it was going back into crisis. Unemployment was high, 10.3%. In the '80s, in the 90s, the Turkish economy's unemployment average was 8 per cent; in 2002, the 2001 crisis affected 10.3. Total domestic savings were beginning to decline, becoming prone to decline, a very natural result of IMF-backed policies since 2000, and the decline in domestic savings was clear. A country's savings deficit is equal to a current deficit; if you don't have savings, you're going to take outside resources, you're going to borrow money. Indirect taxes were well within tax revenues. Why? Since 2000, the stability programme had taken an important step on the income side, in which time the structure needed to be transformed into a more just one. In its own time, the AKP used a rhetoric that sparked growth. However, the average growth rate between 2003 and 2014, including the upcoming Midterm Program period, is 5.11% of the average growth rate of the AKP administrations. So that's the boasted growth, precious MPs. Turkey's economy grew by 5.2 per cent in the 80s. The growth average of the 90s is close to 4 percent. The average growth of the Republic's history is 4.6 per cent by 2002. There's World War II, there's 1929 economic depression, there's crises, there's coups, there's revolutions, there's 4.6. What have you guys grown up to be? 5,1. The government says we're good. We're not good, precious MPs. And we have to compare that to someone else. I compared it to us, what grew from 2003 to 2011? I'm taking other countries. Turkey grew 5.2 between 2003 and 2011. Other countries, developing countries, 6.6%. We're behind him. Sub-Saharan Africa 5.6. What are we? 5, 2. Commonwealth 5.3, Asian countries 8.7, North Africa 4.9. We passed North Africa just a tiny bit. So there's no successful growth performance. For one thing, let's find out. 2) What was unemployment in 2002? 10.3. What is the government aiming for next year? The government offers 10.4 per cent unemployment as a success for next year. So, ten years later, the AKP admits it will not even achieve unemployment level ten years ago. Isn't the whole point of an economic policy to create jobs for citizens? If he can't create a job, if he can't even catch Turkey's unemployment levels before 2000, if he can't even catch 2002, is it possible to talk about a successful economic programme? The second issue, aside from growth and unemployment, is that domestic savings are low. I told you. In fact, it had begun to fall from 2000. Until 2007, the economy came with relatively high growth rates, and since 2007, growth rates began to decline, and under the growth of the Turkish economy in 2000, the current open issue emerged, as well as growth. Cari is an open, direct problem caused by the reduction of domestic savings. I want to show you a painting. Here's the painting: 1998 here, 2011, 2012 here. In 1998, the total domestic savings in the Turkish economy initially amounted to 24.3 per cent of the GDP. Look, this policy, it's starting to go down from 2000. 18.4% in 2000, 18.6% in 2002. The early years of the Stabilisation Program are trying to find balances in the economy. You view 2002 as bad. Where'd he go today? In 2011, there was a reduction of nearly half according to 13.3, or 1998, and by 2002, there was a reduction of close to one-third. As long as we don't turn this curve upwards, Turkey will continue to have crises. In the third quarter of 2011, the economy grew 8.2 per cent, and the government couldn't rejoice. Why? Cari's at the open door because we're gonna hit the wall, and the government wants to cool down the economy, and the government wants to take down the growth. Dear MPs, as long as this curve doesn't turn up, Turkey has no solution. Here's the other painting: growth-capital open relationship. Look, between 2003 and 2007, Turkey's economy grew by 6.9 per cent, 4.6 per cent in current open income. The 2008-09 crisis years, the economy averaged 2.1 percent reduced, 4 per cent account deficits; this is the first time this has happened in Turkey's economy. In the years when the economy is smaller, the economy is not open, but Turkey's economy is so dependent on imports that Turkey's economy has given rise to the year it shrinks. We've come to 2010-2011. Growth rate average is 8.3, current 7.9 percent. In 2012-2014, the government wants to lower growth, it wants to cool the economy, there's 4.7 percent growth. Cari's open, almost the same as last year. So even though growth is down by half, there's no shortage of current activity. Now, is it possible to say that this painting is better than 2002? The government has no protection against the current open risk, no alternative policy. It's just that he put the liberal economy amulet in his pocket, and this amulet protects me from risks, crises, he says. Dear lawmakers, the current problem is becoming more and more chronic. I've just stated that the most important way to overcome this is a policy that increases total domestic savings. Besides, Turkey has things to do. Turkey faces an extraordinary loss of competitiveness. According to figures in the Annual Economic Report, under which the government signed it, Turkey ranked ranked ranked 61st in the World Competition League in 2007, and fell down to 61st in 2010. In 2011, the number is 59. There's a great piece of research on the Federal Reserve page. A study, based on Turkey's intense foreign trade relations and also Turkey's rival countries in the world markets, is based on 15 countries, which regulates the range of 1997-2010. In 2010, compared to 97, Turkey's economy lost its competitiveness by 70 per cent to the 15 countries I mentioned. Well, maybe one of the ways to increase it is a courtship policy, but you can use the courtship policy to a certain extent. In our country, where the dollar is busy, where the dollar is still a means of saving and paying, you have no chance of using it forever. You can also use the currency policy at some point in terms of the real sector's $123 billion open position. Although the Central Bank seems to have kept the interest and released it dry today, I think there's a reasonable limit to it. What Turkey must do is turn itself inside out to increase its competitiveness, effectively using tax and incentive policies. The tax burden on employment in Turkey is 36 per cent. Of the 34 OECD countries, it is the 9th. The OECD average is 25 per cent. For example, a policy that will reduce the tax burden on employment without sacrificing total tax revenues will breathe into Turkey's economy, Turkey's industry, exports, but I don't see any sign of such a policy in the government. Another thing that concerns the budget very closely is our farmers, the agriculture sector. The budget is where the expectations of all communities are discussed. Are these expectations being met or not? Now, I'm looking at the 2012 budget, $7 billion 180 million from the 2012 budget to the agricultural sector. Alone, that doesn't mean anything. What is this? Two percent increase from last year. So, how many 2012s is inflation? 5.2%. So you're not even giving the farmer inflation, let alone growing up. So the national income is going up 11.3 percent, we've stopped growing, there's not even an increase in inflation. What's the rate on budget, national income? Five out of a thousand. In 2002, what is the national rate of agricultural benefits? It's small, but it's high, five-thirds a thousand. So you didn't even get 2002. Now, we support the agriculture industry. The rhetoric is a little high. Now, the index, the inflation, the growth... How much agricultural input do I get in exchange for the best measure for the farmer's product I produce? That's what I know. The farmer says. And I'm giving you an example. In 2002, a wheat producer received 4kg of wheat and 1 litre of diesel, and today he cannot buy 1 litre of diesel with 6kg of wheat. In 2002, the beet manufacturer could buy 1 litre of diesel with 15 kilos of beets, while today, with 30 kilos of beets, he could only get 1 litre of diesel. In 2002, the dairy manufacturer received more than two kilos of milk and only one litre of milk and one kilo of food today. When it comes to agricultural matters, I'll call an animal feed salesman in Tripoli. I searched for the tradesman Osman Yıldırım, at the Tonya Market of Tripoli. I said, "Osman, what's the situation?" He said to me, "We used to buy a sack of dandruff with 10 kilos of milk, and now we can't buy a sack of dandruff with 30 kilos of milk." That's the way it is. At Tonya Bazaar, the tradesman Osman Yıldırım... is not a Republican People's Party, I'll tell you that. A cow used to take care of a family, and now a family is trying to take care of a cow. That's the situation, dear friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, to illustrate the increase in the power of the minimum wage, Mr. Finance Minister said he was buying this much milk in 2002, with minimum wage, and now he's getting this much milk. Behind that, the milk manufacturer was knocked down. Also, I'd like to thank the Minister for those 2002 figures. Every year, Mr. Secretary gave me a different number when he gave me the numbers on the minimum wage's purchasing power. Last year, I gave an example of food materials that weren't on that list. Mr. Secretary used one of the food materials I used last year. I want to thank him for giving me that sample. The sample was white cheese. Asgari is paid -- according to the Minister's statement -- in December 2002, when he receives 34 kilograms of white cheese, he can now gain 47 kilograms. I'd like to ask that the Minister's 2002 figure be corrected a little bit. Because it's a number calculated by the 94 index, and the other is the number 2011, calculated by the 2003 index. It's not right to compare the number of two separate indexes. According to the 2003 index, I'm saying that in January 2003, the minimum wager could get 61 kilograms of white cheese, and now it's down to 47 kilograms. Of course, that's the November number. It is not right to compare November 2011 to the January of 2003. If we take the January of 2012, the minimum wage increase of $19 will not change those numbers much. For the first time, when a budget is being made, there is no ruling in the budget on what public officials, officers' salary increases will be. It's not forgotten, of course, because according to the new system adopted by the September 12, 2010 referendum, the salaries of civil servants, civil servants, will now be determined by collective agreement. Well, it's been 14 months. Where, why didn't you pass the relevant law? Now we're going to take out the relevant law. They say, "We'll take it out after the budget." They say, "We'll take it out after the budget." Officers getting paid on January 15th. When are you going to do the collective contract with whom?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0022par0225	Mr. Hamzacebi, I'll give you an extension.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0021par0226	Thank you, Mr. President. I mean, with a compressed calendar, you'd have collective contracts to show off with the government parallel unions. Either you regret making this arrangement, or you will make these arrangements with such a compressed calendar because you will not make a proper increase. We have a lot to talk about with the budget, of course, not enough time. The important thing, of course, is to be able to say as much as possible in this short time. Now I'm talking about public servants. The government established the Economic and Social Council. In fact, he made it a constitutional institution on September 12, 2010. In fact, there has been this Council since 2001, which has been a constitutional institution. All parts of the community will address their demands on this Council. E became a constitutional institution with a referendum on September 12, 2010, and the Council still hasn't met. The Council has not met since February 2009. In two months it'll be three years, the Council is gone. On the other hand, you're making extraordinary arrangements in public administration. You made an arrangement under the name Equal Work, you didn't even it, you made an arrangement by considering all titles. All general managers are equal, all policemen are equal, the bomb squad is equal to the police and the police are equal, one manager is equal to the other. You turned it upside down. Where are the teachers' appointments? 250 grand of our teachers are waiting to be appointed. Our former Minister of National Education, Mr. Nimet Chobuçik, said that 55,000 teachers will be appointed in 2011, and it's up to 40,000. I mean, isn't the word of Mr. Chobuchur a promise by your understanding? Is it the new Minister's duty to repeat his words and apologize to the teachers when Mr. Chookchi leaves the Ministry? I'm inviting the government on duty. We have an offer. If you don't like it, bring it yourself, we'll get it out of here. Czech victims: Economic crime is an economic punishment. These people want to regain their dignity. Let's separate the con men from them, but let's give these people a chance to regain their dignity. Our proposals are for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Our proposal for the law, which will make up the difference between the old and the new pensioner, is in Parliament, and our offer for family insurance is in Parliament. We've submitted our law proposal for 2/B to the Speaker of Parliament in accordance with the promise we made in the election. He wants to buy the land he's been using since his grandfather. We thought we'd pay no price. And the others, let's look at his economic power; he's got a house, he's got a building, and you don't have to say that I'm selling this guy at a real price, real estate tax value. Let's all do this here. That's what society expects. I'm finishing my words... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me get this straight.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0023par0238	Yes, thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi, three minutes are up.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0021par0239	But here's my final greeting.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0023par0240	Well, for the salute, please...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0021par0241	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, I'm gonna finish my speech here. Thank you for listening to me patiently. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0023par0244	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the second speaker is Tekirdağ MP Mr. Faik Öztrak. Here you go, Mr. Oztrak. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Oztrak, your time is the same.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0024par0249	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group for the overall draft of the Central Management Budget Law for 2012. I hereby salute the General Assembly and the following citizens. Dear lawmakers, the Justice and Development Party tells a success story in the economy with its intense media support and power opportunities and forces everyone to believe it. During the budget talks today, both ministers and ruling party spokesman have continued their approach. I'd like you to listen carefully to the facts I'm about to make. Dear lawmakers, first, let me tell you what kind of economy you took over at the beginning of what you call the age of our apprentice at the end of 2002. The economy of Turkey, which was rapidly narrowed by the crisis, was rapidly recovering as a result of a program prepared by a team that I was involved with. Growth was above 6 per cent. Inflation dropped 39 points from one year ago to less than 30 percent. Public debt interest has dropped by over 30 points a year. Soon financial discipline was provided, the banking system was restructured, the companies' division stood up again with support. Now, you've taken over such an economy and an economic program that inspires confidence. As your Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy said, you just had to connect the economy to the autopilot. The program you received and the extremely good global climate, the plane flew smoothly on automatic pilot. That's how you spent your apprentice period, but you couldn't see the changing world conditions, and you've caused the economy to build up vulnerability. In 2007, just at the beginning of your camp, the plane began to turbulence. Now, let me show you some indications. During your apprentice period, Turkey was the 44th economy that increased its income in 149 developing and rising economies. From your 2007 caliphic era to this day, you have brought the economy back to the 98th place. So 54 countries passed Turkey in the growth race during your phalanx. Stop being such a fast fish, you're slow fish. As for your situation in the development race: According to the United Nations' humanitarian development reports, Turkey ranked 80 percent in terms of humanitarian development in 2000, at the end of your term as an apprentice, at the end of your training period in 2007, at 85, and at the end of 2011 when you finished caliph. In the power of a party called "staying up," Turkey was permanently lost in the development race, and it was just hanging on your party's sign. It's the same thing on the unemployment front. Turkey, among the 71 emerging and rising economies, was the highest 36 ▪ unemployed economy when you took power. In your power, Turkey has climbed up 14 steps in the unemployment ranking. At the end of your term, unemployment became the 22nd highest economy. Is that what success is? How can we call this a success? According to the Economic Co-operation and Development Agency, Turkey is the latest member of the Agency in 2010 in terms of the employment and employment of its working population. But the painting is even worse for our women. Women don't have room for work and work. Of every 100 women in Turkey, only 30 are in working life. None of us can accept such a painting in Turkey, which aims at the level of civilization. It is not possible for a society to develop, democratize, become a modern country, and move forward with confidence. Another injury that bleeds in AKP power is the unemployment of young people. In the prime of their lives, our children, whom parents look at with a thousand sacrifices, are in the throes of despair. In the rising market economy of Korea and Mexico, 10 out of 100 young people are unemployed and 20 out of 100 are unemployed. Aren't we all proud of the young and dynamic population of Turkey? How can you brag when you can't provide work for this population, when you can't use that advantage? The most important work of your phalanx is the unstoppable rise of current deficits. The government has done what no republic government can. You must have broken the current record in this country so that no one would lose it. The government owns exports in Turkey, but the import that takes its head off in this country is unclaimed, orphaned. You ruled Turkey for nine years with such a sense of power. You quickly wear out the country's competitiveness. You've transferred jobs and jobs that can stay in our country abroad. The external explanations you gave are obvious. Between 150 developing and rising economies, in your first year as an apprentice, the number of countries that gave less jobs than Turkey was 48, the number of countries that gave fewer deficits than Turkey at the end of your apprenticeship was 77. By the time you finished, the current deficit of 104 economies was less than Turkey. Turkey's current deficit in the AKP's government, meaning the deficit of the currency balance sheet, has suddenly deteriorated 55 digits. I would especially like to point out that Turkey has fallen 54 steps in the growth order between the AKP's apprentice and his predecessor, and has gone up 55 steps in the current. When you look at this painting, it's like, "God save Turkey from your mastery." As a matter of fact, in the first year of your mastery, the current was up to 80 billion dollars. You made Turkey the second world after the United States of America in exchange for foreign currency. Yes, valuable lawmakers, Turkey is the second most current economy in the world with an 80-billion-dollar current account deficit. So, who's in front of us? There is the United States of America. Let me compare it to Mr. Babacan, who compares himself to America at unemployment, saying, "The Big Fish swallows not the small fish, but the big fish swallows the big fish." I said that you made Turkey the most profitable country in the world after America, but the income of America is 19 times the income of ours. He owns the US dollar printery. The current deficit of America is only five times ours. And here's to income distribution and poverty indicators. Dear lawmakers, the figures explained by the TÜİK (TİK) reveal to all of us what the real economy in which the citizen lives. At the end of the Kalfalik period, in 2010, 45 million 131,000 of our citizens can't eat a pot containing meat, chicken or fish at least every two days. 58 million, 308,000 citizens can't change their old furniture in their homes. The number of citizens who can't afford new clothes is 26 million 504,000. In the cold winter days, we have 26 million,268 thousand citizens who do not have the ability to heat their homes. We have 62,396 thousand citizens who can't take a week's vacation away from home. The number of our citizens overwhelmed by debt and payment of installments is 41,336 thousand. Dear lawmakers, in 2010, the number of citizens living under the border of financial deprivation increased by 811,000 people in the previous year, and 45 million 303,000. So you said, "The crisis has passed." But you left the burden on the citizen. Here are the real human landscapes in Turkey, where you tell stories of success. Dear lawmakers, the OECD recently published a first-time study. It's a very interesting study, and I strongly recommend that you read it. The name of the study is: How is your life? They looked at the life satisfaction of citizens in countries who are members according to 11 different measures, such as income, prosperity, work, gain, health, education. The result is that people who are least satisfied with their life within the OECD live, unfortunately, in our country, in Turkey. I'd like to give you a few striking examples of the report: Turkey is the country with the worst working conditions in the OECD countries. Half the workers in Turkey work more than 50 hours a week. In your power in Turkey, people have no confidence in each other. Of every 100 people, only nine can rely on anyone else! Out of 34 countries, I'm afraid Turkey is the last one at this rate. I give these to your attention in particular. The success of an economy cannot only be measured by the increase of national income; the success and development of an economy are measured by the increased quality of life for a citizen. Otherwise, economic development remains a percentage of change on paper, only pleasing hot moneymen. Dear lawmakers, health is the most ambitious area in the government. Just a few days ago, the Minister was bragging about making a revolution in health, but in the first year of your mastery, you were stuck in health. Over the years, you've been charged with doctors, then pharmacists, then pharmaceutical companies, but the sea is over! When the money was spent in the treasury, you began to burden the citizen with his contribution. The public's medical expenses are increasing steadily and rapidly. And you expect to increase them even more. You've prevented a citizen from being examined and operated on by experienced professors in public hospitals. You have returned the teacher who you kidnapped from the state hospital with a decree of law enforcement and brought him back for the operation of Mr. Prime Minister. So, which one of these is true? Of course it's the second. Access to healing and human health are sacred, but not only the Prime Minister's, but the lives of all citizens are sacred. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, in a nutshell, the bill of opportunities wasted during the Justice and Development Party's apprentice period has been made to pay citizens back by the rapid melting of the country's competitiveness during the caliphic period, the breaking of the race for growth and development, the creation of quality and continuous jobs in the economy. During this period, power did not take structural measures that would increase our country's competitiveness and potential for growth. He failed to perform the necessary transformations and squandered significant opportunities. In short-term, populist interests, the wasteful Justice and Development Party, which doesn't care about structural problems, has not been able to interpret the final change in the global climate with the painful memories of the 2009 crisis in memory. As the outside crisis takes steps towards our door, the AKP has done a great deal of populism for power in the elections. He has never taken his foot off the gas, but he has created a false enthusiasm by covering the gap between a debt that feeds on hot money and the income of a citizen and his hopes. The price has been the world's second-largest current deficit and rapidly increasing global capital-hot money dependency. When the crisis came to the door, the aircraft, as Mr. Babacan called it, had been manualized, and suddenly the number of pilots had increased, and a voice appeared separate from each head. First, Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy and Vice President of the Justice and Development Party arrive in mid-July, and stop spending. But soon after they entered the ball, saying, "There is no crisis, there is no crime," the Minister of Economy, Minister of Science, Industry and Technology and Minister of Social Security. On July 27th, the prime minister said the tangent would not pass. What's scary is that the president of the Central Bank, who should be independent, is joining this choir. Ten days later, however, the crisis administration was taken over in Turkey. The boat will not even pass. The burden of the crisis, which is called a cruel increase, is placed on the shoulders of the citizens. (HPP) While the citizens were overwhelmed by raises, the ministers of this country were able to explain without being bored that only they could laugh in a resort in France, where they went to the G20 meeting. Dear lawmakers, when we do these warnings, the government assumes that we're trying to do this in opposition, but as the government does, everything is fine with us. To pump its air, to give advice and lessons to overconfident economies, makes it look like we're not aware of the world out there. Therefore, I warn the government of this bench. Get rid of this morbid, narcissistic self-esteem image. We're aware that what you're doing is whistling in the cemetery. (CHP rows) But don't forget that while you think you're showing off, you can pull the rug under the feet of the nation with you. It's not the time to show off, it's the time to make the right diagnosis and make the right policies. I did it when no one else was doing the medium-term program. He knows how to brag about it. However, on October 13th, you estimated inflation at 7.8% for 2011 inflation, two and a half months before the end of the year. 13 days after this estimate, the inflation report published by the Central Bank will be 8.3 per cent inflation, he said. The inflation figures were released in November, and it turns out inflation is already 9.5 percent. At the end of 2011, double-digit inflation has already been guaranteed. Your guess is not a year, not two years, not three years at all. If there are so many deviations in inflation forecasts two and a half months before the end of the year, what estimate and target of this government will we trust? In fact, we saw the day the budget you brought revealed how much confidence it gave people. Mr. Finance Minister announced the budget, devaluation exploded, the Central Bank had to intervene in the markets for the first time since 2006 by selling foreign currency directly. That's the trust your budget gave you on the day it was announced inside and out. Dear lawmakers, we'd all be very happy to see our country grow healthy, grow and create jobs and jobs, but if there's a growth that collects vulnerability in the economy, when the mill runs out of water, the earnings that are thought to have been achieved can suddenly come out of hand. I'm warning you not only because of the opposition, but because of the experience I've had. As a matter of fact, developments in Europe show that water-moving streams are about to dry out. In the United States, the appearance is not bright; some serious decisions that need to be made are no longer being made due to the upcoming elections. The government closed its eyes to vulnerability, using the car to win the election irresponsibly, at full speed. Now the brakes don't match, and the future of 74 million inside the vehicle is at risk. The high dose of warning reports on Turkey's economy has now begun to circulate in international markets every day. These reports say Turkey's high current deficit, short-term debts are being drawn into attention, emphasising the degradation of financing conditions and the lack of international reserves, increasing the chance of sudden stances in the economy. In fact, as the Republican People's Party, we've been saying this for a long time, and we've been trying to draw attention to the bad going on in the economy for a long time, but probably because we speak Turkish, the government won't listen to us. The reports I mentioned are in English. Since these reports are written in English, as in other matters, perhaps these reports will attract more attention to the government. Dear lawmakers have recently been asked to write a success story in employment and unemployment. In September, employment increased by 1,700,000 people last year. Next thing we know, 476,000 of this employment comes from agriculture, created in agriculture. Now, in your power, the fields in agriculture have decreased by 17 million acres, the production of lentils has decreased by 120,000 tonnes, the production of dry beans has decreased by 141,000 tonnes, the production of chickpeas has reduced by 153,000 tonnes, Turkey has become importing beans from Canada, anguses, chevroletes, limos have been imported by the Festival of Sacrifices. I ask: Where did 476 thousand people work when this production went down, when the fields were narrowed down, when the imports went away? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Again, a more interesting development, in the last year, the number of lawmakers, top executives and managers has increased by 184,000 people. So from every 100 jobs created in those 1,700,000 jobs created recently, 10 of them were created by lawmakers, executives and managers. Now, when you look at this number, you can't help but wonder: have you created a deep state in this country in the last year that we didn't know about it? Your employment figures do not inspire confidence. We don't find the fall in unemployment credible. Dear lawmakers, we are not happy with the number of growth and production growths in Turkey because we have recently seen that the wind can go with the flood, all together in 2009. The figure of growth of 8.2 per cent in the third quarter of 2011, despite the government and the Central Bank's statements, found that the economy could not be controlled by current policies. The levels of capacity, industrial production and current deficit show that in the last three months of 2011, the economy has been out of control. The parents are over-compensated. At the rate of his debt's income, he's raising concerns about what's going to happen if it's a hard landing. In 2002, the rate of the family's expenditureable income increased by 4.5 per cent, while in the ninth month of 2011, it folded to 10 (45 per cent) and increased to 45 per cent. In my experience here, I'd like to point out that it was the companies that owed money in the 2001 crisis. The problem has been solved relatively smoothly, such as the Istanbul approach. But now the families are in serious debt. It's a lot harder to solve in case of a sudden break in the economy. In fact, it is also possible to understand the cost and consequences of the corruption in the family's balance sheet by looking at growth that doesn't come into developed economies today and unemployment that doesn't fall. Dear lawmakers, does the government consider the risk of increasing economic momentum by the Central Future Program and the 2012 Budget Law, brought before Turkey's Grand National Assembly? Precious lawmakers, it appears that Turkey's economy will grow to over 8 per cent in 2011. In 2012, Turkey will only grow by 2%, according to the estimate of the Economic Co-operation and Development Agency, according to the estimates of the International Fund for Money. This shows that the risk of a hard landing in the economy next year has become increasingly heavy in the eyes of international organisations. However, some investment banks that bring money to Turkey say that growth may be near zero in 2012. So no matter where you look, our citizens, our companies, are going to have a hard time next year. The government never considered the global conditions that were hosted by the Central Future Program. Next year, the government assumes it will be able to finance a $65 billion current account deficit and a $135 billion debt repayment and a total of $200 billion. Economic balances are based on this gamble. It seems that if this money is unaccounted for and the economy goes down, just as you did in 2009, your excuse will be the global crisis. This time, not even the tangent. The promise will be considered unsaid. From here, I'm clearly warning you, the government is responsible for the price of pain at the end of this hard crash that leads to this braking-free departure. The AKP government has stated that it has set five basic priorities for itself in the Central Future Program. Two of these five priorities are to reduce current deficits, increase domestic savings. What's the government doing? Turkey faces the Grand National Assembly with a programme that enhances the public investment-instruction deficit. The public savings deficit increases by 0.6 points to 2.2 per cent in GDP in transition from 2011 to 2012. The state says I'll add 0.6 points to the current deficit next year. Is this how it's gonna go down? Cari doesn't fall for words. The balances indicate that you can't reduce the current deficit and that you don't understand much from this job, with all due respect. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, the government has put a word in the word of a financial discipline, and they want everyone to believe it. The increase in the budget's interest-free spending from 2007-2011 is 74.2%. Once the effects of pardons are removed, the increase in tax revenues is 59.5%. At the same time, the total income in the economy increased by 52 percent. So the expenditures increased by 22 points above the increase of national income, while the continuous tax revenues increased by only 7.5 points above economic growth. You're undermining a once-in-a-lifetime income from tax pardons and a lack of fiscal policy with taxes collected due to an unsustainable increase in imports. Dear lawmakers, there are things going on in our country that are not going to happen in a healthy democracy recently. Breaking the general principles of the law is becoming common. The powers of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey have been issued by the government in violation of the Constitution and with the support of the Constitutional Court's President. Turkey has become a country ruled by laws. Although it was a newly elected Parliament, it was used by the government, unconstitutionally, until its last day, in accordance with a law passed ahead of the general elections. You've overturned Turkish public administration with a decree of 35 laws you've issued, you've overturned Turkish government, you've removed international standards, you've eliminated major institutions overnight, you've established 11 new ministries, you've taken away officers' earned rights, you've made people unable to plan careers, you've put public employees on the street, you've nationalized the Istanbul Stock Exchange, you've made autonomous regulators and auditors look at the mouths of ministers. In order to increase our competitiveness, you got up at a time when research, development and science were most needed, making scientists who came to the Turkish Academy of Sciences with an election to be appointed without an example in the world. You've reached the pinnacle of your ambition to control all the institutions that came with the election except you. There's only one step left after that, and if you can get the national team players to sign a decree, it'll be over. [[Applause from CHP rows]] By doing all this, you've increased the risk perception of international investors. You've shown once again that you're not really aware of the situation by doing this in the days when we need to find money from the outside the most. Besides, the decrees under the law have been a cover for your unlawfulness. We've warned you many times from this stand. We said that the mid-term programme and financial plan, which initiated the budget process, were not released during the time prescribed by the law. You have violated this law yourself for years. And the next thing we know, you've made up the law against your vigilante code. You should at least have the courage to pass this arrangement through the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Dear MPs, the ruling party spokesman who spoke from this bench last year said that if the Republican People's Party came to power, it would explode, inflation would fly, interest would rise. There's a Republican People's Party in power now? What happened to 24 percent devaluation in this country over the last year? How did the interest end up in the double house? How did the loan interest come to 15 percent? How did inflation get to double digits? Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, to sum up, Turkey has been caught with the second highest current deficit in the world in a surge of crises. One by one, the government destroys the anchors of the economy. The Central Bank and the independent boards have entered the government's command. It's a zero-pronged, no-problem neighborhood with neighbors. Our exports, our tourism revenues have been hit. The world doesn't seem to be coming out of crisis fast. Unlike the past, the new wave is expected to narrow down global liquidity further.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0025par0290	I'll give you an extension, Mr. Oztrak. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0024par0292	You've made it inevitable that Turkey will crash if it doesn't find $200 billion in cash next year. On the other hand, you've sunk the public into debt. The difference between the country's debts in currency and its debts has increased from 85 billion dollars to 351 billion dollars in your power. The real sector's external position deficit has gone up to six hundred and thirty-one billion dollars. The external debt per person was $4,187, and your power increased by $2,224. So every newborn gets an eyebrow from his mother's father, and he owes $2,224 to his uncle. But the Prime Minister has found a solution, he wants three children from each family instead of reducing the external debt. Dear lawmakers, the budget and the government's current policies that we've had their final talks with have not been able to overcome these problems and will not be able to. My advice is that you should immediately turn to real fiscal discipline in public balances, an addition of a thousand to six percent of an illegitimate domestic patient. The Central Bank must immediately begin to deliver clear messages to the markets, stop standing up to the markets on its own. The Central Bank must quickly regain its trust. The economy will slow down at any cost of the populist policies you watch ahead of the election. It's the people who are in debt and the small tradesman who will be most impressed. In this framework, strengthen social support networks, particularly unemployment benefits. Run the Credit Guarantee Fund to breathe into the small tradesman. Spare me the arbitrary interference in the day-to-day functioning of the economy. Begin structural reforms that will boost competitiveness. At a time when global liquidity begins to dry, take these measures quickly to boost confidence and appeal to the economy. However, access to the needed financing will be easy and a soft landing will be achieved in the economy. Dear lawmakers, we all want this nation to live more prosperously, to look to the future with confidence. Our goal is to guide you. In this context, I sincerely hope that our criticism and proposals will be considered in the government's wing, and that the 2012 Budget Law will be a blessing and auspicious one for our nation.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0026par0298	Thank you, Mr. Oztrak.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0027par0299	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0026par0300	Mr. Kaplan, since Mr. Shandir was taunting you in his speech, you made a bet and asked for the 69th article. Two minutes, I promise, if I don't give you a new answer. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0027par0304	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in fact, I'm going to point out the three points that Mr. Shandir has finally spoken to us by mentioning our name. Mr. Şandir, I say with my party's programme and regulations: We are not discussing the flag, we are not discussing the official language, we are not discussing the borders, we are asking for a solution in the common country, and we are very clear that in Turkey we also see the accusation of separatism, which is a bit beyond the limits of conscience and compassion, and we say that the best cure for separatism syndrome is the new Constitution and democracy. Since you have these concerns, don't worry about them. Our group is Turkey, Turkey, Kurd, Suryani, all of the MPs are sitting together. To another point, I wish you knew the exact words I said about the people of Botan. All elected MPs of Şırnak, the mayors of the province were arrested, and I said that respect for the will of the people inside, respect for the vote out of the chest, is a situation where every politician should bow before him with respect. Every politician will bow to the will that comes out of the chest. Including the Prime Minister, no one has any privileges, but I'm surprised that the Prime Minister will kneel before the national will of the Botan people from the chest. I'm surprised you're acting as the Prime Minister's attorney. AK PARTY is the majority here, he doesn't need it. I mean, the press is sometimes tweezing. We can understand each other by talking, and singing our native language, our culture, our songs will not divide this country, songs, language, culture, identity.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0028par0309	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0027par0310	When we're comfortable talking about these things from this bench, there's no problem. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0028par0313	It's purposeful, thank you. We'll continue the negotiations now. [[Continue]] First word on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Diyarbakır MP Nursel Aydoğan. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Aydoğan.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0029par0324	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the general budget on behalf of the Party of Peace and Democracy. I salute you all. Before expressing our views on the budget, we received a report of an accident today on Diyarbakır-Bismil land road. 24 of our citizens were killed in this accident. I ask God's mercy to all our citizens who have lost their lives first, and to heal the wounded quickly, and to give patience and condolences to their families who remain. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, on the last day of the 2012 budget, we are making general assessments. I'd like to point out that the most striking aspect of the 2012 budget for us is that a significant portion of the budget -- some 37 percent of the budget -- is divided into this budget regarding security, security, and all the defence budgets. Turkey, of course, is a young population, a young country, 35% of national education, dear friends. In a country where the majority of the population is young, the budget for national education is 35 per cent, but the budget for all defences and security expenditures is 37 per cent in a country with a very high percentage of those who attend school from primary school to university. Moreover, there is a 7 per cent increase in defence and a full security budget this semester, dear friends. If we look at this framework, we can say that the security, security and defence budget in this budget is built up in this country to lay the groundwork for conflicting processes, and there is a war budget. Of course, as a woman, I would love to have had a peace budget in Parliament, and I would love to have our friend, who was mentioned in the name of the government, to say that Turkey's most fundamental problem, the Kurdish problem, has been solved, the democracy issues are now resolved, so there should be no more budgets in this country, and more people living in this country, to have a more prosperous life in education, health, culture, but unfortunately, we haven't met in this parliament in about 20-years, since the 90s. I would like to say that I hope and hope that the years after this will be the years when the peace budget in Turkey has been established. Dear friends, of course, it's been about nine years since the AKP came to power. Of course, what happened in Turkey is not limited to nine years. For decades, people have lost their lives in this country, and most importantly, children have lost their lives in this country. Just a week ago, a young boy named Fırat Izgi in Mardin, a fifteen-year-old boy, burned himself to death to be the voice of peace in this country. I believe our Minister of Health is here. The young man who was brought to the hospital, who was brought to Mardin State Hospital, was late due to the inability to be transferred to another hospital and, of course -- our Home Secretary is, hopefully, here -- to take a statement from a burned child. Unfortunately, our child was forced to die in Mardin State Hospital, and due to these budgets prepared in this country -- because of security, security budgets, a young man named Mustafa Mallar in Diyarbakır has burned himself to death again. Evolution was also killed by a small baby police bullet, just a year and a half, such as Mehmet Aytun, in the form of an Iron Mush, and again Ceylan Önkol, Uður Kaymaz. Here, dear friends, I'd like to express to you, in action from all of this, that this House must owe an apology to these children who lost their lives at this young age, when they were less than a year and a half of age, who lost their lives because they couldn't create a better world, a better Turkey. I apologize to all the children on my behalf for what happened, and I think that all of the MPs and first of all, the women's deputies who sat at this time, have a debt of apology from these children, and that apology must be apologized for next semester. Dear lawmakers, now, of course, the internal policy of the ruling AKP is based on capitalist, modernistic paradigm, as well as on the outside of a capitalist, modernist paradigm. The internal and foreign policy formed on the basis of this paradigm, of course, has no chance of success. As a matter of fact, the AKP government's success in both domestic and foreign policy will be one of the most controversial issues to discuss today and in the coming hours. In particular, the Prime Minister, like the AKP government's Foreign Minister, has spent almost most of his time abroad, but for the past year, especially the Middle Eastern policy has collapsed, dear friends. The policy of problems with all neighbors has begun with zero problems with our neighbors. The diplomacy established through opposition to Syria, Iran and Iraq and the PKK failed with the US Middle East project to reshape and redesign the Great Middle East as part of the U.S. Project. As part of this project in the 2002s, we know how the AKP government, which was supported by the Central East under the deployment of the moderate Islamic Project in the Middle East, also switched to US policies so that this support would not be withdrawn, and why my brother Bezar Assad had broken off his ties with Assad for this reason, and how he tried to place the missile shield in Malatya, and how he tried to drag Turkey into chaos, and why he left their relationship with Iraq, despite Iran, for the same reason he called exporting a significant part of its export to Iraq. Again, the AKP government has had great relations with authoritarian regimes and 40 years of dictatorships in the Middle East since 2002, but as part of the Great Middle East Project, dictators have been displaced by one US and their seats, dear friends. However, we see that the AKP government, unfortunately, has cut ties with these countries. Of course, international relations need to be established in our view in the framework of human rights and democracy. Of course, there will surely be relations that countries and states have established on the basis of economic interest, but we believe that there should also be a principled position and position in the relationships established. Parliamentary lawmakers are envisioning a growth of around 3-4 per cent in Turkey in 2002. We know that this growth is intended to be provided on the backs of workers and people. Again, the non-union policy is based on the lack of right to strike and the low-pay policy is based on the fulfillment of this growth goal. Unfortunately, there is no strong opposition in this country, except for Kurdish opposition, which strengthens the government's hand and is able to establish and maintain this growth by the authoritarian power of law, governance and judgment. But despite the growing economy, there is no significant difference in the welfare and life level of the people. Unemployment is literally very high and chronic. Job employment is extremely low. Payees don't get what they want without this growth. There's an unfair tax policy. It is known that it provides a strong budget that is said to be sustained by 70 per cent indirect taxes on the back of the consumer. Nowhere in the world are valuable friends, such an unfair tax system. Therefore, there is injustice in division and sharing. With privatisations -- and we can almost say that we're not privatised in Turkey -- there's no public institution left -- especially with TOKI investments, the AKP government has created an organic capital group around it, and it's seriously macheting them, so it's three or four percent growth that has brought nothing separate to the unemployed, dear friends. Congressmans, in a country where 13 million people live, unfortunately, the union rate is very low, so we can say that this is around 10%. Unfortunately, those who are organized are both restricted and not allowed to strike. Students, especially Kurdish opposition, are under pressure, thrown into prisons. So today, on December 21st, KESK and the Turkish Medical Association used a one-day strike to protest all of this, and they're in the area. From here, I salute the strikes and actions of all the workers, the public workers, who are on strike. Members of parliament, we see that the Kurdish problem, which began with the 1924 Constitution and became a gangrene, cannot be solved, it continues to hurt every day. In the last year alone, hundreds of people have lost their lives because this problem has not been solved. Deaths continue in prisons again. Our last citizen, Mehmet Aras, in Erzurum Prison, was not sent home from the hospital despite the intense initiatives of human rights organizations with cancer, and although he had cancer, unfortunately, he had to die in hospital conditions and in prison. In prisons, we still have a citizen who is on the verge of death of 111, with 18 of them heavy. We're saying the government needs to change the prison policy immediately. Congressmans, the Justice Department boasts of building huge courthouse palaces. We're all watching together that, as with operations under the name of TK, those who have been brought to trial have no sense of justice. Those arrested in this case have been in prison for three years because they can't testify in their native language alone. Now, I really want to ask the Minister of Justice what it would be like to have palaces of justice in a country where human life is nothing but a budget to keep a man alive. Let them expect no good will from us. After their statements to fight terror, and to negotiate with politics, our mayors, whose activities are open and under surveillance, the city, county executives, municipal general assembly members have been given the speed of arrests, and the number of arrested in this area has exceeded 4,000. Finally, Mr. Bashir Atalay, the Vice Prime Minister, and all military operations are coordinated within one co-ordination. All of these have been decided, planned and carried out. Within three or five days of the speech, in the morning hours of yesterday morning, institutions such as RIA, Özgür Gündem, Ethic Agency, Democratic Modernity and Day Printing have been raided, many journalists and employees have been taken into custody. In the 90s, the buildings of the free press were being torched, and now the free press workers are being arrested and detained, put in prisons, dear friends. I suppose I could point out that there are very few countries in the world with such a sense of democracy and justice. Dear friends, there are 71 journalists arrested in Turkey. We've already made it clear that we're in the early stages of the world as it is. However, for journalists arrested, the government insists that they were arrested for activities outside of journalism, not because of their profession. In our opinion, they were not arrested for illegal activities, they were only arrested because they were against AKP policies and because they didn't submit to them. Unfortunately, the AKP's approach is either to be from me or to be from across the street. Because of this approach, dear friends, those who oppose this approach are arrested and imprisoned every day, Peyderpey. That is how the execution of the sentence, which has not yet been issued, is carried out in the long term of imprisonment. Dear MPs, in the country of the Prime Minister who tried to teach democracy to the world, Mehmet Uytun in Şırnak, a one-and-a-half-year-old, was killed by a police bullet; Halil İbrahim Oruç, a boy who was killed by police bullets in Bismil, on 18 April; and still Halil İbrahim Oruç; there is no work by the Ministry of Interior; again, Ceylan Ön Ökol was murdered in this way; Uğur Kaymaz, John Menekse Şırnak, again, when a child was killed by police in Haqari. E. When he was shot in the head by the police and went into a coma, the Minister for Family and Social Policy didn't say a word, and the Interior Ministry didn't do any work on finding the perpetrators. In Hakkari Çukurca again, the Interior Minister did not respond to claims that 36 PKK members were killed by chemical weapons in Kazan Valley, but the Assembly did not have any work done on the investigation. You know, using chemical weapons is a crime of humanity, which is probably a good practice of our government in our country of advanced democracy. Dear lawmakers said there would be no Kurdish problem if you did not think about a question asked in Moscow in 2004. The Minister of Interior, appointed today, says similar things: I went, searched, couldn't find the Kurdish problem, I didn't see it in health, nor in education. If there is no Kurdish problem, why are hundreds of thousands of soldiers and tens of thousands of police deployed in the region? Today the AKP is trying to suppress the demands of the people who want freedom and democracy with police terrorism in the region, dear friends. I'm curious to know how much of the Home Secretary's budget goes to gas bombs for this. I also think it is a matter which should be explained by the Ministry of Internal Affairs that the people of Turkey, as a result of the gas bombs, lost the lives of our member of the province's General Assembly, Yıldırım Ayhan, and many others, and I know that the public of Turkey, in Turkey, also has that kind of expectation. But the so-called security and security budget could be reserved for education, dear friends. He's on the receiving end of a charge of teaching in the area. Teachers, who have just graduated from school, have been appointed under the name of a temporary teacher in the region, even though they have not been given a degree or a master's degree. Instead, we have thousands, tens of thousands of college graduates waiting in line. I hope and wish that the AKP government will bring some sort of solution to its problems by tasking our friends as soon as possible. Dear friends, the struggle for freedom of women is the struggle for freedom and democracy of all mankind. It is not possible for mankind to be truly free and to have a free world before women are liberated. The first edition, exploitation and abuse were carried out by men on women. The state-industrial system is shaped as a male-dominated system. This reality, shaped by slavery, oppression, and abuse, cannot be eliminated until she is liberated. Thus, women's freedom is not only about women, but about the whole community. In Turkey, however, I regret to say that society is having a moral and spiritual erosion. Attacks by the male sovereign state and the government, to the right to live, from political rights to the right to live, are the result of a rape mentality. I can point out that the AKP government has made positive legal and constitutional changes to women's massacres, murders, violence against women. However, N. C. As seen in the case and recent months in the case of Fevziye Genghis who had been beaten up in İzmir police station in the past month, it appears that a change of mentality has not yet been achieved in Turkey. One of the important reasons why this change of mind has not been achieved, dear friends, is that I think the conservative paradigm of the AKP. Dear lawmakers, the 2012 budget is not a social-sex-sensitive budget. No ministry's budget includes a budget for women's policies. The ruling party, which has 326 MPs, has only one female minister in the government. The number of women involved in the parliamentary commissions also reveals a mental state of mind. Now, that mentality is the male-dominated mentality of dear friends. Members of parliament, the parliament currently has a consensus on the agenda of all the social communities and democratic forces living in Turkey that a new constitution is necessary. However, all social communities are confused as to how the AKP government will make a democratic constitution. According to us, the government wants to make the Constitution fit in with its own mentality. Because he goes everywhere and claims there's an advanced democracy in Turkey. He's just saying that there are some flaws in the application, that there are flaws. A mentality that says it's an advanced democracy is an obstacle to the construction of democratic constitution, but it patches up some of the places it sees as lacking in its own way. In Turkey, however, it is clear that there are issues of democracy that need to be resolved, such as the very radical Kurdish problem. If this constitution does not contain the solution to these problems, there will never, ever be a new constitution, dear friends. A democratic constitution cannot be made according to a party's political power in Parliament. The basic democratic rights of every small and large community must be recognised. What is your size to a social community that you want so much rights that you can never be called it? The mentality that says that is not democratic. It's an undemocratic authoritarian mentality, dear friends, to say that the strong can crush the weak and the weak can accept what the great one says. An ethnic, religious, and social community may have a political power in society and its reflection in parliament may be 5%. If you speak to such a person as much as a thousand, can you call it a right as your number? The mentality of those who can say, "Request the rights to the extent that Turkey will agree to is no different from that mentality, dear friends. The AKP and those around it, under the thought hegemony of the sovereign nation mentality, should know that this imposition cannot be accepted. The answer to that, of course, is that it's too late for them to be called the market of the past, we'll reverse it. The term "Alavere," the most common phrase in society, the deception, the Kurdish Mehmet watch." The answer to that, of course, is that it's too late for them. The Prime Minister says this country belongs to all of us. But he speaks of one nation with emphasis, rejecting the rights of other peoples living within Turkey. If the existence of Kurds and other communities will not be publicly recognized, if the political will and self-government of Kurds and other communities will not be recognized, then Turkey cannot be the common homeland of everyone, dear friends. The Prime Minister is always one nation. He's acting in monogamous rhetoric, such as one country, one language. One nation. The speech of the Kurdish language states that the identity of the Kurds in the Constitution and the laws and the demand for the native language will not be accepted. And to the Prime Minister who insists on the one country, we insist that our response, friends, is free union in the common country. Members of parliament, we believe that the AKP should stand up publicly and share this with the public, just as the AKP thinks of a constitution. The Kurdish problem is also a constitutional problem. The 1924 Constitution is the one that created the Kurdish problem. This Constitution, 1924, is a constitution that has been established as a result of Kurds being kept out of the system by left and political Islamists. Whereas, now we're looking at the AKP, dear friends, who claim that once he enters the system, the problems of democracy are over and Turkey is democratised. And that, my dear friends, is his idea of a Muslim and a Democrat. Congressmans, dozens of dams are being built all over the region. We know why new dams, such as Hasankeyf, were made to destroy cultural and historical heritage. The construction of dams in the region is more about the Kurdish problem than increasing electricity production. All of the valleys of the region, all of the settlements, are planned to be left under water. So an important geography, and a productive geography, is sought to be inhumanized. Instead of studying the region as a whole, it may be enough for us to assess the subject. Dear friends, my class has already been cleared for years with military, social, economic, cultural policies. It's probably a province where the population of the population lives outside of its own territory. The remaining population will also be destroyed by these new dams, dear friends, and thus the demographic balance of Dersim. Of course, it's not only the population of the Dersim. It's also the destruction of Alevi culture, dear friends. Dams are natural and cultural massacres. The people of the Black Sea are against the HESECs because of the natural slaughter. It means a valuable awareness, dear friends. Neither the people of the Black Sea nor any other people living in Turkey want HES (of their own geography) any more. The AKP government, unfortunately, gives the public the good news of the places to do with the HESEs, while the people are against the HESEs. There is no doubt that there is an energy shortage in Turkey. But our humble advice to the AKP government would be to create more natural energy sources for this country than for HES (as well as for nuclear power plants). Dear friends, the process we've experienced so far has made society a consumer society. But at the same time, poverty is so serious that the World Bank's policy of managing poverty has been put into effect in Turkey. While the notion of being a social state was largely eliminated, the only way to manage poverty was with a state of handouts. Now, the government's approach today is not a social state approach, but a charitable state approach. This policy is an IMF policy that the AKP government, which divided its path with the IMF in 2008, even though its paths were divided. This policy is to make the people poor, feed them, and bind them to themselves. This policy is an important factor in the AKP's ability to get 50 per cent of the vote in this country, so the basic rights of the citizen are bonded into alms, friends. Today, the taxes collected by the people in Turkey, we don't know how many of them go to the militant funds, dear friends. We know that one of the important duties of this House is to be audited on behalf of the public, how taxes are being spent on the public. Therefore, I say that the budgets of the next ministries should be more transparent and manageable, and that this Assembly should express a will in this regard. Dear friends, I'm running out of time. I, once again, wish that the budget we have prepared would be the cause of peace, democracy, freedom in Turkey, and the public's budget. From now on, I wish that the budgets we're going to make in this country will be a peace budget, and we'll give you all one more chance to... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0030par0368	Thank you, Mr. Aydoğan. Now, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Iğdır MP and Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Pervin Buldan, second speaker. Here you go, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0031par0372	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I beg Allah's mercy to our citizens who died in a car accident in Bismil district of Diyarbakır, and to their relatives for immediate healing. Mr. President, I would like to present you with the views of the Peace and Democracy Party on the entire 2012 Central Management Budget Bill. As I begin my speech, I salute the General Assembly. Governments plan their budgets, considering the needs of society, and organise them for social, cultural and economic purposes, in line with the political goals of running them. Therefore, the budget programme owned by the AKP government is a mirror to its political goals and activities. As with all the budget talks I've been involved in during the two legislatures, unfortunately the 2012 budget has been put in front of us as a result of the political understanding, and because of that, the budget is not based on the power of its own people, so it is not arranged to look out for the interests of the people. This budget, prepared as a lack of political understanding based on democracy, science and law, social state understanding and freedom, has no names for employees, poor people, women and children; there is no resource reserved for disadvantaged parts of society, and there is continued to be inter-agency inequality between institutions and regions. In addition, the resources that are reserved for areas such as health, education, and justice, which are essential to society, are naturally limited to limited amounts for a state that is constantly threatened by it. As a state structure taking power from the existence of internal and external enemies, the Republic of Turkey has again divided its revenues and future resources into lion's interest in defence and security costs. The defence budget has been increased by 7.4 per cent this year for no reason. Moreover, spending on this part of the budget is left in the dark. As has been done during all ruling times so far, unlimited spending from covered funds during the AKP administration has been a secret. When it comes to weapons, tanks, cannons, human-human fighter planes and operations, budget revenues from the back of the people can be spent to the end and without account. The absence of these expenditures should not be seen is not the kind that will be accepted in democratic law states. In terms of budget transparency, Turkey is behind Uganda and Zambia. The unsubstantiated resources are unaccounted for; at least, even if they are explained, this statement is not made to us members of the Republic of Turkey. Even if it can be explained to the United States and to NATO, this information is closed to us and also to the Court. The Ministry of National Defense, for example, feeds on two different sources, other than its share in the budget. One is a source of Turkish Armed Forces under the name "Modernization" and the other is a share of the Defence Industry Fund. The General Command's budget is separate. In addition, the Ministry budget can be cut for defence spending if needed. This money is transferred to the Ministry of National Defense. Despite the middle numbers, the economic cost of an operation remains a state secret. In addition, military foundations and associations established in various names are also used to fund arms. The Turkish Armed Forces, equipped with a special power such as the state within the Adeta state, are the only military in the world with holdings. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been carried out 26th in operations across the border this year. So how much does these operations cost to our economy? Can we learn the cost as the primary elements of Parliament, which legalises the budget, which is accepted as this place of democracy? No. Well, why, isn't this a democratic law state? The contrast between these two situations is based on what just cause? In particular, the principle of transparency is that defence and security expenditures are subject to a separate application within the budget. This government's former Finance Minister, Mr. Unakitan, said that you can't see the economic signatures of any operation in the budget. We later learned by Mr. Cemil Cicek that since 1984, the government has spent 300 billion dollars fighting the PKK. So, unfortunately, we see that this year's budget accounts have been prepared with unsupervised and hidden accounts to throw away more billions of dollars. Therefore, it is not possible for us to call this budget a blessing. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are the 14th country in the world, with 17 billion in arms spending, in the ranking of the purchase party. At this point, there is no telling how much of the budget is reserved for arming in Turkey, who has the arms sector in Turkey, who has decided what kind of weapons Turkey needs; who, where, what kind of purchases they make; what institutions are the brokers; how they lobby, and how much commissions they get. We're never fully aware of how much the National Department of Defense has been spent on non-infinity resources and the expense of goods and services. Because these issues are defined as state secrets, and inspections are forbidden to discuss them. Again, the costs of Turkish Armed Forces personnel, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Justice, are well above the staff costs of ministries. However, the expense pens of these expenses are still unknown. While the salaries of governors, professors, undersecretaries are publicised, officers' salaries, additional payments and compensations are not included in comparison tables. In short, for the past 40 years, Turkish Armed Forces have been outside the scope of all goods, expenditures and savings, politics, law and civil control. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, of course, are showing very severe consequences for our country. Who's paying the price? Our people, whose lives we make more difficult for them every day by politicians. Here's the OECD report. Turkey says that you are the leader of unemployment, poverty, and income injustice. Again, Turkey has a place in the ranks of corruption that cannot be overlooked. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it is the greatest injustice to this community to waste budget revenues from the hard taxes and labor of our people to fill the pouches of arms dealers. These people need a standard of human dignity before a weapon, before a bomb. He needs a job where he can survive and serve his country. He needs scientific education, qualified health care. Justice is needed in this country. There is a need for a proper judgment to bring justice, and there is a need for a country in which there are no more bombs on the streets of these people, where guns don't drop their children into the ground at a young age, where peaceful life reigns. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the King of Epir, the Greek Pyrrhos, declared war on Italy in 280 B.C.E., and won the war. As a result of the war, only 15 of Pyrrhos' army of 10,000 remained. The result of this bloody victory, Pyrrhos says: "My God, don't give me such victories again. " Yes, precious deputies, Pyrrhos declared that he didn't want bloody victories, two hundred and eighty years ago, but it is tragic that mankind has not been able to free himself from the bloody grip of war for thousands of years. Our land has become a painful home because of the dirty war that has been going on for 40 years. For forty years, sons, daughters, and thousands of lives each, sons and sisters have fallen to the ground. I'm asking: who else is winning this war but the arms dealers? Who can say that this country was saved because of this war? Who's to say you're safe when you're sitting in the park, walking down the street because of this war? Who can say that his stomach is full, that his heart is warm, except for the merchants of war, in this war, which is being stolen from the labor of the people? This state, this government, is getting more and more dirty in this dirty war spiral that it's stuck in. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, each barrel has two sides, one actually kills its victim, and the other one kills the person who pulls the trigger. This war has made this state so cruel that all sorts of crimes against humanity have been committed in this country. We've suffered tragedy at its most, and we've witnessed this tragedy at the same time. Here, just last week, at the Human Rights Commission, a grieving father explained how his daughter's body was torn apart by the armed forces of the state. The truth is, it's hard to even listen to this story, but it's more serious than the fact that we have thousands of citizens in this geography with this inhuman story.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0032par0390	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the standing MPs, the standing MPs, if you don't listen, I'm going to have to ask you to the lobby. I invite you to rest. Here you go, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0031par0392	The war has turned this state into such a monster that it wants to gouge its eyes out, its feet, its ears out as it swallows the citizen of the state, and I insist it has done this to thousands, thousands of our citizens and thousands of our citizens, and the AKP government has taken over these practices, and 2011 is still going on. What happened to the funerals, which lost their lives in the conflict, shows how violent even the funerals were. Citizens of this country cry out in pain that when they go to pick up their children's funerals, they experience a total violence. According to reports by NGOs in Çukurca district of Hakkari, the bodies of guerrillas alleged to have been killed by Turkish Armed Forces by chemical weapons have been kept in Malatian Forensic Medicine morgue for weeks, and the funerals have been unrecognizable according to family information. Many of them were described as missing their heads, and the funerals that were completely burned were not identified by their relatives. We don't want to watch any more violent pictures of government politics that haven't been satisfied with killing and killing for 80 years. In Europe, fascist regimes breathed their last breath, and the era of dictators around the world is closing. In our country, the state mindset hasn't lost anything to its tyranny in 80 years. It has been decades since the violence of a classed Kurdish officer who posed for the camera with his head cut off. The state's security forces, JITEM and gangs continued to pose with severed heads and limbs. The age of violence has never been shut down in this geography. Any insult to the death of Kurdish children is being done. Guerilla funerals are being torn apart in an inhuman way, exposed, and buried in an orphan's grave without permission for the fulfillment of any religious obligation. However, even though the inhabitants of this land are often seen, there are certain practices that even the dead deserve, such as being allowed to be buried without harming the integrity of the body and handing it over to their relatives. This approach is the need to be human. All religions command it, and all good moral teachings require it. Mr. President, we're negotiating the 2012 budget. We're also going to enter the year of the 2012 legislature with new constitutional studies. At least that's what the government says, and we're looking forward to it. So why a new constitution? Because we all feel deeply that Turkey can't move forward with the current Constitution, because the country is getting the mother lode of its insolution from this Constitution. This Constitution is illegitimate and antidemocratic with all its organs, and it has a fascist character. But when we look at political developments and the actions of the government, we see that a free-based social project has not been developed. On the contrary, the government is avoiding the effort to speed up antidemocratic practices and create a suitable ground for the construction of a democratic constitution. The newspaper Le Monde sums up Turkey with the title of "Arab Spring," Turkish Autumn. With current applications, an empire of horrors is created. The age of Recep Tayyip Erdogan was McCarthy. The detention and arrest operations conducted as of today in Turkey remind of the history of McCarthy, a black mark of American democracy. Thousands of our citizens, who have a stone mark on their hands, who are communist relatives, who are politicians in the plain plains, who are protesting against the government, who are walking against the HESESTs, who have a picture of Mahir Teaan, who are reading the books of Marx, Engels, who read the books on the left, who are not on the right, who are not on the right, who don't briefly swear, are being taken into custody. The mayor, MP, academic, lawyers, journalists and students have been locked up in prisons, where the number of terrorists has been determined to be 13,000. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to ask the members of the government: Is democracy just about voting at the polls? How possible is it to talk about democracy in a country where opponents are trying to be destroyed? As you well know, politics is not just an official procedure in the House, Congressman. Politics can be done wherever human beings are, in school, in the park, in the street, anywhere. Do you have any idea what you're going to do to this country if you try to put every protestor who's organized and acted in a political way? In no time in the history of the republic, including the period of coups, no government has ever made so many political arrests. The Supreme Courts, the DGMs, the special authorities today work to carry out the same function. In the days of our government, the period of the '90s was closed. Look at the practices of your own time, how do you differ from the practices of the '90s? At the time, Kurdish lawmakers had been thrown out of parliament and thrown into prison, and now they were not allowed to enter parliament in the first place. You stole the people's will, without ever having experienced the embarrassment of being allowed to blush in front of 90 thousand voters and 80 million people in front of Turkey, and a person who has not had the slightest bit of political morality sat with great appetite for this stolen office. Our problem, of course, is that this individual is not in need of political virtue, but the government has the obligation to prevent such raw political extortion, so publicly that it has a responsibility not to bring law to its knees. Mr. President, good lawmakers, it is absolutely inevitable that a country that has not created the justice system and the judicial system will fill the prisons of a country that works according to the will of the government. From every court decision given every day, the smell of corruption of justice is spreading. As if he had an itch on his eye, for reasons that he didn't have, the judge, rapists, torturers, human criminals and murderers who locked our young, political, and thinkers in prisons with no reason at all. Not one of the perpetrators of 17,000 recent murders in this country has been convicted. The killers of 17,000 murders are in public. Furthermore, the court has ruled that these murders are abstract. Thousands of murders waiting to be illuminated according to the judgment are abstract claims. When the allegations became abstract, a few days ago, Abraham Hawk and his men were left behind. That's how sad Turkish justice is. The state of the judgment that has been long waiting for justice, as I have for years, is so pathetic. What are you going to do, Mr. Prime Minister, who sheds tears for those who lost their lives in the coup of September 12th, explaining to the cameras that there has been a massacre in Dersim? Don't you know that this state has not limited its violence to September coup and Dersim. This state is full of 80 years of historic massacres, and none of which have been brought to light, none of which have been accounted for yet. Ninety thousand innocent people were murdered in my class. And I'm sorry if I have to put my foot down on the side of a polemix at a city council meeting. It's not something to be taken lightly. The number of those executed in the Imperial Courts exceeded the number of people who died in the Battle of Salvation. The Sheikh Sait uprising, where 16,000 people were killed, 337 villages were burned, and his leader was roped into the square of Diyarbakır, rests in our memories. Thousands slaughtered in Ağrı, blood spilled to Zilan Creek, Greeks killed in the 6-7 September events and exiled in the massacre of Maraş, lives slaughtered in Sivas, and many other organised state massacres in our social memory. None of them were punished. The government, of course, will pay for this bloody history one day. Dealing with his past is a historical imperative for states. Even if it's not in your era, this confrontation will surely take place, but know this, Prime Minister: The people responsible for thousands of unsolved murders, the burning of thousands of villages will now judge you because they are still in charge of their work and living in their homes. This state will also have to answer for cruel acts such as unjust executions, violations of rights, acts of good children, violence and arrest terror at funerals during your administration. All the rulers are leaving their reigns one day, Mr. Prime Minister, only what they've added to humanity, what they've done to their people. Come, stop being a link to the centuries-old bloody policies of this state, face your people, this land has been awaiting justice, justice, equality and peace for a century. You have all the resources of this state. Turn your course from the war, from the slaughter. Enough about burying our children. Let no more pain be added to the suffering of those who set their children's bodies on fire just to be the voice of peace. Do you realize you're taking Turkey to disaster with pressure, detention, intimidation, operations, thousands of detentions, arrests? Those who wage war against the Kurdish people under the pretext of fighting terror will lose. The worst situation for a politician, a leader is being a Kurdish enemy. The Kurdish problem is not the problem of terrorism. Those who accuse primary language education, identity, culture, pluralistic cultural life as terrorism are oblivious, awaiting solutions to the Kurdish problem with historical, sociological, political, social, cultural identity problems. I say the path to peace, the path to democratic solution is through reconciliation and dialogue, and I want to finish my words with a poem that we all yearn for, which has been read on this stand many times: I want the country, The sky shall be blue, and the branch shall be green, and the field shall be yellow; Let the birds be the land of the flowers. I want a country, No sorrow at first, no longing at heart; Let the brother fight finally come to an end. I want a country, No rich, no poor, no difference between you and me; Let everyone have their homes on the winter day. I want a country, Live, like love, from the heart; And if there be a complaint of death, I say unto you, I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0033par0416	Now, on behalf of the groups, Giresun MP for the Justice and Development Party Group and Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Nurettin Canikli. Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0034par0419	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, first of all, I salute you all. I also ask God's mercy to 25 of our citizens who died in a car accident in Diyarbakir today, and I offer my condolences to their families, and on the other hand, the government of France, the French authorities, for this insane step and the work. Yes, dear friends, today is the final talks of the central budget of 2012. It's a really long process. As part of its preparation, Turkey has put a lot of work into the Grand National Assembly and the Commission, as part of its talks on the General Assembly. Many of our friends have expressed, expressed their opinion, their opinion. Of course, I'd like to thank all of our friends who contributed to his arrival, especially to the Ministry of Finance officials, who, of course, contributed to all the political parties in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our friends, members of the Plan and Budget Commission, and all my fellow MPs who contributed to the General Assembly. Dear friends -- our friends have actually expressed -- budget negotiations are important arenas, not only for power, but also for opposition. So when budget talks are being held, of course, the government's work is criticized, it's found that they can't do what they do, they share their opinion about it, but it's also a place of opposition against our nation, so it should be. Of course, when you're criticizing the opposition, and you've got your own side of it, you've got your flaws, but on the other hand, they're also very important areas to share their future projections with the public, to reveal their vision, their windows, arenas, if they're used. Now, of course, dear friends, there's a lot going on in budget talks, a lot of numbers going around. As a method, you can also make evaluations from here, so we've done it so far. So we're trying to figure out a more micro-based method, and we're trying to figure out the applications, the results in the economy. In fact, I was going to use a similar method today, but especially after Mr. Shandir's explanation and request, I had to at least change it. This is the request of Mr. Shandır. You always take the past, 2002, you compare it, you do it over the years; you always compare it with the past, you make this assessment within yourself.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0035par0424	The future...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0034par0425	Don't do that, compare Turkey with other countries. For example, compare it with the EU countries, compare it with the United States. I don't even know if you can afford it. I mean, we're not going to break Mr. Shandir now. Since Mr. Shandır had such a request, I'm happy to make some changes to start with. Of course, we'll do other comparisons, other assessments, but first, I'll compare Turkey with the EU countries, Mr. Shandır, as you requested. After that, it may be necessary, in part, to travel to our past, to our history, to, of course, stay in the economic lane, and, of course, not deviate from the core of today's debates. Now, of course, dear friends, we're discussing the 10th budget today, and it seems that, hopefully, the EC PARTY governments will complete the 13th budget. Of course, first of all, we express our gratitude to our trusted nation, the nation who gave us the honor and the opportunity to discuss the 10th budget in a row, because this is not a very common situation in Turkish political history. So it's not uncommon for a government or a political party to budget for ten years in a row -- thirteen years in a row -- and to argue around here. So this is where we express our gratitude to the nation that has brought us this honor. Dear friends, as I just said, of course now, how is Turkey run, how is the economy run? That's the main issue we're discussing, the first part, the government's concern, the government's concern. Opposition, we're trying to answer that question correctly. I mean, really, how does Turkey manage economically? Many methods can be put forth to answer this question, from micro-controversies, from micro-numbers, and from opinion can be obtained and shared with the public. And as I said a little bit earlier -- I'll share my views with you in a whole approach, but with all these discussions, there's an indispensable mechanism, there's a method, what's that? It's a comparison. You say the numbers, you say the numbers, it's like this, it's like this, it's like this. It's like unemployment, it's exports, it's imports. You say that, but it doesn't mean much. Yes, exports are 8.8. What does that mean? To get an idea, you have to compare it to something. So if there's success or failure, it has to be compared to a dynamic assessment of these numbers. If that comparison can't be done or... it's unlikely that a non-compatible assessment will produce a healthy result. So we're going to compare it to the world, compared it to the world's developed economies, and we're going to do it by comparing it to the world's advanced economies, naturally. So you've always done it with the inside, with the past, with 2002, with the present; these are not very contributing; go out and compare them with them. Yes, we will. Dear friends, you know, there's a global crisis that started in late 2008 and 2009, a global crisis, a crisis that affects the world, and its effects continue. Now, Turkey has equal conditions in terms of the potential for exposure to this crisis compared to liberal economies. Why? Because we don't have protection, it's a liberal economy. So, naturally, the economy of Turkey is affected if there is a problem anywhere in the world, if there is a development, like the German economy, all these channels are open, like all countries that have been liberalised, free market economy, such as the British economy. In this regard, Turkey, like all liberal economies, is equal in terms of exposure to this crisis, as are all countries, there is no difference in that sense. So because of this crisis, Turkey did not create a special protection measure, a security mechanism, it preserved whatever the code of economics required and continued to walk on that line. So that comparison would be meaningful if you looked at it that way. They and those countries have been exposed to this crisis, they've dealt with it, Turkey has dealt with it, we're equal in that way. Now look, of course, as a result of this crisis or as of this point, many countries have taken certain measures, all economies on the line. The European Union's economies, the United States, other emerging markets, and Turkey have taken some measures. Now, sometimes comparisons can be more meaningful based on the result. Since we are competing in equal conditions and equal lanes, it is logical to make an assessment of the results, be permanent, and provide an opportunity to make a healthy assessment. Now, therefore, before we make this assessment, we will compare the measures EU economies take -- the measures they have to take due to the crisis -- and the measures Turkey must take. First, we start with Germany. The engine of the EU is one of the most powerful economies in the European Union, even one of the most powerful economies in the world. Due to this crisis, the measures he took in 2011: Germany is down 2.5 per cent on government officials' salaries. The premiums paid to civil servants every year are frozen. By 2014, it reduces the number of public servants to 14,000, so it terminates 14,000 officers. Aids to new families are cut off, the state's contribution to unemployment insurance is reduced to zero. You know, in this kind of organization, the government contributes, and the workers contribute. The number of soldiers on the payroll is reduced from 190 thousand to 150,000. Reduction of maternity leave. The training of 60,000 people raised in military schools for the National Service of Germany is gradually terminated and a special tax for nuclear energy is being brought in. These are the measures taken by Germany. Britain: The added value tax rate is increased from 17.5 per cent to 20 per cent. Profit tax, income tax, increased from 18 per cent to 28 per cent. The budget funds for public institutions, all public institutions, have been cut by 25 per cent. Queen II. Elizabeth's salary was frozen until 2015. The work of 300,000 officers will be gradually terminated. Yes, you didn't hear wrong, the work of 300,000 public servants in England will be gradually terminated. As for Austria, the family allowance period for children studying in higher education is reduced from twenty-six to twenty-four. Children looking for a job between 18 and 20 years of age are completely cut off from family support. As of three children, additional family allowance paid to multi-child families is being completely eliminated. Taxes on fuel are being increased. Many Austrian consulates abroad are being shut down. Military expenditures are being reduced. The terms of retirement are being aggravated in Austria. It makes it difficult to borrow back to retire. The approval and acceptance and application of applications for disability allowance is being difficult. Judicial fees are being increased. The number of officers is being reduced. In parallel with the public, the other, more or less Germany and England, Austria also lay off some of the officers. There are serious cuts in education expenses. Some investment projects are being suspended, including highway projects. There's a raise on cigarettes. Bank taxes are being increased. There's extra taxes on air transport, tickets. Interestingly, the 12.5 per cent tax from the interest revenues of the foundations is increased to 25 per cent, folding up to 2. These are the measures taken in Austria due to the crisis. France: Medical expenses are being reduced. Rental assistance for the underprivileged is being severely reduced. Very important cuts are being made in the finances of the ministries, in the budgets of all ministries. I mean, there's less money being sent to the ministries than there was last year. The government's telecommunications spending is being restricted. Work is being done to reduce the number of public personnel significantly, planned, so it's more or less accepted in France, as well. Full pension is raised from sixty-five to sixty-seven. For officers, the pensions are gradual... so the pension privileges between employees and civil servants are being completely eliminated, so they're being reduced. The current expenditures in the budget will be reduced to 10 per cent per year without interruptions in three years. Local authorities -- municipalities and local governments -- are being cut down on the budget, nominally reduced. Taxes on alcohol, tobacco, and beverages are being increased. Taxes from the property have been raised from 16 to 19 percent. Capital gains and dividends of income are being increased over real estate. These measures are being taken in France. Portugal: Increased value value tax, income tax, institutional tax. Sources from the central budget to municipalities, to local governments are being cut down. Government officials' year-end and holiday bonuses are being eliminated. Work hours in the private sector are increased by half an hour a day. That's one of the most interesting measures. The bonuses paid to all workers are reduced by 50%. The tax on electricity and gas bills has been raised from 6 per cent to 23 per cent, dear friends in Portugal. Public transports -- the price of cars -- have been raised substantially. All the extra payments to retired officers have been cancelled. Some high-speed train projects and highway projects are being delayed. Spain: Their pensions have been frozen until an uncertain date, so their pensions will not be raised or paid in Spain. The 2500 euros for those who have children have been removed. Investment funds have been dropped. Public employees' salaries have been reduced by 5%. Medical expenses have been reduced. There have been serious cuts in the field of education. Teachers' weekly hours have been cut out of 18 hours and 20 hours. There are also talks that half the teachers will lose their jobs in Spain and are being discussed in the Spanish press, intensively. Ireland: Officers' salaries have been reduced. Some of the public employees are being laid off. Aids to multi-child families are being cut off. The unemployment benefit is being reduced. College tuition is being increased. Medical expenses are being reduced. Agriculture, Transport and Environment Ministry funds are being cut down. The education costs are being reduced. The last two countries remain, Italy and Greece, and I will share them with you: Italy: By 2013, the public sector has frozen wages, frozen all wages. Retirement age has risen. The added value tax rate has been raised from 20 per cent to 23 per cent. The obligatory consumption tax was raised from 4 per cent in food to 6 per cent in other areas, from 10 per cent to 12 per cent in other areas. Taxes on the vehicle have been increased. Real estate taxes were recently removed, and they were reinstated. There have been serious cuts in budget spending. These are the measures taken in Italy. We need to listen to this, guys, 'cause we're gonna be commenting on this in a little while. Finally, measures that must be taken due to the crisis in Greece are: value value tax has been raised from 19 per cent to 23 per cent. Retirement pensions are cut by about 20 percent, reduced, reduced. The income tax rate has been raised. Of the 300,000 civil servants, 180,000 are being backed up -- it's being done gradually to end its work -- in the first plan, and in the first phase, 14,000 have been terminated. One per cent and five per cent of the household's income receive an extraordinary tax -- two years -- in 2011 and 2012. Real estate taxes are being raised. Indirect taxes on gasoline, cigarettes, and alcohol have been raised by a third. Officers' salaries have been reduced by 20%. The workers' salaries at the OSCE have been reduced by 30 per cent. All temporary public sector workers are being rescinded, so we have 4/C, 4/B. In Greece, the contracts of the 4/C/C/C/C and all of the 4/B/B are being annulled, so they're being kicked out. Public investments are reduced, health expenditures reduced, social security spending reduced. Yes, now look, what Europe is taking, let's say, in a lot of countries around the world, almost all of them, is predicting similar measures. When you categorize them, they have one thing in common: One: Once there's a very serious decrease in social allowances, all social expenses. In all the stages that we can call social spending, there's been a very serious reduction in all dimensions. Two: pensions are either frozen or reduced. In addition, public employees' salaries have been frozen and a very serious number of officers are terminated, so pensioners, civil servants, unemployed, small incomes, all of their incomes are reduced; public employees' salaries are frozen or reduced, some social rights are taken back.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0036par0446	Mr. Canikli, you'll come to Turkey, won't you?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0034par0447	I've just tried to make it clear that the working hours, one of the most important, most sensitive areas for employees, are now increasing working hours in the private sector in Europe. Public products are raised, serious rates are raised, electricity, natural gas. Again, their common feature is that all these measures, public investments and other expenditures, investments are being reduced, investment projects are being suspended. And growth rates are being revised by revising down, so it's being seriously revised to 1 percent, on average 1%, on the two percent, on the other side. And a significant portion of those countries that have never used IMF resources, who do not have to make an arrangement with the IMF, are now lining up from the IMF to use resources. And in a little while, we're going to do them in detail. Yes, Mr. Shandir, that's what Europe does.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0037par0449	What are we doing, what is Turkey doing?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0034par0450	So since you said so, I'm going to make this comparison. So, what's going on in Turkey, dear friends? We're in the same period, we're in the same environment, we have the same crisis, so in that sense, there's no difference between us. Yes, when social spending is reduced in Europe, when people are being removed, pensions are frozen and reduced, we, dear friends, are discussing the settlement of the initiative as well as the increase in inflation on our pensions. Isn't that right, dear friends? While Europe reduces pensions, freezes pensioners, we give pensioners a serious real boost in inflation. And right now, our Ministry is working on a solution to the years-old problem of attitude. Hopefully, in the coming days, in the coming months, we'll talk about it in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This needs to be noted. Europe makes them, we make them. As the European officer freezes and reduces his salaries, we continue to give additional increases to officers over inflation. As Europe's tens of thousands of officers lay off the workers, Turkey, we are talking about how many thousands we can hire or how many thousands will be taken in 2012. So we're talking about the publicization of 90, 100,000 people in 2012. As Europe throws out hundreds of thousands of people, officers, workers, Turkey, our government, we're talking about it. We're talking about 90 thousand, 100,000 officers in 2012, dear friends. Don't you think any of this means anything? So these are nothing? The countries we're compared to are the most powerful countries in the world, the most powerful economies in Europe, almost all in this position now. They're really very troubled, and we all live in the same place, we live in the same world, Germany lives in the same place, Turkey lives in the same place, they don't live in space. So it's impossible to ignore that, dear friends.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0038par0454	What's the minimum wage there, what's the minimum wage here?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0034par0455	That should be appreciated, too, so it can be difficult. If Europe is talking about the tens of thousands of hiring officials, the most advanced economies in Europe should be thanked for this economic administration, dear friends. That's right. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) This is the right and the right must be delivered.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0039par0456	You can also hire those who have been laid off in Europe!
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0040par0457	Please, Mr. Lawmakers, I'd like to ask you...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0034par0458	Look, Europe -- one by one I've just transmitted -- while suspending highway projects, fast train projects, our Transport Minister has informed and explained that we are moving to knit Turkey on highways and fast train networks, my dear friends. That's the difference. Almost all of Europe has suspended such important projects, and we continue to grow at an increasing rate. They're all reduced health expenses, all of Europe. The opportunities that have been provided so far have largely disappeared, but we continue to increase health expenditures at a very serious rate. Everyone accepts that the transformation is an incredible form of reform. Because of the 50th year of talks or work of the first German migration, I went to Germany. The citizens we met there, our relatives, our workers, almost all of our citizens leaving as workers have a common wish, dear friends; perhaps they've found a way to transfer it to you and all of our friends; they all want to return to Turkey with certainty. Why? That's what this is about. I mean, all of a sudden, ten years ago, 20 years ago, 30 years ago, did you guys have anything like this? If you had told a German worker that 20 years ago, he should have returned to Turkey, he would have taken it as an insult. Why? Because socially given social opportunities, services provided, health care, education, whatever field you look at, Turkey is glowing, shining like a star, attracting everyone's attention, as well. Look, last year 36,000 brothers from Germany made a definite return to Turkey. The number is increasing rapidly, the number is growing geometrically. I mean, do people come to the badlands, places where there's no hope? If it's not the center of attraction, what kind of a thing would that be, dear friends? This is happening right now. I mean, we should all be happy about it. If Turkey's economy is a growing star, if it's a center of attraction, and it's clearly reflected in numbers, improvements, then all citizens of the Turkish nation should be pleased, right, dear friends? Okay, do your opposition, I'm not saying anything, do your criticism, but please appreciate this, see this, everybody sees it. I mean, look, it's in this frame, by the way... of course, we're saying it, people who don't believe it. They even say, "Sir, you're giving you a story of success in an economy with the influence of the media. It's similar, it's said that will mean something, we've just heard it. Okay, you don't believe us. Let's say we make biased comments, you don't believe what we say. Look, one of you, Mr. Kemal Dervis, do you know what he says? Just now, Friday, December 2, 2011. The problem is that the IMF plays a key role in resolving this crisis, especially as it reflects the European Union, where the global crisis lives, but this institution needs to be more efficient. Obviously the European Union can't do this alone. America is better off than the EU, but we don't see any leadership. There's no leadership in the EU. ▪ We are facing a serious crisis. The focus of the financial structure crisis in Turkey is much stronger than the country's. Now, look, what I think is interesting is his suggestion: that there is a problem with leadership in the European Union. IMF can contribute, it can, but not with its structure, it says. Mr. Kemal Dervis says he must be the head of the IMF in this regard. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, shouldn't we all be happy about this? ▪ Europe cannot solve such a crisis -- in terms of contribution to Europe -- in terms of support to Europe -- although the IMF cannot solve it, it needs the financial support of the IMF to solve it, but only if you put a Turk on its head, the IMF says it can solve this problem of the European Union. This is Mr. Kemal Dervis, dear friends. There are so many like it in the foreign press, economists, writers, newspapers, I mean, I don't want to go into the details, because the name is interesting, and because it's one of you, and because it's one of you. Dear friends, look, they're making a serious reduction in education spending and they're going to cut back. And while they're doing that, we're going through projects like Project Conqueror, and we're going through an era of training, that's the difference between us. They're going back, trying to get us past the age, dear friends with the FATIH Project, yeah, that's right. While the rate of growth in these countries is slowing down and even arguing about recession, Turkey is breaking records of growth in all 2011, in the first quarter, in the second quarter and in the third quarter, dear friends. You're underestimating this, but we're about to put numbers on how growth is reflected in the material. Look, the first quarter is 12 percent; number one in the world is the fastest growing country in the world. It was a really big event, and when these first numbers came out, when you looked at the broadcasts of international economic circles or looked at their views, it was amazing how they all followed these developments, but at the same time in awe, and they shared their appreciation with the world's public, unlike our friends in the opposition. The second quarter is 8.8%; the world is the second. The third is 8,2; the world's second growth is also at stake. So what we're going to do is we're going to try to figure out the details of this growth by figuring out whether it's really a fictitious growth or a balloon growth. Banks are going down, look, banks are going down in these countries, and very serious numbers are being transferred from the public, from the budget. A hundred billion euros are being transferred to save banks in Europe. We haven't transferred a penny so far for any bank, he doesn't need it. Why? Because the banks run the AK PARTY staff, dear friends. That difference needs to be made. So in a little while, we're going to be doing this review again in the public bank department. While they lose international power and reputation, Turkey becomes a star with its economy, politics, foreign policy. We're not the only ones who say that. Look, again, the German newspaper Die Welt has a very interesting comment about this. Of course, we're not in the mood for that sort of thing, so we can't have an attitude, we can't have attitude, we can't have feet on the ground all the time, the Turks are laughing at the financial crisis in the European Union. So, of course, maybe it's a metaphor for what the air is there, and it's the only way to look at it from here in these numbers, he says, he thinks, he thinks, he sees, but it's possible to look at it that way. Because remember, dear friends, ten years ago, twenty years ago, they were laughing at us from there. I mean, for God's sake, they made fun of all the zeroes of our money almost every day, didn't they, did they? They were making fun of our inflation rate. We were breaking records, so we were setting records in the world. These are not forgotten. As a result of the European Union and all these discussions, at a time when the European Union's dissolution scenarios are being discussed, that is, at the moment, in the world's particular economic environments, including themselves, very seriously, today, the possibility of disintegrating the Eurozone and the European Union is being seriously discussed and discussed. While they're being discussed, we as Turkey can contribute financially to the European Union at the point of full membership, we need to rethink this issue, we're reviewing them, we're discussing them, dear friends. So imagine a Europe where all investment spending is reduced, major investments are suspended, access to health care is difficult; the resources assigned to the disabled, poor poverty, education are reduced; unemployment is increasing; income, institutions and added value tax rates are increased in Turkey for a moment, so imagine that these are made in Turkey, dear friends. God forbid. Imagine that because of the crisis of income, institutions, added value tax rates, as in Europe, we have to increase, imagine, as in the whole world. Imagine that there is a difficulty in transportation to health care or that pensions have been reduced. Imagine that the officer's wages have been frozen. Imagine that tens of thousands of officers have been fired from their jobs, 4/C. Can you imagine? Won't they eat us alive, dear friends?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0041par0469	Cross-reference the officer's salary, so say it.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0034par0470	Can you imagine? Imagine, I mean, it's so painful to live. We feel sorry for the European Union. Don't let God put anyone in that position. But that's all we can do for the European Union. Unless they put a Turk in charge of the IMF, but as of now, that's the least we can say. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, everyone put your hands on your conscience, dear friends. We have put European countries in the European Union, compared them with Turkey, as Mr. Shandir said. What did we do in Turkey? In Turkey, we have increased car taxes for this period, luxury vehicles, and we have increased STV in cigarettes and beverages; this is all our measure, this is all the measure we take, there is no other measure in this sense.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0041par0473	No more natural gas?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0034par0474	No, they're the raises in the general framework, that's a different thing, so they're a yearly increase in inflation. As a result of the crisis, we take two measures that aim to minimize its negative consequences. Now, in front of these two paintings, for God's sake, put your hands on your conscience. There's a captain and his staff who can master his ship in that wavy ocean. This is the painting. Now, shouldn't we thank this captain and his economic management, his staff? Don't they deserve it? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] That's the way it is in the world. Of course, a little bit to answer that question correctly... so how is Turkey managed? Turkey's economy is very successful, very well managed, compared to the world's major countries at the moment. We just put it out there with the numbers. To answer that question, we may need to return to Turkey and take a short trip to history. I'd like to make this assessment through Turkish relations with the IMF, if I may. Our relationship with the IMF began in 1961. The first stand-by arrangement was held in 1961. Forty-seven years, so until it was sent, forty-seven years were passed until May 2008, and we had to get together with the IMF for forty-seven years. During that time, Turkey made 19 deals with the IMF, 19 stand-by arrangements. The first was in 1961, and the last was in 2005. We didn't do 18 of them, so they were done before the AK PARTY governments, and we organized one of them, the 19th stand-by. The main reason why 18 stand-bys were organized or why governments called for such a call at that time was because economies were in crisis at that time. So the fact that the economy's going to be burdened with payment is that they can't find foreign currency to meet the most basic needs, and they're going to the IMF door with all their heart to get a loan from the IMF. 18 of the 19 stand-by arrangements were made that way, dear friends. The economy has hit the wall, and we need a beating immediately; governments have had to go to the door of the IMF, from 1961 to 2005. There was a crisis in the 18th, except for the 19th, and they went to the door of the IMF. We're not in the 18th, so there's no AK PARTY government, we're in the 19th. In the 19th place, not because of the crisis, dear friends, but because of the 19th, he has us, he has the AK PARTY, he runs the AK PARTY. The 2005 and the last stand-by arrangement was made just to improve debt structures, to use lower, cheaper loans. So, now, of course, during this period, the IMF is very dominant. The IMF is in a position that penetrates every point of Turkey. In fact, if you recall, the names of the IMF's Turkey desk chiefs were much more known to Turkey by the public than by an artist; they were much more famous. He's been following the press day to where he's been from his food to where he's been, the whole press. In fact, I never forget the name Carlo Cottarelli. So maybe we didn't have the names of the artists that cost the public at the time -- not just me, I think, of all the public opinion -- Carlo Cottarelli, so important that the IMF, the IMF, is the Chief of the Turkey Table, so that's the end of it. But the press is showing that... why? Because Turkey needs it, needs it to use resources, the source is in the IMF. Therefore, the Turkish desk chief's words are important, his evaluations are important. For him, all the press is watching, the Turkish public is following; it's so effective. Now, look, dear friends, in the meantime -- I just told you -- there were 19 stand-by arrangements. 18 of them were made by others -- all through the crisis -- we did the 19th, but we did the 18th and 19th. We didn't do 18, but it was done in 2002, in February -- we did it. Now, 17 out of 19 stand-bys can't reach their goal, dear friends, 17 can't reach their destination. Look, I'll give you an example. I'm specifically avoiding the 2002 assessment because of sensitivity, so that's not the point, it's not to get locked up in a period and get out of there. We're just trying to do this because we came to power at the time. We need to be able to perceive the evaluations in that frame so far, but we insist on avoiding them. Look, I'll start from the 1970s. The entire 17 stand-by arrangement ends in failure, so none of the goals of the arrangement, of the agreement, are happening. Now, from here, I'll go somewhere else. Let's start with the 10th. Look, the 10th stand-by arrangement was carried out by Mr. Demirel's Government in August 1970. What's the point? The goal is to end the recession. The result: growth accelerates, but inflation increases to two digits. The 11th stand-by arrangement, the late Blunt Ecevit, March 1978. The goal is to increase exports, speed up growth, and that's what they do. Very clearly, you know, when an agreement is to be made with the IMF, the method is this: First, there are talks behind the scenes. The IMF says: "You will accept these, these, and these, and these, and these, that you will apply to me, and write to me. You will also be sent a stand-by arrangement. I mean, it's like the country's sending it itself, but behind it, basically, the IMF dictates all the conditions; it dictates them to the point, to the decimal, to the decimal, because there's no other way. You have to borrow, you have no money, you have no currency, you have no choice, the money is there, and when you leave, you have every condition, every pattern. The goal is to increase exports, accelerate growth. The result: problems are getting heavier, recession is turning into a crisis. The 12th stand-by arrangement, March 1979, the late Ecevit. The goal is to end the economic crisis, which was a year ago, to end the crisis. The result: inflation continues to rise, three-digit inflation figures are achieved and the economy goes into recession, 1979, as a result of the 12th stand-by arrangement. The 13th stand-by arrangement, January 1980, Mr. Demirel again. The goal is to open up the economy, do it for this purpose, and end the crisis. The result: the economy opens out, but inflation continues to see in three digits. April 1994, Mr. Ciller's Government. The goal is to stop the climb in and out of the interior, which is to stop both the budget deficit and the exchange deficit, the current deficit. The result: inflation exploded and gave birth to the 1994 crisis. The 17th stand-by arrangement is being arranged. When? December 99, the late Bulent Ecevit. The goal is to reduce inflation to a single digit, just like this, the goal, the primary target. Conclusion: Completed with a major devaluation of the period and the 2001 crisis. Yeah, we're on our way, so far, all the stand-by arrangements have been implemented by other governments before us, and now, we've applied the 18th, we haven't signed them, but we have. Signed in January 2002, the late Ecevit. Purpose number one is to reduce inflation to a single home. Two: reducing real interest and reaching a healthy debt position. Three: to ensure sustainable growth. Conclusion: inflation has landed in one household. Right? It's under 10 percent. Reel interest was 30 percent when we took over, and even in the IMF letter Mr. Dervis sent to the IMF, it was highly clearly mentioned in 33% -- it's down to 5 percent now, about 23% of real interest, because that's one of the goals, and high growth rates have been provided. He has three goals, three goals, 18th stand-by arrangement; all three are being carried out, all three are being carried out. In any of the other seventeen, the goal is unreachable, dear friends. We don't exist in the 17th. The 18th is carried out by the AK PARTY governments, the economy management of the EC PARTY; that's the difference, dear friends. Is there any other way to comment? No way. So that's a coincidence? 17 of them fail, the numbers are obvious. They're all going back to the door of the IMF (IMF) because of a new crisis, to get a loan, no one can reach the target; the 18th one is being reached because the AK PARTI staff is growing because it's being implemented by the AK PARTI staff. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, is there any other way to interpret such a conclusion? So the first one is coincidence, the second one is coincidence, the third, the fourth, the fourth, the fifth, 16, 17... could it all be coincidence, could it be that much? It can't be, and after the 18th stand-by arrangement, which the AK PARTI staff has implemented and concluded, both inflation and debt-paying problems are going down, and high growth is being improved, and real wages are going up severely, and an intensive social programme is being put into practice, unemployment is going down. Dear friends, now, all these developments, evaluations, as I've just tried to put it, can't be considered a coincidence in any way. A friend of ours was designed in this 2002 program -- the 18th stand-by arrangement -- while I was in the line of duty, and I made a contribution. Guys, let's not kid ourselves. Look, all arrangements except 19 are the standard template of the IMF, the entire roof is given by the IMF, and Turkey designs it. I mean, I'm sorry to have to say this, but we have to. Otherwise, it's not designed by our friends. The main parameters are given by the IMF, the main target, and the authorities will have to implement it. I mean, these are standard template programs anyway. Yeah, well, in fact, in the past tense, I'm saying that -- in an environment like that, people don't have much left to offer such an IMF. They need the money fast, they need the currency fast, they need the currency immediately for the import of the most needed materials. In such an environment, which government official may dictate or recommend his own conditions to the IMF, should be realistic, dear friends. In fact, it had reached a point where the experts of the IMF had been able to penetrate and intervene in the most remote corners of all the ministries concerned with the economy. These were our facts, and they continued for forty-seven years, forty-seven years.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0042par0493	Your truth!
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0034par0494	The truth of Turkey.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0042par0495	You speak from experience.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0034par0496	I mean, you, those IMF experts, go look at those old ministries... even the bureaucrats would come to us and complain, they would really hurt you, my friends. Can you imagine, coming from a specialist, saying that's how you're going to do it, directing it. Of course, there's nothing you can do if you have to borrow money. If you need it... the borrower gets the order. We don't say it, our ancestors say it well. The borrower gets orders.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0042par0497	Just like you did!
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0034par0498	The debt, look, I'm not saying the cycle when we get it -- it was $23.5 billion, so it's probably down to five, and hopefully we're closing it completely in 2013. I mean, that's one of the most important indicators that we don't take orders from. We didn't take orders. Why? Because we didn't borrow money, guys. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Of course, the IMF has an economic dimension and a political dimension. For forty-seven years, especially in Turkey, socialists, protestors, even Islamists, nationalists have always protested the IMF. They saw the IMF as an instrument of international exploitation. In the 1980s, in the '70s, there was a few of us who didn't say, "Get out." I don't know.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0043par0501	They're going to say, "Freeze the fees."
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0034par0502	Especially our friends from the left flank, we don't want you, we don't want you, you're the organ of international capital, etc., and so much talk, so much foreign currency, so much money, and slogans, and protests, and for forty-seven years, IMF has been called "Get out." But the IMF hasn't gone. Governments already calling on the IMF, the governments calling on the IMF. The IMF is forced to come, and I'll lend you the loan, and in return I'll impose these conditions. It doesn't say that, because the economies are badly governed, they have to go to the IMF to find money, I've just expressed it. So we said to the IMF for forty-seven years, "Get out." He didn't go away, he didn't go away, no one survived the IMF. They left quietly in May 2008, dear friends. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] For God's sake, look, I'm speaking to friends who are particularly protestive, and I'm speaking to friends who have been chanting slogans in the past to send the IMF out of Turkey for forty-seven years: no one has sent them, no government has sent them...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0044par0505	Brother Numan, it is foolish not to speak to the IMF.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0034par0506	So you're very grateful to the leader of the government who sent him and sent him away because he wasn't needed? Don't you deserve it, dear friends? I'm sorry, I'm really sorry. Now, at this point...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0044par0508	Mr. President, there's a lot of provocation.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0045par0509	I mean, socialism...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0034par0510	For all of them, for all of them, so far, the IMF is gone. For everyone who says or doesn't have a very warm feeling for the IMF, I say it for every political party, for every member of parliament, I say it for everyone. So after forty-seven years of governments that no one can send, no one can implement rational, rational economic policies, we don't need a painting like this, which, of course, should be thanked with its leader. I'm really sorry about that, and I've never heard of it, but at least they can do it from now on. Now, dear friends, look, the absence! I mean, really, these relationships with the IMF, they're very interesting at the time. Again, I just mentioned that the 11th and 12th stand-by arrangements are being made during the late Ecevit period. Now, for the 11th stand-by arrangement, the economists of the period sign and send a letter to the IMF, sending a stand-by arrangement, where there are a few very important statements, because they are a political party, an organization, which, as a result, has always come forward, is the social democrat of the late Bkent Ecevit, who has always said that the peasant, the worker, the officer, is with him. I think it's extremely important because it's related to him. Look, do you know what they say in the 11th letter of intent sent to the IMF in 1978? They're writing about other things. I'm saying the two I find important are for stand-by 11. It says there: "Forage and salary increases will be underinflation. "
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0046par0512	Like now!
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0034par0513	It's a commitment, the government. In his letter to the IMF, the government of the period has made a commitment to the IMF, saying: "The increase of wages and wages will be underinflation. "
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0046par0514	Like now, like now!
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0034par0515	Second: The price of support for export products will be set according to the price of the world. Look not at that, my friends. In the letter sent to the 12th stand-by arrangement of the following year, it is also promised that subsidies to wheat agriculture will be removed. The economies of the government of the late Blunt Ecevit. And the public staff costs will also be disciplined. I mean it with all sincerity: God does not place any government in such a position. Imagine, look, you're a social Democrat, you say you're for the worker, you say you're for the worker, you're for the peasant, but you're negotiating the officer, the worker's fee, the farmer's money with the IMF, dear friends. Is it an easy situation? It's hard. God help you, so don't let it happen to anyone.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0047par0517	Canikli, what ignorance!
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0048par0518	What happened to the citizen you used to work for $600,000 under the hunger line?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0034par0519	I mean, you guys, I can't help but pray. Let me pray sincerely. I mean, there's nothing wrong with him.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0049par0520	What are you doing today?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0050par0521	Congressmans, we are approaching the end of the negotiations. We're having a pretty good discussion. Please don't interfere, please.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0034par0522	Look, the AK PARTY Group has listened to the speakers of all groups, not a word, dear friends.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0050par0524	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0034par0525	Please, I invite you to act like an AK PARTY group. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, fellas, look, the IMF is finally gone. There's another interesting point. When the IMF was leaving -- I won't name it, so I don't want to speculate -- some of them said, "What are you doing, you can't send the IMF, but make a new deal, hurry up with $40 billion. You will be responsible for the possible problems due to the delay of the agreement with the IMF. There have been criticisms. Nothing happened, and right in the middle of the crisis, the IMF went through one of the world's biggest crises of the century, and we haven't used a penny since then, dear friends of the IMF. The IMF advisers don't come to Turkey and advise; Turkish economies run the Turkish nation's economy, the Turkish nation's children manages resources.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0051par0529	Then who did we owe this debt to? It's not the source of the debt, it's the amount.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0034par0530	Now, look, there's a lot of things being said in detail, but today, I'm trying to make this assessment, especially from more global, more general things. One of them is, they're talking about corruption again, and so on and so forth. Now, friends, individual events don't make much sense, so it's not a scientific approach to express them, to evaluate them based on them. Instead, you have to put it out there with the numbers, and you have to compare it with the numbers. Now, look, in Turkey, in the past or in general, let's say that one of the important areas of abuse has been public banks, or public banks. What are public banks? Here's the People's Bank, the Bank of Foundations, and the Bank of Agriculture, which is the Bank of Foundations, we're counting in this framework, we're describing it as a public bank. Now, we need to do a comparison from this point of view, so we've just done it with the world, we've done a short tour in the history of the economy of Turkey, and now we need to do an evaluation to find out how Turkey is run through banks? Now, look, dear friends, when we take over the economy, the total amount of the People's Bank's loan is $1 quadrillion 365 million, total loan volume at that moment, total number of loans. The amount of loans, which we can call Batak loans, is $1 quadrillion, 300 million. The total loan is $1.3 quadrillion, $1 billion 365 million; the following loans are $1 billion, 300 million, which is 95 percent of all loans. That's right, the official number. That's the status of the People's Bank. Oh, I'll tell you right now, dear friends...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0052par0535	I mean, what kind of mess could it be? Don't you ever see a banker...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0034par0536	That's right, these numbers are official. Let it not be misunderstood that when we took over, the 57th government was on duty, and all the blame... I'm not saying that, it's theirs. I'm not saying that. Look, I want to give you an increase in the public bank's follow-up loans over the years. I mean, as a problem from the past, I'm just saying it's a problem that can't be caused by a government. In 1978, public bank loans increased by 293 per cent; in 1999, 183 per cent; in 2000, 151 per cent; in 2001, 286 per cent. Yeah, I'll keep going. 95 percent of it's shit. Now, do you know what happened after nine years of AK PARTY governments, dear friends? 2.9%, yes, that's right. (AK PARTY) The total return of loans given by the People's Bank at the moment -- let's call it "short loans" -- is now 2.9 per cent of all high-valued friends, from 95 per cent to 2.9. It's not just the People's Bank, it's the others. Look, it's the same with the Agriculture Bank. Back in 2002, the swamp rate was 24 percent.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0053par0540	Mr. Canikli, ask that General Manager of the People's Bank...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0034par0541	Do you know how much it is now? 1.25 per cent down to 1.25 per cent. In the same way, the value of the Bank of Foundations has been reduced from 24.25 per cent to 3.69 per cent, and the percentage of loans given since the arrival of the EC PARTI, or loans given from the beginning of 2003, is less than 2 per cent; they are well below the average of the sector. What does that mean? What does that mean, how do you interpret it? First, you have to interpret the period of the EC PARTY. Which means there's absolutely no political pressure on banks to give loans to public banks. That's what it means.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0054par0544	We made that law.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0034par0545	Look, guys, design is important, so the decision is important because it's said from time to time that in 2001, in 2002, sir, we designed the program you applied. Guys, I've given you your samples 17 times. So, of course, the decisions that have been made have to be true, but the application is extremely important before the land has been taken. So 17 decisions made 17 times... these were all the right decisions when you looked at them, all made by the IMF, including the 18th stand-by arrangement in 2002. So there's no misbehavior, no misdemeanor, no corruption during the AK PARTY. That's what this painting shows, that's what these numbers show. No matter what you say, you can't deny it, my friends. If that happened, the loan would go down, so if it was a wife, dude, friend thing, just like in the past... why did it go down in the past? Because he was opening it, he was a politician, and he was giving out loans on instructions...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0055par0548	Congressmans, I'm gonna have to ask you.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0034par0549	...to your wife, your friend.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0055par0550	Mr. Canikli, a moment of your time. The citizen listens to Mr. Hatibin's speech, but the citizen doesn't listen to what he's saying. That's why it's no use to you in practice, it's no use to you. Your negotiations...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0056par0552	We're telling the truth.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0055par0553	Governor, you've been a governor. Can we talk about where you're sitting?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0056par0554	We're telling the truth. Why don't you just tell me why you gave a loan to a group the size of the loan that was given to the entire shop?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0055par0555	Look, I'm gonna have to ask you. Mr. Serindağ, look, I have the obligation to pronounce your name.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0057par0556	Mr. President, welcome...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0055par0557	Don't sit in the front row and make small talk. It's not right, and it doesn't suit us.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0058par0559	Can it be thrown out in the back row, then?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0055par0560	So, please, don't interrupt Hatibin, we've reached the end of negotiations. If there's anything that concerns you, your Group Vice Presidents will already talk, so please, we're doing fine...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0059par0561	Yes, friends, so it's safe to say again that there has never been any discrimination in public banks during the EC PARTI period, any use of private loans, the use of loans by instruction, abuse, corruption. If there was, this painting wouldn't be like this, it would be like the painting we took over, dear friends. Everyone needs to see it and accept it. Now, look, everybody's talking about the poor poor. Everyone says how poor he is, how much he loves the poor, how much he loves the poor. Now, of course, it's not words, friends, so governments are putting their actions into budget practice. So by means of the budget, close to 25 per cent of the national income is collected and distributed again. So it's one of the most important tools to make policy happen in this way. Therefore, speak as much as you want: I am this poor friend. I, you know, like, love the poor... to go to their poor families every once in a while as a consulting fight... it doesn't really matter much. Oh, that's good stuff, but it's got to be backed up by something else. Unless it's supported by action, these words can only be the material of political rhetoric. Now, how do we know? Indeed, there is only one way to find out whether political authorities, governments, poor poverty, or which part of society you love more, which part you care more about: we will look at budget figures, valuable friends, budget figures. Well, whatever part of the budget he's passed on more, he likes that cut, doesn't he? He doesn't like the cut, whichever one he gives less. So, I'm going to look at the budget numbers, and again, because of that sensitivity, I'm going to start with the 1998 budget, so I don't want to get stuck in 2002. Look, think of the 100 lira budget. A total of 100 lira is in the 1998 budget. About 25 lira goes to employee spending, 40 lira goes to interest -- the 100 lira budget goes to interest, total investment goes to $6.4 lira, agriculture goes to $1.2 to investment, and the others go to 28 -- 1998 -- which is a similar picture when we look at the 2002 budget -- so let's say that there's about 20 percent of the staff spending, let's say there's 6 percent of the investment spending, there's 1.62 percent of the interest payments -- 44.7 percent of the interest payments -- and there's 9.7 percent of social security. Now, in the frame we just said, when we evaluate these numbers, it says that the government that applies this budget likes interest rates 40 percent or likes 50 percent. Sir, he likes social security, social security, 9.7% of the time. Friends like that, so I'm sorry. There's not much point in it, we'll look at the action, not the word, the action. Now, when you look at 2002, it's about 98, and more or less so. It's just, you have to hand in a right. Since the 90s, the interest rate in the budget has been increasing steadily, except for one year, 1997. In 1997, the government was able to make a serious decline in interest spending, and then it continued to increase again. I think it's safe to say that here. Fifty-two billion dollars of the $115 billion budget goes to interest. Now, who is the interest transferred to? The interest is transferred to the investor, transferred to the person who has the money. Think about it, a significant part of the budget, the 100 lira budget, the interest revenues, 100,000 people, the valuable friends, the total number of 100,000 people.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0060par0569	Yes, I'll give you an extension, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0059par0570	Here's the picture, dear friends: roughly half the budget is 100,000 people, and half of it is 74 million people. I mean, not even a wolf would make a cab like this, dear friends. Now, can you tell us that we're the poor's friends, that we're officers, that we're friends with the worker, or is there a very valid argument against these numbers, dear friends? Who believes that? Who believes that? No one will believe it. So what we understand from here is that the government before us has a common feature -- they love the investors, they love the people who get interest, but they don't like the workers, they don't like the villagers, they don't like the officer, they don't like the poor. That's the number. So when we say that, our friends aren't supposed to be bothered by it because we're totally showing the numbers. Now, look, I just distributed the 100 lira budget in 2002. And I also say as the figures in 2011 -- staff costs have been revised -- from 18 to 27.6, from social security, from the budget to the budget -- over $100 -- the ratio has risen from 9.3 to 16.8, from 6.6 to 7.8, from local administrations to 7.6, from 6.6 to 11.3, the rate transferred to agriculture has increased from 2.5, with the definition of exponential numbers, including 3.3, including the number transferred to interest. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] The fact that this painting shows is that we love our officers. We really do. We love with our hearts. It's not just about political material. Why? Because we've increased our share of the budget. That's what Seven does, dear friends. Seven transfers more resources from the budget. Isn't that right? Yeah. That's what we're doing. Look, we like our pensioners, too. Why? Earlier, the pensioner's share of the budget increased from 9.3 to 16.8. Two floors at least. We love our pensioners at least twice as much as we did before. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We also like investments in local governments. From 6.6... look, it's not the number, it's the amount, so it's the share from the $100 budget. We've raised it from 6.6 to 11.3. We also love our farmer. Dear friends, we raised the budget by 2.5 percent to 3.3. We increased it by more than 50 percent. We've increased our farmer's share of the budget by more than 50 percent. So do you like it better or do we like it better? Of course we do, because we've transferred more resources. So you're not going to transfer funds and you're going to transfer money to those who get interest revenues, and then you're going to say, "I love the farmer, I love the pensioner, I'm a friend of the officer." I'm sorry, I don't believe that either, and no one will. Well, who don't we love, dear friends? We don't like people who get interest. Why? Half of the 2002 budget was being transferred. We've dropped it to 13.6. We've dropped it to 13.6.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0061par0581	The interest has dropped in the world. There's no such thing!
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0059par0582	Look, it's growing in the world. There's nothing less than 80 percent.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0061par0583	It's 0 percent interest in the world, libor.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0059par0584	As a debt and, of course, interest payments continue to rise according to this in Europe. They're going up, too. So just relax.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0061par0585	Ask Ali Babacan.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0059par0586	Now, therefore, friends, the friendly enemy here -- in a metaphorical sense, of course -- our citizens, I really think they already feel what government, which government is their friend, who lives, when our pensioner goes to the hospital, and when our young brothers go to school, they live. The money that was transferred to the mothers... The disabled, look, the disabled... very interesting, for example, before our 2003 or 2004... his first application began in 2004, if I remember correctly. There's not a penny passed to our disabled citizens before 2004, friends, a penny. And before that, didn't we have any handicapped citizens in this country? We transferred it.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0062par0588	Mr. Canikli. The concept is better if you use Mr. Canikli as a closed door.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0059par0590	We transferred $3.2 quadrillion in 2011, guys. So when you look at these, they also have detailed accounts. Now, for a moment, think of it this way: the 2002 budget, the budget that we're taking over. Do you know how much interest we would have to pay, dear friends, if the same interest rate, 44% or 45 per cent had been preserved in the 2011 budget exactly the same way? So if the same ratio was preserved, we'd have to pay interest in the $140 quadrillion 2011 budget. And the interest we're paying is $42.6 billion. So it's 97.4 billion dollars a year, saved on interest alone. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, some friends are asking, they're saying, "Sir, you've gotten this much from privatisation, you've gotten this much from this, you've saved this much from interest, and that's what we've saved from $313 billion interest in nine years, that's $313 quadrillion. ▪ Where do you use them? Let's just say, dear friends, that in nine years, we've transferred 173 billion dollars to investment, we've transferred 56 billion dollars to agriculture, we've transferred 310 quadrillion liras to social security, we've transferred 253 quadrillion liras to healthcare, we've transferred 269 to staff spending, we've transferred $470 billion to social benefits. Sixteen billion liras a year for welfare. The amount in the 2002 budget is only $1 billion, 16 times the value of almost 16 times the value of friends. I mean, we love the poor poor, the weird band, at least 16 times as much as you do.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0063par0595	What kind of logic is that?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0059par0596	That's right. I mean, it's amazing. I'm not saying that. Numbers don't lie.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0064par0598	Mr. Canikli, your extra time is up.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0059par0599	Mr. President, to thank you...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0064par0600	I'll just turn on the microphone to greet the General Assembly. After all, you will be able to express your views as Deputy Director of the Group often from this bench. He's just about to say hello...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0059par0601	Thank you, Mr. President. I hope the central management budget of 2012 brings blessings to our country, our nation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0064par0604	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0065par0605	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0066par0606	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0064par0607	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0066par0608	Mr. President, it could be standing up for a report or two, because for the record...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0064par0609	I can listen from there.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0066par0610	Sir, of course, the painting that Mr. Canikli put forth: in fact, he's unemployed, he's retired on winter day, and people think he's going into the sea in his bathing suit. To be honest...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0067par0611	People understand what's right.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0066par0612	And they took orders. He testified. I must point out that we, the government of the Republic of Turkey, were not a government that took orders when we handed them over, and we never were. But they themselves confessed, and we carried out what was signed in 2001. He said they took the order themselves.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0068par0613	There's continuity in the government, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0066par0614	One more thing: how do you get an order? While the 2009 budget was being discussed here, at midnight, 10 per cent, when you brought in the budget for spending on agriculture and investments, you received orders from the IMF, which you approved to the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Orders in your own household, in your own government...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0069par0615	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Oztrak...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0070par0617	Mr. President, I'd like to speak of the 69th article because of the taunt Mr. Canikli's speech.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0069par0618	So based on his testimony, if you could just explain it...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0070par0619	Mr. President, Mr. Canikli said that the team who prepared that program -- referring to my speech -- did not have that capacity. They acted on IMF instructions. I want word for him because of the taunt.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0069par0620	Mr. Oztrak, I listened carefully. He didn't make any evaluations by mentioning the individuals. It's a general statement, you're out of the question.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0070par0621	No. Mr. President, the friend who was just speaking on this bench said.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0069par0622	You know, if there's a statement about individuals, it's teasing, but your word went to the transcripts, so let's consider it that way.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0070par0623	Mr. President, the friend who was just speaking here said.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0069par0624	Dear lawmakers, we will continue the talks on behalf of individuals and the government in the following part.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0070par0625	Mr. President was referring to me as the friend who just spoke here.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0069par0626	You haven't passed, Mr. Oztrak. You didn't pass, and you weren't especially...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0070par0627	Mr. President, who's the friend who just spoke here? It's me. I'm the friend who just spoke there, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0069par0628	Well, from where you are, I'll give you my word for a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0070par0632	Mr. President, Mr. Canikli, the program that was prepared in 2001 was not prepared by Turkish children by Turkish bureaucracy, but by Turkish bureaucracy that had no such capacity...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0071par0633	No, I didn't say capacity. No, I didn't say that.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0070par0634	He said it was the IMF program. I don't believe a friend of ours from bureaucracy would say that. And I'm very sorry to take that tone, but let me make it clear that Turkish bureaucracy, Turkish children, is always capable of preparing their own programs.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0071par0635	There's no problem with capacities, I didn't say that.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0070par0636	I don't think Mr. Canic has any idea how to prepare a program without instructions from the IMF.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0071par0637	It's our area of expertise.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0070par0638	Now let me make it clear: that program was prepared by Turkish bureaucrats, which is very different from the previous program, and our Parliament has worked day and night to bring the reforms that were envisioned in that programme into effect. If Mr. Canikli speaks so freely from this bench today, it's because of that program. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0072par0641	Well, thank you very much. Congressmans, on behalf of the groups...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0073par0643	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to say two words.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0072par0644	Tell me where you are, but look, you've said it six times, and I didn't say anything, so I had to warn you on the 7th, so there's no such thing, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0073par0645	Allow me to explain, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0072par0646	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0073par0647	You said 6 times that you were watching me all the time? That's the first one.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0072par0648	E, when we're in the lead, we have to watch it by nature.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0073par0649	Second: By mentioning my previous assignment, you are sitting in the front as if I should not be sitting in the front, and you are talking like...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0072par0650	No, no, it's not that, on the contrary, as a man who knows you and has a law, when he's spoken in front of him, he's offended, so I tried to tell him.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0073par0651	Sir, if you'll excuse me. If you examine the transcripts of Mr. Elitas...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0072par0653	Well, that's the point. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0073par0655	Sir, allow me to finish my sentence. I know manners, I know literature, and I believe you've known me before.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0072par0657	Yeah.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0073par0658	That's why I resent your words. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0072par0660	Look, if it wasn't for the rhetoric, there wouldn't be any need for this kind of warning.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0073par0661	Look at the reports, Mr. Elitas.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit01spe0072par0668	Now, negotiations are complete on behalf of the groups. The next part of the negotiations will be the talks on behalf of individuals and on behalf of the government. I'm taking a break from the negotiations until 18.50.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0072par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 44th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The commission and the government are in place. We'll continue the final talks on the entire budget in budget talks. Now, on behalf of the budget, Izmir MP Mehmet Tasem Tekelioğlu. Here you are, Mr. Tekeelioğlu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0074par0008	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. I want to start by criticizing France's attitude, as all my friends here do. France's attitude is neither to France nor to Armenia. France's attitude is not to conform to our historical past, our historical relations, our plans for the future, so France must see this truth with its entire community, with its intellectuals, with its MPs, and with all its other social parts. To tell you the truth, the silence that French intellectuals have shown in the face of a situation that restricts freedom of expression like this is amazing to us, and we're wondering if there's a difficulty with French intellectuals and French intellectuals. My dear friends, the attitude of France, known as the fortress of freedom of expression, at least as a place where these concepts bring joy, is not really bequestable. In that regard, we need to do a much better job of criticizing and displaying this attitude by planning ahead and expressing our expectations for the future. In view of this attitude, I would expect a criticism from the European Union. The European Union, I'm afraid, has upset us by not making a sound in the face of the attitude that restricts freedom of expression and restricts freedoms. There is a type in France after the revolution, called Joseph Fouche. This is Joseph Fouche, the type of man who, with Stefan Zweig's description, can disguise himself for his benefit and show all sorts of turncoats. Today's French politicians, unfortunately, have a sense of that, so Napoleon used the great turncoat for Fouche. To be honest with you, the French politicians deserve such an adjective because they do not agree with what they're saying to the Prime Minister. My dear friends, budgets, of course, are one of the most important indicators in a country. Therefore, the view of the budget is extremely important. Budgets are, of course, the most important indicator of a country's independence. We care tremendously about our budgets from a future perspective, in terms of trust. Our friends who have been talking here so far, our Deputy Group President, Mr. Canikli, all our other friends from the EC PARTY, have given us a lot of information on the quality of the budget, and these are really, really high-profile values, but we also need to take the job in terms of quality. So far, Turkey has become a country of complete confidence through the 10th budget by the EC PARTI governments, Turkey has become a country of stability and Turkey has become a country of people who look to the future with confidence. So maybe this part of the job comes first. In that sense, people in Turkey now embrace the AK PARTI governments and the Prime Minister, who protects our rights, our law, this Prime Minister, who owns us, a person who thinks like us. The trust in this administration may be ahead of everything. My dear friends, the beautiful level that Turkey has come to today, the level that all these numbers have shown, is the result of trust in this administration, the AK PARTY, and the Prime Minister. So that when the Prime Minister says something, he fulfills it. It's looked like a certain person because our people, who know that the promises of the past have not been fulfilled, see a government and a Prime Minister who stands behind everything he's promised and defends him to the end. My dear friends, there are so many things that are going to be put in the part about the arbitraryness that I'm saying that we've shown them, you know, Turkey's growth by numbers, we can put the income, the national income, all of that in Turkey. Even if interest is dropped alone, even at the level it comes from, it shows how much confidence people have in Turkey as a joy. Internal and external dignity, all of this is extremely important for Turkey to show its level. With this inner and external dignity, we've become a country in the world, a country in our territory, a country in which the word is obeyed. It is with such confidence that we have joined the Security Council, we have elected a friend of ours to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and we have felt that dignity throughout our entire region. I recently entered the elections as an observer in Morocco and Tunisia. Our observations there are extremely important and remarkable. I'll just give you an example: Tunisia has a very long market. We went across that market, and we walked to the other end. There, people learned three words very well, with their accent a little bit, Turkiya, hello, Erdogan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear friends, we've compared 2002 to today in all the work we've done so far. I've drawn up some numbers that compare the 2008 budget that we made after the 2007 election and the 2012 budget that we're doing after the 2011 elections, and we're saying that we've left the 2002 numbers way behind. Now that we are competing with ourselves, we are trying to overcome the numbers that we set out for ourselves, I will give you just a few examples. For example, when we compared the budget of the Ministry of National Education in 2008 with the budget in 2012, we made a increase of 16 billion dollars and an increase of 41 per cent. According to the Ministry of Health 2008, we've had a 24 per cent increase, a 36 per cent increase in health care. We've made a 46 percent increase in the services of the Ministry of Justice. And while I'm here, I'd like to say that there have been some criticisms recently brought up on the occasion of an incident at a police station in İzmir. My dear friends, I don't go into detail because the time is short, but let's not forget that the government's interior ministers put those cameras in those police stations, these governments. So the will that put it there, not to torture it, but to prevent torture there. We're not supposed to miss this spot. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Gene, according to 2008, our Ministry of Transport's budget has increased by 88 per cent. What's so important to us is that our efforts to produce high-profit products run through RD and TUBITAK, and you know that we've raised TBITAK's budget by 37 percent compared to 2008. We've raised the budget of the board of higher education loans and dorms by 54 percent. We've increased agricultural support by 26 percent, but that's just as far as the budget goes, and that's a lot higher if we're going to go with non-budget agricultural benefits. My dear friends, it's a number I care very much about, the RD budget. The RGE budget comes to about 1.5 billion Turkish liras this year. That makes it a little more than 1 percent of our non-national product. Our goal, of course, is to increase it to 3 percent, but you can appreciate that it's not going to happen suddenly, but we're going to catch 3 percent in the coming term. Gene, budgets have been significantly increased in our universities. Our newly established universities have been earmarked for extra budgets, and our universities have been given 12.7 billion in total funding, which is an increase of 10.7 per cent from the previous year. My dear friends, innovation, innovation, added value high product, which is not only supported by TUBITAK and the RD spending at universities, but is now significantly supported by our Ministry of Industry. With all this support, we have no doubt that our country will be better off. I, of course, have a lot of numbers.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0075par0026	Mr Tekelioğlu, your time is up. I'll give you a minute to finish your views.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0074par0027	Mr. President, thank you very much, thank you, sir. I'll just give you a couple more digits and stop talking. In Turkey, unemployment is an important problem, we know that, but let's not forget that since 2007, we've created 4.2 million new jobs. During that time, there were 1.6 million jobs lost in the 27 countries of the European Union. So with these numbers in the middle, we can see very clearly where Turkey is coming from. My dear friends, the last thing I want to do is thank our Ministry of Finance, but my thanks are either way. I'd also like to thank the government for a good budget, and also for the fact that Izmirans and myself have a pen in the budget for the EXPO expenditures of Izmir. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0076par0032	Thank you, Mr. Tekelloglu. Now, on behalf of the government, Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc has asked for a statement. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Arinc.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0077par0036	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. We have completed the 10th budget of the EC PARTY governments, the first budget talks of our 61st government. On behalf of our government, I thank all the members of the Plan and Budget Commission for the drafting of this budget, and for their efforts, efforts, efforts, contributions to the General Assembly talks, to our ministers, our esteemed deputies, to all of our bureaucrats and to all of our parliamentary employees, to our political parties, to the group presidents and their valued spokesmen who have contributed to the drafting of the budget. I wish our budget to be good for our country, for our nation. All our friends told me, and I want to feel the same pain. We're extremely upset that our citizen has lost his life as a result of a truck crash on the road to Diyarbakır-Bismil-Batman. I pray for God's mercy, and for the wounded, and for the wounded, and for them, and for the speed of healing. May Allah give patience to his kinsmen, and may Allah never let such evil befall them again. My dear friends, I wasn't here, but I listened to all my dear friends speak for our political parties on screens. I thank them very much for today's budget talks, and it was excellent in style and content. So, I want to thank our nationalist Movement Party, our Republican People's Party, the precious speakers of our Peace and Democracy Party, my dear friend who speaks from our AK PARTY, and my friends who will express and express their personal thoughts. Since I was young, I've had an interest in all politicians, like tracking budget talks. Budget talks are very important to political parties, very important to Parliament, governments, rulings, very important to the opposition. Everyone here will present their claim, criticize power, reveal their own vision; power will answer them and reveal what they think about the years to come, their projects. Since my youth, we have always followed the late Erbakan, the late Ecevit, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Turgut Özal, from their own style and different characteristics in the budget talks. I know that Mr. Demirel, in his own unique manner, in his own words, in his political mastership; in his graphics, in his persuasive speech, and in all the other political party presidents, well prepared and very well, in contact with the facts, he represents his party and Turkey well in the budget talks. I wish them mercy as well as mercy to those who are dead, and good health and good health to those who are alive. It would have been very sharp then, but it wouldn't have been offensive, insults, demeaning expressions. In all areas of the budget, governments have been criticised, and the coalition has been criticised by coalition partners, and the ruling alone has been criticised. I've followed you today, each of our dear friends in the field, Mr. Hamzacebi and Mr. Öztrak, our friends from Finance, DPT, who have important savings in Parliament; Mr. Kutluata Hodja is a very valuable economist, Mr. Şandir is a very experienced politician who speaks for the Peace and Democracy Party, and I thank our two ladies -- even though it doesn't suit my language. There are things I don't agree with, and I will answer them during criticism, but what makes me happy is that even though content is harsh, criticism is the beauty of style, respect of parliament, respect of parties. Today I see him, God forbid, and thank all my friends. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear friends, I will continue my words on this minor occasion. Apparently, this is our 10th budget. For ten years, we've been putting numbers into every budget meeting, exposing everything from Turkey's health to education, security to foreign policy. You criticize, of course you have the right, but at the end of the year, we reach our goals, more or less, and today, the first budget of the 61st government will no longer be much more than a few examples of the numbers -- and I hope that Thursday's arrival will be successful by Wednesday. Since 2003, our government's actions have been successful, budget practices have been successful, our predictions have been successful. I think we've reached our destination by now. It says in front of all the classes in our report card. Therefore, we praise God, but we are a political organization, and of course we will be wrong, and we will be wrong. The politicians' mistakes will surely be met in the polls. If we've been able to take power alone from the polls for three semesters, it's an expression of our nation's trust in us and support. It will not be so; for our people are different from those who believe. That's what democracy is all about. The nation, which gives 47 per cent, also gives 7 per cent, as there are parties that fall from 22 per cent to 1.5 per cent. That's the nature of politics. As long as our nation's support continues, as long as his trust continues, we and each party will succeed. So we believe that today's predictions will be successful both in our economic life and in our social life, but I also want to bring up a few issues that support them. Of course, some of our friends have also voiced economic stability, like political stability, almost inseparable Siamese twins. Turkey has achieved its political stability at a certain time for years, followed by the development of the economy. We're in a loop that supports each other, triggers each other, accepts each other as essential. Therefore, the fact that political stability has also been achieved in Turkey depends, of course, on the preferences of our enemies.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0078par0047	What kind of political stability is that?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0077par0049	My dear friends, don't look either, and I'll try to be patient and not answer our friend. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear friends, during the budget talks, both our Finance Minister and our Deputy Prime Minister have provided enlightening information on economic targets. I hope that today we will benefit from the criticism of Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Oztrak, Mr. Kutluata, especially the economy. It's not a shame, it's a job we have to do because a fragile economy threatens all countries in both Europe and the world's economies. We need to keep our feet on the ground, keep our eyes open so we don't get 24 hours wrong. If your criticism will contribute to this, we owe you a debt of gratitude. In that way, we are only happy to hear your good thoughts in the name of the idea, so we will not be reduced or burdened. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear friends, budget talks are also very important for Turkey to demonstrate the level of democracy in Turkey, the pulse of politics, the style of politics, the overall quality of the political institution. Look, every word and action we say on the stand of the nation is recorded by our nation. Because our nation operates the mechanism of control of democracy, and it continues to investigate the political institution uninterrupted. Then we too are obliged to do politics in accordance with our nation's style, with its consent. In order for us to do our duty properly, I would like to first remind you of our point of action in politics. None of us is born innocent, born privileged, and not one of us is blessed with error or error. We're all responsible for every job, every verb, every word. We have to do this responsibility knowingly, and we have to take it upon ourselves. With that sense of responsibility, we say that since we have the power of our nation, our policy and style cannot be independent of the way our nation lives. We, all of us, are the children of this country, of this nation. The children and young men of this country are watching us. We carry the trust of 74 million of our people, our citizens, our brothers. Our fabric is one, our yeast one, our essence one. We've become a nation by dissolving our differences in unity. We didn't just go on the history scene. We're not a nation without experience living together. In this land, we have kept each other's law for hundreds of years, and by God's leave, we will uphold each other's law forever. [[Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's standing round of applause for the arrival of the General Assembly]] Here's the thing about democracy, justice, law: one of us is not going to be a citizen, the other is not going to be a ruler, the other is not going to be a subject, one is not going to be a host, the other is not going to be a guest, all of us, all of us, the citizens of this country, are going to build and build and live in this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country. That's what we love about politics, our greatest desire is to win the nation's approval and make up for it. To do that, we have to be kind to each other, to be kind to each other. It's one of the most important guarantees of our social peace. I assure you, and I must confess, regardless of all political debates, that we all need a solid self-criticism in this matter. Democracy is a long process, big transformations take time, but we also have a great experience, a great culture, knowledge, and knowledge. See, for days now, Turkey's thesis in Paris has been defended together by the AK PARTY, Republican People's Party, National Movement Party friends, businessmen, civil society organizations. This is Turkey. So let's make this painting permanent, so let's make it permanent in politics. We all applauded the statement in our Parliament yesterday with the cooperation of three parties. Of course, we'd like our fourth political party to contribute to it, and let's announce our common, loud voice, excitement to the world together, but I'm sure that our political party has been separated from the facts expressed here, perhaps for different reasons, but I also believe that our hearts are thrown together. We have to maintain this state of mind, this moral stance with care. Our elders have declared it as a statement, a human being. They say, "Why don't we observe it in all our memories when we have a sentence, a counsel, a principle, from Jonah, Mazelna, Hajji Bektas Veli, Eşrefoglu Rumi, from Rumi, from Rumi, from Rumi, from Rumi, from Rumi? Congressmans, a few days ago, we were in Iconia because of the Shebiarus ceremonies. It was the 738th year this year, and I gave a speech, and so did our Foreign Minister, and Mr. Kilicdaroglu, the president of the Republican People's Party, gave an extraordinary speech. It was a very well-prepared conversation that expressed our shared feelings. That was the speech of our Prime Minister in the past years. I heard Mr. Baykal, the former President of the Republican People's Party again several times. Amenna, yes, that's what we think. We've had excellent talks that we can all say. The counsel of the Lord was told. From the verses of the Lord, and from the scriptures, all of us have been told good things that must be put into our hearts. I think we need to make this happen in our lives. It's not just a few sentences that fit into a conversation on private nights, but why don't we use them in our lives, especially in our political style, we all have to think of myself as imperfect at first. Thus, in that manner, what is said in seven counsels is no different from what the Sheikh Edebali had said in his will to Osman Gazi. I'm so happy today, but until yesterday, what I've heard and witnessed in the budget talks here, I believe we've all been very upset. I'd like to say these words in the hope that this day will be a start. My dear friends, we especially love each other in our human relationships. When one of us is sick, we run, and when one of us dies, we feel the same pain in our hearts. There's been an incident the past few days, and the journalists are writing like it's something extraordinary, extraordinary, something that shouldn't have happened. A friend of ours from the nationalist movement party got sick, and a friend of ours from the Peace and Democracy Party did the first intervention. So you thought it was the other way around, maybe? Can the children of a nation who have died in the arms of one another be enemies to one another? We love each other very much, we are the children of the same history, we are the people of the same destiny, we are the pure children of the same nation. In our private lives, everyone goes to each other's weddings, prays each other's blessings, and even those who fight here are out backstage drinking tea together. But here, on the stand, that was a frightening tone. Our veins are swollen, our faces are red, and the words I've never been able to repeat -- which are all in the transcripts -- are making us miserable. In particular, I can imagine how my close friends, who have just arrived in Parliament, have complained that such hostility, such bad behavior, such hurtful speech, is being held in Parliament. We shouldn't do this, we shouldn't do it ourselves, we shouldn't cause it. Yes, while we're being pushed here on the stand, a fellow congressman, we're all upset, but we shouldn't cause it either. Even if a person sitting on the presidential bench makes a wrong decision, we must respect the president's decision, ▪ Don't speak when he says, don't make a promise. When he says no promises, there's no other way to rule the House. My dear friends, therefore, in this speech today... [[Republican People's Party (CHP) President Kemal Kilicdaroglu is standing by to applaud the CHP's ranks for the arrival of the General Kurula.]] Sir, there's been two clapping, and I took it upon myself first, but the arrivals of our two presidents... [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yes, Mr. President General, thank you very much for our Prime Minister. They deserve that applause. Yes, I'd like to say here that the right of opposition is not less valuable and less valuable than the right of power. I think we have some old habits. Too loud is not the same as noise; too loud is a rhythm, a rhythm. In the democratic order, none of us have the right to judge another, to read his own way; we all have to listen to each other, to understand each other. Turkey has collected its energy and power in all areas. Now we have to avoid old, old-fashioned slogans, behaviors. Today we are in a different world, and today everyone is looking at your work, your capacity, your production, the quality of what you produce. Turkey has gained its confidence in a strong democracy, with strong political will, with a strong economy. International meetings used to be held once or twice a year now take place several times a week. The miracle of Turkey, Turkey's success, dazzles everyone. We have a lot of problems to deal with, a lot of ways to go, but we're more successful today, and we're on the agenda of the world. We have internal issues, we have external issues, we have people who want to step on our feet, we have people who want to block our path, but look at the perception of Turkey in the world. Turkey is in the world's media almost every day. The world's most important newspapers, television channels, commentators discuss Turkey's achievements, bring them to its pages, screens. I'd like to present a few examples: The Lebanese newspaper Al-Ahbar, May 31st, announces our country's economic success to its readers as the Economic Miracle of the Party of Erdoğan. On 19 June, Spanish ABC TV screens the development of our defence industry as a major development in Turkish defence industry. On 23 June, the magazine Open Democracy, published in England, interprets the level our country has come to in democracy with the European title of democracy in Turkey. The To Vima newspaper, published in Greece on 3 August, announces to its readers the economic crisis and the chaos of governance in their country. The Daily Beast newspaper, published in the United States on September 20th, refers to Turkey as the new superpower of the Middle East. The Wall Street Journal of November 11 has upset the economic achievements of our country's projections of Turkish industrial production. On 5 December, Germany's Deutsche Welle TV introduced Turkey to its audience with a growing publicity in Turkey. Finally, the English daily The Independent, dated December 11th, offers an extraordinary success story to its readers. There are hundreds of other news like this. You can easily enter the website of the desired Press and Information General Directorate and see news of Turkey in the world's media over the past year. That's what we wrote, and that's what we said. Of course, it's not true. You can say that. You're going to make it look like it's wrong. Fuck, they say too much. You can say that. We'll talk about that, too. But it's written, and Turkey is continuing these achievements. In fact, the 2012 budget presents its vision of 2023 ahead of the election. So we're not talking about the budgets of these years, we're actually talking about what kind of Turkey is on the 100th anniversary of the Republic? We're not enemies, we're rivals. In the past, you've co-operated in politics, you've been in power. Of course, we may have criticized you then. I've just told you that these reviews are presented as true, rational facts, and we're going to take advantage, we need to make use of them, we need to correct them if we're wrong, but if Aleppo's there, that's where he is. The point we're coming to is that if it shows that Turkey is in a better place and it's going to get better, then we all need to be happy about it.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0079par0082	Let's go out on the street and ask the public. What do the people say?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0077par0083	My dear friends, so this success story is the success story of our nation. We thank our nation, we faithfully take care of its trusts, and hopefully in the 100th year of our republic, we will place Turkey among the most powerful countries in the world. Dear friends, Turkey will no longer return to the old days. Turkey has enjoyed democratic stability, law, justice, growth, prosperity and development. We're not going back. We're just going forward. Turkey's normalisation in the direction of democracy will continue with determination. We will never give bonuses to efforts to darken democracy. We won't give a chance to those who set up democracy. We will continue our struggle until the umbrella of democracy and law surrounds all our citizens. We will never allow law institutions or any of our other institutions to become militants. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) We will walk in the same direction as our state and nation with legal reforms. With the contribution of all social groups, we will make a new constitution with as much understanding as possible with all of our political parties, and we will be free of 30 years of shame. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, dear lawmakers, it's true that in the past of this country there have been dark events that have left deep traces in each of our people's hearts, that have disturbed all of our consciences, that have hurt each and every one of us separately. Today we are still suffering from those dark times. In the speech of Mr. Buldan, we can all find these painful days. Almost every day, one of our shell - bound wounds appears; we read, remember, grieve, and say, "Yes, these things have happened, these things have happened in this country." We have sacrificed many of our young people, many of our generations, who have the hope of this country, to these dirty games. Unfortunately, in his own vicious strife, the political institution failed to show the strength, the will to show it. Instead of reducing social tension, the political institution often followed tension. What happened back then? Turkey lost. We've all lived these years together. We've been through almost all our lives with coups, tributes, pressures, lawlessness, crises. Some forces that didn't feel compelled to answer to anyone have been able to play horses in this country as they wanted; they ignored law, democracy. Our young people, our intellectuals, our idea men have been seen as potential criminals. Instead of thinking big in the atmosphere of oppression, politicians were condemned to be small and mine. And those who want to keep politics under constant guardianship, keep the political institution's intervention under constant pressure, keep it small, keep it your message. A prime minister elected by the vote of this nation was sent to the coffee table after a trial process, a stain that will not be forgotten in our history of law. Young men were put to death by growing old because they were underage. The people of this country have been subjected to years of oppression and persecution as an excuse for their ideas, political preferences, religion, beliefs, sects, sluts. For years, the wounds continued to bleed, the consciences ache, because we could not face these sufferings. Today we understand that no matter how many disagreements there are in this country, no matter what points of conflict our people have been exposed to each other, there's always an unnatural, unnatural prior to that. We understand that someone has made special efforts to disturb our peace, to break our faith and commitment to each other, to destroy our respect for each other's law. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, after our people have seen all of this, they appreciate democracy, law, justice much better today. We now know that a functioning democracy, a system of justice free of controversy, is a common gain for all of us. Of course we're short.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0080par0090	There are arrested MPs, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0077par0091	But now we all know what steps are necessary. Now we all know that we can't be a big country without running democracy, building justice, making freedoms live on the highest level. To us, it is the duty of both state and politics to serve man, to establish justice. If the values of politics are lost, the state can't protect people's law. Economic gains in countries without political stability are very short-lived. We've all seen examples of this together. The most fundamental priority of development projects, dreams of development, growth strategies is law and democracy today more than ever. We must eliminate all disputes that make our people bitter and hostile within the law of brotherhood. None of our issues are unresolved. Nine years ago, we solved our unimaginable problems, and we're gonna solve the rest of our problems. We're gonna cover up whatever wounds this country has that are bound or bleeding. In the meantime, let's balance well so we don't get stuck in the past, let's lose hope of the future with the wrongs of the past. Now, let's appreciate each other. Let's not sacrifice our young generations to fear, to enemies, to evil intentions. Let our children, our young ones, not worry about their thoughts, their fears while they dream well for our country. While the whole world is in the throes of the global economic crisis right now, we're talking about a future, an advanced, powerful, prosperous Turkey. This is a great privilege, and it is a blessing to be thankful for. There's opposition, there's criticism, there's humor, there's irony, there's empathy. It's the beauty of democracy, but it's not the time to repeat past mistakes and forget our original issues. Our concern is to move Turkey to the light tomorrows that it deserves, to give our people the happiness and pride and excitement they deserve. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers are stepping in as democracy and the economy rise in Turkey, and those who want to stop Turkey's rise are coming in. And now France wants to judge history, as you all say and think. My dear friends, our friends have told us everything about France, and the announcement has been issued. Everyone's talking about his past criminal record. They talk about the massacres in Algeria, about what they did in Africa, about what they did in Rwanda. I can add Vietnam to that. We are also well aware of the struggle of my beloved against the French invaders. But put it all aside, and turn to yourself, and think: Why is the name of Maraş today called Kahramanmarash? Why did we call Urbana Şanlıurfa? Why is Antwerp a veteran? Who did we fight for independence against? Who did we get our inheritance from? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear friends, the Hawkmen, the Milkyman Imams, the women-men's martyrs, our young, newly-grown young men, did not stand before the French invasion fighting the country's independence with their weapons and their bayonets as a French invader? To remind you of all this, there is no genocide in France. The prison penalty will vote tomorrow for a bill that will fine 45,000 euros. Our council is struggling, our MPs are there. He also sent a letter to our Prime Minister Sarkozy. Mr. President has also made statements, and the Turkish nation is in a great deal of improvisation. Today we have all witnessed the words of Orhan Dink, the brother of Hrant Dink, and the challenge of the Armenian Patriarch against the diaspora, which is truly pleasing to all of us. What's that supposed to mean? There are no genocides. They're going to fine anyone who says there's a prison sentence and 45,000 euros. This understanding that turns away from rationality, science, universal legal logic is the return of the Inquisition to France, which opened the Age of Enlightenment. This is the French Parliament opening a flag to the basic values of Europe. As a lawyer friend of yours who led the struggle for independence in Turkey's Grand National Assembly for a while, you can't rewrite and rebuild history with no Parliament resolution and no law. It goes against the nature of things, against reason, against reason. It's as irrational as putting the world's most famous scientist, Galileo, in prison for saying that a thesis, an opinion, even a thought, is being punished in advance. It's a mind-blowing delusion that history has been taken away from historians by a ridiculous law. The voting of a delusion in the French Parliament is a paradox that will go down in history. No matter what the French Parliament decides, our answer to the new inquisitors is the same as the famous scientist Galileo, who was subjected to torture because he said the world is returning. We say to the French parliamentarians, ladies and gentlemen, the world is turning. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are a multi-dimensional and multi-dimensional country in terms of the foreign policy agenda and its responsibilities. Turkey is also a country of Europe, both Asia and the West and the Balkans and the Middle East and Caucasus. For nine years, we carried out a highly active policy to give us the right to our central position and the mission our historical savings have imposed on us. As in the past, Turkey did not run its foreign policy independently of domestic policy. The more our democracy developed inside, the stronger our ability to act out. Thanks to our active policies, Turkey has felt its effectiveness and presence in all parts of the world. We didn't just follow a reactionary policy. We have been involved in developments at the right time, especially in crisis areas. We've taken the appropriate stand for Turkey's dignity in the face of developments we've never wanted to see happening in our region. Especially in Arab geography, the faces of hundreds of millions return to Turkey, and the fact that Turkey is an inspiration is a confirmation of this historic mission of our country. The historical renewal of this geography has shown that Turkey, with its entire savings, has a central importance for regional and global peace. Its properties make Turkey, in its own way, not an ordinary country, but a powerful, important actor. Turkey can't be an indoor, passive, indifferent country, even if it wants to, and can't pretend to be such a country. My dear friends, I'm going to continue by answering a few of the issues that some of our friends from the political party representatives who are speaking to us. First of all, I think the paintings of our Republican People's Party, Mr. Canikli, and Mr. Finance Minister, our concerned ministers, Mr. Ali Babacan, are sufficient responses to the words of our two dear friends, who have expressed their savings in all economic matters. And in a little while, I'll probably repeat some of those numbers. Of course, we are also interested in his words about freedom. We all know how we feel about that. There are different nuances among our political parties, which may differ at some points, but we are a government that prioritizes freedom, human rights, rule of law. I've made some preparations today to think that there are some issues that have been talked about, discussed in daily politics, and I've done some work on them in case they come up here, but today the budget has been rescinded. Therefore, I do not find it appropriate to give an answer to that kindness in the daily and some infertile disputes. So I'd just like to answer Mr. Mehmet Shandir's statement on a matter or two. My dear friends, Mr. Shandir has criticised the AK PARTY governments on one or two points of his fine speech. Of course it's their rights, I'm not saying no to any of them, it's a place of criticism, but I think it's at least wrong, and I believe it's unfair to blame the AK PARTY over this sentence. That's exactly the way the sentence is, it's about getting to know the Kurdish identity that Mr. Prime Minister is referring to: "This is an act of ineptitude." So he's trying to tell us that it's probably more than a slip of the tongue. Friends, recognition of Kurdish identity is a very important issue, a human rights issue. I believe Mr. President and Mr. President of the Republican People's Party don't feel the same way about it. So I'm a person living in Turkey, and I'm proud of who I am, and I want to be known for that fact. When he says that, we have to respect that, we have to accept that. That may not have been the case with a denial and assimilationist belief in the past. We all know what has happened to Turkey today. A man is honored by his own identity, and Mr. Baykal and Mr. Kilicdaroglu say the ethnic identity is the honor of that man. So when you say that, no doubt, it's just that I'm Kurd. He says, "I'm Arab." He says, "I'm ethnic," and so on. We have to respect all of them, know that they all have human rights that come naturally. The Kurdish issue, or Kurdish identity, was not an identity that emerged thirty years ago, 20 years ago, the existence of Kurds has been real for at least a thousand years, you can't deny that. (EC PARTY AND BDP APPLAUSE) You can't deny that. If you deny that, we'll go back 80 years, then we'll go back 80. The Ambassador is not here, and I ask God for a cure. During his ministry, he was imprisoned for two and a half years because he said that I was Kurds and that there were Kurds living in Turkey. You want us to go back to that? Denial of a person's identity is like denying that person. I counted him as Kurd, Arab I.D., Bosniak I.D., whatever you can think of, my BDP friend Saryani, all of whom, whoever, whatever is on this land, will speak freely of his identity. We're gonna respect that identity, we're gonna give all the cultural rights, constitutional rights to that identity, we're gonna recognize it, we're gonna respect your language, that's what's gonna happen. [[Applause from AK PARTY and BDP rows]] By saying these things, by giving them, it's not right to make a synonym for terrorism. He didn't mean it either, but from the days when the identity denial and the people who set out with it were banned from speaking Kurdish to the tortures in prison and then to the unsolved murders, to the death lists, all of this is a bad result from the denial of an identity. No, we won't deny it. I may not agree with 99% of what my BDP friends say, but I respect their identity, I believe they have political rights, they should do politics to the end. There's only one thing we're going to reject, and we're going to see wrong: we're against racism, we're against negative nationalism. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In this, of course, I believe personally that it is wrong for a man who says, "I am Kurdish." I am Turkish. I believe that it is wrong for a man to become a Turk, and that as these wrongs grow, they spoil social peace in the country. We reject racism, vehement nationalism, all the sentences that end, all the sentences that end, but I am Kurdish. We will give as much life as any of us in this country, as much as any of us, as much right to life, knowledge, right to education, right to language, right to culture, right to identity. That's not something we give out of our pocket. Dear friends, if ethnically based politics are being done, we'll criticize them, but Kurdish identities... Look, I just remembered that Mr. Nursel Aydoğan spoke for his group here. Nursel Aydoğan Ma'am, a resident of ours who was born in Bursa Yenişehir, was just standing next to Pervin Buldan. So a Turkish-identified politician and a Kurdish-identified politician can work together at the same party. We should be proud, I'm happy. What could be more beautiful than that?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0081par0118	Büşra Ersanlı...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0077par0119	This is the power of democracy. It is the power of democracy that Mr. Zana comes here ten years later and swears! (EC PARTY AND BDP APPLAUSE) Yeah, people pick, the future politics. Is it just there? We also have a Kurdish brother in the MHP, who does politics. We have friends inside the CHP, who do politics. We have many Kurdish brothers in my party, we do politics together, we honor them, we are strong with them.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0082par0122	Please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0077par0123	Look, we'll accept the existence of ethnic identity. It's not just a favor, it's not a tip, it's not a howl. You will respect all the rights of the person you know. If his politics are wrong, you tell him he's wrong, but telling him what's wrong is not in denial.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0083par0124	Why don't you talk about Cemevs?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0077par0125	My dear friends, the second word of Mr. Shandir is about Syria. Our foreign policy regarding Syria is very clear and clear. I also spoke to Mr. Shandır in private, and I agree with all his concerns, and I agree with his questions. When we wake up every morning, we have only one concern: How many citizens of Syria I mean today -- our friend, our relative, our brother, died, how many were arrested, how many were lost? They're over 4,000 or 5,000 today, folks.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0084par0126	Do you also think about the ones in Bahrain, the ones in Yemen?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0077par0127	Our proximity to regimes is intergovernmental relations. Our true friendship and loyalty are the people, we are with the people. If a regime betrays its people, a regime raises a weapon against its people, if a regime launches an inquisition against its people, you can't talk about our friendship. We do our duty of warning, we take precautions. It's fitting for the Turkish nation who've lived in the same geography for centuries. So that's what we do in politics. See, it's not our job to get involved in the internal affairs of any country, and we don't want to interfere, but you know it better than March 1, 2003, and those in Parliament at that time know it. You don't see an outside intervention as a primary target in Turkey's foreign policy, but we must follow foreign policy until the next day, 24 hours every morning, thinking about national interests, thinking about human rights, and taking precautions. The question was, is Turkey considering intervention, etcetera? We don't have that kind of priority in our foreign policy. We hope that the terms will not bring Turkey or the foreign countries to this point. Remember the United Nations, the decisions of the Arab Union, and remember the suffering and persecution of the two peoples who are intertwined on a border that is more than 700km long. Our policy towards Syria is to get the Syrian people out of this oppressive regime as soon as possible, to get reforms done quickly, to return to democracy under healthy conditions. He thinks our policy is a success, and I want to say that we will continue. My dear friends, we've all seen Mr. Buldan's speech together. Mr. Buldan, of course, there's a lot of facts in this conversation, but there are brutal findings. I mean, I'm not going to read your statements here, it's already in the transcripts -- it's not right to completely deny it, to declare it guilty. I understand your pain, I respect your pain, and I share your pain. I'll make sure...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0085par0131	I know, Minister.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0077par0132	But it's not just you who's going through this pain. I find it difficult to understand the reaction to Oya Eronat. He is a man who experienced that pain when his 18-year-old child was killed right in front of him. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Friends, I'd like to say that you have lost your closest, your wife, in cold blood. Hopefully, the real perpetrators of this incident will be found out, and they'll be questioned. It's our duty. My dear friends, when I was the Speaker, he was not among us now- Mr Kemal Anadol came, some friends came. There's a famous housing murder, you all know, '91, '92, that happened back in the day. The son of an Izmir MP named Erol Güngör was killed in a strange way, God rest his soul. So I'm sorry to express our friend's pain by saying his name. It's covered up. He said, "It is our duty, and your duty. Let's set up a parliamentary research commission, and let's take this matter as Congress. I said, "That's right, how right you are." The parliamentary research commission has been established, and we've reached some very important findings. Yes, this case is now on trial. There's a statute of limitations, there's no time, we're not going to go into them, but even years from now, we can't accept unsolved murders, being thrown into wells, being killed with acids, with this, with this, with this, with this, with this, with this, with this, our government.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0086par0136	You have the authority to expose them, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0077par0137	We are not the government of the 90s, the 80s, the 70s. We weren't in the Maraş incident, we weren't in the Sivas incident, we weren't in all the unsolved political assassinations.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0087par0139	Who are the attorneys of Sivas?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0088par0140	How many MPs do you have who represent Sivas?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0089par0141	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0090par0142	Oh, you might want to say this. (CHP rows) It's a famous joke...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0091par0143	Sivasta...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0090par0144	We weren't... we weren't...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0092par0145	How many lawyers are there, how many are there?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0091par0146	Where are the lawyers of Sivas?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0093par0147	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0094par0148	Friends, please, don't be so violent.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0095par0149	The lawyers of Sivas...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0093par0150	Please do not interfere, Mr. Hatibe.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0094par0151	When the Sivas incident happened, there was the Right Path Party and the SHP partnership. The late Erdal Inönu was Deputy Prime Minister. We know them all by name. We know exactly which party was in power in the Maraş incident. I, the EC PARTY, have been in charge of these tasks since 2002. I remind you of my duty to clarify the events before this and to find the perpetrators. That's what we're gonna do. How are we going to do that, my dear friends? So you hold us responsible for events that happened 10 years, 20 years, 30 years, 40 years ago, Mr. Buldan. There's a joke about that. When one of them met a Jew, and he choked his throat, he said, "You killed Jesus Christ, and I will kill you." I didn't kill my brother, Jesus Christ. How come you didn't kill him? You killed him. But it happened a thousand years ago. Look at the logic of the Janitor: it may be, but I've just heard it. So these events that you're telling me now have happened at these times, these dates, but you have a very incriminating sentence that you hold us responsible for answering in front of history.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0096par0152	You have the authority to expose them.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0094par0153	We will, just like this: we've taken down 55 mobsters, we've brought down a criminal organization.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0097par0154	How did the task force evacuate, Mr. Arinc?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0094par0155	Turkey was the Mafia's paradise before we arrived. Every check, every note collection, up to his scalpel, up to his whale, whatever, there were no letters left in the alphabet, so we took them all down today, they're on trial. (AK PARTY) Oh, these are criminal organizations, criminal organizations for profit... we've been on top of others. Today the independent judiciary is asking for their account. Look, the private harpists said there was a body over there, and I saw it myself. Today the court has decided that the tomb will be opened, DNA tests will be conducted, whether it belongs to that person, until the unknown, until political assassinations, yes, it is our duty to enlighten them, yes.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0098par0156	You have been in power for ten years. Who protects Green? Why are you hiding the green?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0094par0157	We've done a lot in ten years, we'll do more for another ten years, God willing, don't worry.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0098par0159	Where's the green, Green?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0094par0160	My dear brothers, look, what happened in the past...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0098par0162	Where's the green, Green?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0094par0163	You go around the streets with that dirty flashlight of yours.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0099par0164	Mr. Young... Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0094par0166	Come on, come on... look, here's the President General, I address him, I address the General Assembly. You're carrying it for nothing.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0100par0167	I'm gonna get you to clean this flashlight, I'm gonna get you to clean it.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0099par0168	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0094par0169	Dear friends, Kamer is a waste of even a minute with the Young One.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0099par0171	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0094par0172	Look, guys, the whole class thing is a disaster. Mr. Buldan came into contact with this, too. Soldiers posing at the start of a cut-off on their hands. It's in my bag. There are some very painful photos in the latest issue of NTV History Mecmua, but it's very complicated. I mean, just because the soldier's got that picture in his hand doesn't mean we can't remember it. This is Saan Agha, a leading member of the Hozadite Bahtiyar clan.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0101par0173	Why don't you remember that Kublai in Menemen?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0094par0174	Saan Agha... It's none of your business.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0101par0176	Kublai, in Menemen.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0102par0177	Mr. Young, please...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0094par0178	You didn't say that for years as a lecturer, you didn't even talk about it. You never mentioned any of this. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] What do you have to do with it? You don't depend on the date, you don't depend on the present. These are the ones who are burning, these are the ones who are burning...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0103par0181	I've been burned more than you!
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0094par0182	...they're the ones who've been talking about the events. Put it down, sit down!
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0103par0184	I'm the one who's burning the most!
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0094par0185	My dear friends...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0104par0186	Congressmans, please, I invite you to remain calm.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0094par0187	Saan Agha, Şahin Agha, yes, his half-brother who cut off his head. Then he took the money from the soldier and handed it to the soldier. Now, as disgusting a murder as the soldier's head and the way he's dealing with it...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0105par0188	Why did you reject the motion to investigate?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0094par0189	His half-brother, who cut off his head for money, he's got that low, he's got that kind of betrayal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] For what it's worth, what's said about my class is the facts of history. We need to focus on these facts.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0105par0192	Why did you reject the motion to investigate?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0094par0193	We need to light up the dark pages of our recent history...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0105par0194	Okay, let's light it up.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0094par0195	But it would be wrong if you tried to cover yourself with a black cover, blaming 80 years of republic history, the savings of that republic, all the powers that have ever existed.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0106par0196	You're doing it.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0094par0197	All the facts come out one by one. My dear brothers, Mr. Buldan, you have one more mistake. You mentioned the people who were killed. These are guerrillas, as you call them. You never said "terror," and you never said "terrorist." So your literature is different. You believe there is no terror, there are those killed as guerrillas, you mourn them. Well, that's wrong.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0107par0199	We mourn humanity, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0094par0200	This is wrong, this is wrong.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0108par0201	Please, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0094par0202	There's terror in Turkey, there's terrorists in Turkey, there's a war on terrorism in Turkey. Are you saying this shouldn't happen, not do it? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear brothers, if the baby in the arson is dying, if four of our daughters are being killed in a taxi, if the eight-month-old child in the womb of the Batman mother is dying, why didn't you save a place for that in your conversation?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0109par0205	Let's set up a commission. Let's set up a truth commission, no matter where it leads.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0094par0206	Our soldiers are dying, our police are being martyred, our judges, our officers, our superiors are being killed, and yet, 200 yards away, the Doves are referring to the life of an innocent shoe painter on the street, which is no place in your notebook. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Friends, terrorists, terrors are fought because it's self-defense. What good things you do to those who try to take people's lives. We can't say. His head is torn off, his hand is gone; these are bad things, things we don't want to see, but friends, that's the way you look at it. Don't we have soldiers on this side who've been killed 24 of them? Don't we have soldiers killed in 33 of them? We're talking about a Turkey where bridges have been blown up, mines have been detonated by remote control, innocent village rangers or people who live in the village have lost their lives. Our duty as government is to fight it. It is our government's duty to protect Turkey's security, Turkey's peace, Turkey's security. I'll tell you something else: we're good at the concept and understanding of today's counterterrorism. Turkey has fought this battle over the past few years, but the last four months have begun to yield results. Today, believe me, I assure you, our armed forces do not have chemical weapons inventory. A number of NGOs used chemical weapons. So you don't believe in the government, the military, the Minister, the Prime Minister, the unknown person there used a chemical weapon, and you believe in it. We don't use it, we don't use it. We don't have that kind of weapon, we don't have that kind of weapon, we're thinking about using it. Using a chemical weapon is a human shame, atrocity. We're against it everywhere. Just so you know, today, no one is pointing a gun at anyone we can't identify as a terrorist or an innocent citizen. First, surrender. It's called, it's answered, it's patient, but eventually it comes out.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0110par0211	Today, two of our citizens died in Midyat.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0094par0212	We know all about Mardin, Midyat, but I'm telling you what you're saying. My dear friends today, believe me, when we're fighting 10 terrorists, the statement of the soldier, the police, is that we've stopped using guns because we can't fully trust them. They were 10 meters away, they ran away, they shot a friend of ours on the run. Today the soldier is flying bombs from above. By at least two kilometers, there may be a human element. There is no bombing. Have you today heard a serious complaint from Northern Iraq, or from the region, that the village has been shot, the house has been shot; that civilians, innocent people have been killed or killed -- until today? He's doing the soldier's bill...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0111par0215	What happened to seven civilians? What happened to the seven civilians in Iraq?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0094par0216	The police, the military, are doing their books, and their terrorist is targeting terrorism. So, there are wrongs... maybe there's some truth to what you're saying, but there's no terrorists in all your talks. The dead are always guerrillas with their heads, arms, legs cut off. Where's the innocent citizen? Where's the soldier? Where's the police? Where's all the writing, all the spillage? Where are the messages? Where are the messages that were delivered or something? Bring them together so we can see if there's anything wrong with justice. In coordination today, and in action, patriotic security forces find their targets, try to catch them, and put their own lives on the line. God will protect them, and God will protect them. I say all this with my heart. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear friends, look, the things we've been aiming at after all these conversations, of course... let me repeat one thing before Mr. Kilicdaroglu arrives. We were at Shebiarus together. You've had a lovely talk. That's what I said before you. Mr. Baykal used to come and speak very well in the previous years. Mr. Prime Minister and I have been trying to say something less than nothing. And all that ye say therein is in Ourselves. As a nation, and especially as politicians, we must all do so well. Today's talks have been spectacularly high, but I know that our friends have been very upset, very bored, that there's been a lot of anger here for hours. Once you enter Parliament, you get high blood pressure, and then all the diseases come after you. We need to get rid of this tension, this tension. As each of our friends goes up on the stand -- and I mean 15-20 people every time I say, so if you want to put me in there, I can't yell that loud, but I don't have a voice, but -- you know what they do? Look at the words spoken, I don't mind repeating them, we're telling each other. In a good manner, we can do what Buldan had done, what I had done, and what Mr. Shandir had done. It's free and it's on the stand. Here, there's freedom. We'll always say the same thing, whether we like it or not.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0112par0221	He's not very free on the stand.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0094par0222	But with a red face and a swollen vein, I hope the negotiations here will not continue. I want to end with a good word. Dear friends... [[Noises in CHP and MHP rows]] All these words belong to the AK PARTY Group, so please don't take them off your hands, but you can have them if you want. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) So I'm telling you, my daughter-in-law, you understand. It's not in the form of a daughter-in-law. I put my own self first. I'm a man who uses this bench from time to time.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0113par0229	Mr. Arinc, I promise you, I'll turn on the microphone.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0094par0230	Two minutes is enough, Mr. President. Guys...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0114par0232	Give me another hour!
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0115par0233	As much as we've given everyone...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0114par0234	Give me another hour, Mr. President!
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0115par0235	Mr. Longhorn, please, there's a book of accounts here. It's been discussed before. We've given the government an hour and six minutes more time. It's over an hour.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0116par0236	I'm so sorry to have upset Mr. Tallimak. I've been on the screen for four and a half hours. Dear friends, a good word says: raise your voice. The voice and the word are different. Beware, thunder is of no use, the rain that falls thinly is a blessing on the earth. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear friends, let's not confuse loud voices with high words -- hopefully my next friend who's going to be after me -- with memorizing speech. We need a high word. I assure you, the loud octave sounds we're shining here, the loud octaves that are coming out of our mouths, are of no use to anyone who talks, no use to Parliament, no use to the nation. We have to be like thin rain. I'm taking lessons for myself. I salute all my friends with respect and love. Good luck with the budget.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0117par0243	Thank you, Mr. Arinc. Now...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0118par0245	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0119par0246	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0117par0247	Okay. Mr. Tünce, if you'll wait a moment, our friends have demands, I'll take them after that.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0120par0249	Mr. President, I've been bullied, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0117par0251	Okay. Those who have spoken before you... let's give you...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0120par0252	No, what's there to laugh about? By telling me my name...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0117par0253	But before you do, Mr. Şandir, Mr. Buldan has asked for a word, let's hear them out.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0121par0254	Mr. President, I'll give my speech, then continue with the taunting.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0117par0255	No, let's get his demands, and then...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0122par0256	Sir, I need to explain the speech of Mr. Arinc, or the word will go up in the air.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0117par0257	I mean, what's that about? That's a general statement, Mr. Şandir.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0122par0258	Mr. Bulent Arinc said I insulted the Prime Minister in a way, he wanted to say. We need to explain that.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0117par0259	Okay. I promise you for two minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0122par0261	Sir, Mr. Bulent Arinc would like me to discuss two...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0117par0262	No, no, two minutes...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0122par0263	I'm going to make a statement on two matters, requesting sufficient time. Please...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0117par0264	We'll give you two minutes for these.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0123par0265	Mr. President, I'm being picked on.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0117par0266	Wait a minute... We'll promise everyone if it's in order. Here you go, Mr. Chancer, two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0124par0271	Mr. President, dear friends, I don't mean to insult the Prime Minister. I say that every time, insulting is the expression of weakness. My words are here. I don't think he'd feel that way if he'd read all of my words here. I say here, Mr. Prime Minister, that I know the Kurdish identity. He has created a new political identity in this community. I know another identity outside of the Turkish national identity, which is a political identity that has been ruled by the votes of this nation. Believe me, dear friends, I regret to inform you that it's an act of unwarrantedness. Dear Bulent Arinc is a very experienced man, and you understand this work; the state cannot be without the nation. Dear friends, the name of the state of the Republic of Turkey, its nation, is the Turkish nation, and this is the Constitution. (Applause from the ranks of the Turkish Republic of Turkey) In addition to this verdict, an intellectual can say, a thinker, a writer can say, but the Prime Minister of the Turkish Republic, which the Turkish nation has chosen, as a political identity, if I know another identity outside of the Turkish nation in this nation, will create a new political identity, which is called separatism. That's what we're saying. Otherwise, we're not interested in anyone's lineage, he's private, respectable. Each of us has a family; he has a family; he belongs to us; but if you make this a collective right, you divide this nation, and you divide this country. That's what we want to say. Second: the Iraq thing, the Syrian thing. Look, Precious Arinc, Dear Deputy Prime Minister, we know Libya, we know Iraq, we know what was done before the United Nations decision in Libya. Now in Syria... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Why is it that you don't mind us warning you that the same things are going to happen?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0125par0277	Thank you, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0124par0278	In Syria, with 3 million Turks and Kurds, with Circeşal, with Dagestan...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0125par0279	Thank you, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0124par0280	millions of people live, and today they are hostile to Turkey, hostile to you.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0125par0281	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0124par0282	That's what we're talking about. Mr. Arinc's feistyness was not right. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0126par0286	Thank you. Here, Mr. Buldan, why don't you, uh...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0127par0288	Mr. Arinc said I used my name to twist things and not express the facts. I want two minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0126par0289	Now, actually, I think this whole bullying thing is being used very broadly.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0127par0290	It's not teasing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0126par0291	You said something, and he said something back. That's the essence of this conversation. As this goes on, you said it, because he said something else... please, don't let another tease get in the way because I can't promise you anyway, unless there's bullying.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0127par0293	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, we just applauded Mr. Arinc's first speech. He mentioned Kurdish identity, Mr. Arinc, about Kurds, about Kurds, about Kurds, about the identity of Kurds, and we applauded him, and he said that some of the statements that we did alone didn't mean the truth. We'd like to say to the government, Mr. Powers, that dealing with the past is a historical obligation for states, Mr. Arinc. We bring the commission of justice and truth to the table here, but you always reject our research proposals. We want to say that we don't approve of any form of death or violence, Mr. Arinc. So you just said, "Let's have a new day here." You said, "You liked the talks here, and we're telling you, yes, if you want a new day, expose all the murders, release the prisoners, release the MPs, the mayors, the lawyers...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0128par0295	Murderers!
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0127par0296	...the journalists, the politicians, let them all go, and we'll give you a round of applause, Mr. Arinc. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0129par0299	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0130par0300	Mr. President, tell me twice...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0129par0301	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0130par0302	Now, for the first time, a congressman was pushed here, and he'll know his place, and he'll follow the rules. Second, he spoke of my name and said in this Parliament, Kamer Young does not suffer, and he is not worth considering. It's a very obvious tease.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0129par0304	Now, Mr. Young, I don't know if that's exactly what he meant, but there's a difference, I promised two of our dear friends, that they had spoken on behalf of their group in accordance with the Civil Code.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0130par0305	But now, he means me in his speech.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0129par0306	Look, you guys are talking out of there, you know, it's not very proper, you're talking out of order, and then you're taking over a general assessment.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0130par0307	No, no, no general assessment.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0129par0308	I'll get the transcripts, and if that's the case, I'll give you my word, but now...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0130par0309	Mr. President, look, I'm the one he's talking about now. I'm the one who was pushed out of that stand, forced out of there, and he'll know what he's doing. And also...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0129par0310	Now, okay, I'll get the transcripts. If there's ever really any kind of bullying, I promise.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0130par0311	Mr. President, look, I'm afraid...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0129par0312	But you're always talking to the police from where you're sitting.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0130par0313	Sir, I didn't make a promise. I said...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0129par0314	Our other two friends are speaking on behalf of their group.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0130par0315	Mr. President, sir, if he promised me...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0129par0316	You are now demanding a word according to the Civil Code, but I've been expressing one thing from the beginning: any words, any words, are in the Civil Code. For him, I'll get the report now.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0130par0317	Mr. President, look, he said to me, "Camer Young doesn't feel pain." And he told me about Dersim.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0129par0319	Look, I'll get the report.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0130par0320	But let him rest. Not with this noise. He spoke of my lesson, and said, 'Camer Young doesn't suffer.' That offends me, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0129par0322	But I'll get the report.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0130par0323	Mr. President, you're giving everyone two minutes. What are you going to lose? Give me two minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0129par0324	Let our friends bring the report, according to 69, I say I will see if I can get it for you.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0130par0325	Mr. President, give me two minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0129par0326	I'll get the report first. For him, now, against the bill...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0130par0328	Now, Mr. President, look, you're always biased. When are you going to act justly?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0129par0329	Look, I'll rephrase. Ladies and gentlemen of the group, look, I'll make a statement: I'll bring the statement. Let me see, if the ordinances of the Civil Law give you this opportunity. But you're always saying things.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0130par0330	Mr. President, I didn't answer. I mean, I said one thing. Does he have the right to offend me with one word?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0129par0331	And I say, "Is your attitude correct? That's where the trouble comes from. We've been having a good argument for five hours, six hours.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0130par0332	So I'm asking you, look, make it a fair president. He picked on me. Please, promise me you won't pick on me. Don't be so impressed by this group, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0129par0339	Mr. Muharrem, deputy chairman of the Republican People's Party Group Yalova MP, will now speak only on behalf of his own. Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0131par0342	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute you all. And before I speak, I condemn the French Parliament's attempt to make history by law, and I say to the Prime Minister I just saw, "Get well," I pray God to heal him. Mr. Arinc, you just told me a joke, so I thought I'd fix it. You did it a thousand years ago, he said from Jesus Christ... then it must have been two thousand years ago. Two: you said "The Beast." He's not a Janitor, he's supposed to be a Christian. A thousand years ago, there were no new ones. It wasn't a thousand years ago, it was two thousand years. So the joke's all wrong. If your stories are like your jokes... which I think they are. Now, you see, dear lawmakers, I'm participating in the tenth budget talks in this Parliament. In the nine budget talks, you've been constantly doing debris literature, blaming previous governments, but in this budget, you've done something different, you've been dealing with the republic. In the first week, all lawmakers on the stand, all AKP lawmakers met with the republican era, questioned it. Now, I'm going to give you some suggestions. My advice to those in this logic is: One: Judge Syed Corporal for violating the laws of gravity by removing a 275-pound bullet alone. Second: Punish the Nusrat miner for disrupting sea traffic in Çanakkale. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Three... Mr. President, will they shut up?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0132par0352	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0131par0353	Mr. President, will they shut up? You're gonna shut him up?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0132par0354	Please... please...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0131par0355	You're giving us your word?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0132par0356	Please, don't interrupt Hatibi, my dear friends.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0131par0357	I want extra time, and please shut him up.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0132par0358	Please... please... Yes, Mr. Slim, go ahead.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0131par0360	They ate a minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0132par0361	No, it hasn't been that long, dear, but it's not right, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0131par0362	Mr. President, in all of today's talks, Republican People's Party MPs have listened to it all the way to the end, but now your friends can't stand it.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0132par0363	Yeah, they should listen, too.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0131par0364	I'm saying that you judge Ayşe Bhai for taking the child's blanket and covering up the ammunition and causing the child's death in private court. The Greek army is the hilaphate army. You declare Rifat Bövekçi, who opposes the conquest of Sheikhulism, which gives a conquest. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mehmed Akinfëi, who says, "Don't be afraid of our nation, don't be afraid of our nation." The protestor is a bad example to the students. You blame them. I wouldn't be surprised if you took away the ranks of Ismet Pasha, who has changed the good fortune of the Turkish nation, but I wouldn't be surprised if you'd also made governors of Vahdetttin, the memorial tomb to Ebussuud, the memorials to Master Ebussuud, the descendants of Elazığ Governor Ali Galip Bey, who issued an order to arrest Ataturk. Now, members of lawmakers, I'm going to tell you about the landscapes of Turkey; these were the visions that were real. One: dream come true, quarter of a quarter of a gold. Two: dream come true, bribes sell legal food certificates. ▪ Inflation has increased, the newspapers are giving the officer good news. In order to benefit from the union rights, the referendum has to say "yes." Just yesterday in Turkey, it is said that God should not bring it to the police station. It is said that God should not bring it to trial today. They used to call it "slow down." It was called "slow down." It's now called "be of the AKP." It's called "be of the AKP." [[Applause from CHP rows]] Advanced democracy creates a terrorist organization from every opposition group. All of our citizens feel AKP fascism up to their bones. Who's judging the protesters and not the people who did the encrypted exam? Aren't you? The lieutenant's still on trial for information while the Sehven intelligence officers are taking advantage of the statute of limitations. Isn't the economy called flying at the edge of the abyss in the injustice of income? Isn't Turkey the world's second most fragile economy after Venezuela? Don't our school signs get replaced by people who pay? Hasn't the number of files in the executive offices increased by 4 million in nine years? Didn't the Somali baby Muhammad take action in Izmir? Hasn't the village of Akpınar, Nevşehirin Kozaklı, been running for two years? Wasn't the person who should have been called to the prosecutor's office in Milas? Don't let the mothers cry. Haven't 253 soldiers and 33 police been killed since the attempt? ▪ Didn't you start the era of justice as much as your money? Why didn't you pay the rent of four sisters in Ankara? Military debt was a debt of honor, you turned it into a loan. You're the one who banished the officer who posted a report about the Prime Minister on the social networking site in Zonguldak. His mind is free, his conscience is fear for the AKP, while the existence of our free citizens is hope for Turkey. You have nothing to do but sell factories, ports, mines, mountains, plains, pedestrians, and then sell them and sell them and sell them and then sell the history of lies that you have left. One side of the government is injustice and the other is forbidden. You spent a generous amount of earthquake taxes, activated the philanthropists to patch up the earthquake wounds. A police officer in this country told me that I had been released from the PKK. Aren't you the one who called the island wrong, marking the president's term as seven years? We can't help the family who migrated from Van to Antalya. Didn't you say your bedridden father has a salary of $380? Aren't you the one who buried the intersection and tunnel that cost $34 million in Istanbul because it blocked the subway? Now, I'm going to give you the views of the Prime Minister, the minister of this country, who doesn't even know what his mandate is in this country, but the Prime Minister doesn't? The country's most important problem was terrorism, and the Prime Minister didn't pay his respects in Saudi Arabia? Didn't the Deputy Prime Minister remember that he didn't pledge allegiance to the Prime Minister, but the Prime Minister did when he was in bed with the patient? Didn't the Minister of Interior compare earthquake tents to palaces and count the PKK's peoples with their citizens? Didn't the EU Minister make jokes about the truck truck while the trucker was dying, using number 10 oil? The only person who tells the truth in this government is the Minister of National Education who destroys the pink painting, and he says: "We have no resources, we can't appoint teachers." Didn't another MP count touching the Prime Minister as worship? I'll give you the summation of this country. See, the mujahideen are contractors, and now they're tourists. Only four companies took advantage of a regulation changed on February 14, 2009. The closest relatives of one of the four firms have become partners. Near relatives of those who approached AKP from coast to coast have reached Ranta from the coast-side line. To make a brief statement, the system hasn't changed. Those who get by on the system can't change the system. The system hasn't changed, but the system's been changed. The summation of Turkey is that you are generous with state property, you are blind to the question of the citizen, you are ungrateful to the values of the republic, you have become dictator to Turkey. This is the summary of Turkey. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear MPs, now, see, Mr. Canikli -- you said to Mr. Canikli -- "Let me answer you briefly" -- you said: "They applauded you, the CHP members didn't applaud." That's right. We're not lawmakers clapping for the wrong map, that's your group. Number two: In a sense, you told me that you fired the IMF. Look, I'm gonna tell you something. Mr. Prime Minister -- when the budget is over -- I remember saying, "Numan, brother, it's stupid not to talk to the IMF." Who said that? The head of the HAS Party, Numan Bürmümüma., my brother Numan........... my brother....... Two, another: Mr. Canikli, you said: You told me that the head of the IMF is Turkish. You've told me the reasons for this. At some point, you were going to make Mr. Gül, Mr. President, Secretary General of the United Nations. You've given that up, looking for a new place? Is that what you're doing? Third, I really congratulate you. This man has been appointed to the Ataturk Culture, Language and History High Foundation by Mümtazer Türköne, who has offered to make Abdullah Ocalan a pasha. [Bravo!,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, He's right there, he's the keeper, he's the... he's the one who can say, "This is the guy." He's the one who supports him, he's the one who's assigned him to the right place, so that's it. "Abdullah Ocalan paşa."
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0133par0410	It suits you!
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0134par0411	Mr. Slim, I'll give you an extension.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0131par0412	Another: Again, you mentioned the leading country, Turkey, Mr. Canikli. Turkey is the leader, Turkey is strong. Turkey is strong, but Turkish businessmen are not allowed in the hotel room in Paris, and the President of France is not allowed in his phone.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0135par0413	Out of fear...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0131par0414	Look at the leading country, look at the strong country, look at the country we're talking about. Now, the last thing I'm going to say to you, Mr. Arinc, is let's make a correction. You mentioned a beautiful brotherhood, but what was the cult debate in those squares? Who did the sectarian debates in those squares, in the polls? [[Applause from CHP rows]] I also know the Kurdish reality. The first person to say "Solomon Demirel" is Solomon Demirel. DYP-SHP administration. In the early 90s, he told me that he and his late Erdal Inönul had gone to Diyarbakir in the early 90s. Let's keep the records straight. I'm also making this correction so it'll go through the transcripts. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0136par0420	Yes, thank you, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0137par0421	Mr. President, I want your word, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0138par0422	Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, in his own words, has insulted our party, our group, by saying "AKP fascism." I want to talk about bullying according to 69.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0139par0423	Mr. Young is demanding a word, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0140par0424	Yeah. Two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0141par0427	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0140par0428	I'll look into it as soon as your report comes in. He's just coming in.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0142par0431	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. A full slander has just been made using the expression "AKP Fascism." Now, of course, there are many examples of fascism in the world. It's in different countries, it's in Turkey. If you want to see what's in Turkey, you'll be looking at the history of the Republic People's Party, which is colorful, diverse, height-sized, small, and large.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0143par0435	Shame! Shame!
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0144par0436	Mr. Canikli, it doesn't suit you!
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0142par0437	When you look there, you'll see dictatorship, you'll see fascism. Then the point is, if you insist on...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0145par0439	Please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0142par0440	Look, in no time has the Republic of Turkey ever been so democratic. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE, Applause in CHP rows!] Mr. Prime Minister, in what period, what prime minister was criticized at this time? We all see it, and we all know it. Look, guys, if you've got a claim to corruption, you've got it in concrete documents. If you have a claim to those people, none of them have immunity. All of them, as far as we can tell, are regular citizens. This isn't his place. If you're going to take him, you're going to file a complaint with the Attorney General of the Republic. If there is, something will do it. Look, dear friends, yes, the judgment has really changed. Judgement... you are persistently our friends, sir. You are a judgmental backyard. You are interfering with the judiciary. We no longer trust the judiciary. We accept the change of judgment, but you need to change your old habits. So the judgment that you used to be able to instruct, which you used to call a backyard, doesn't exist today. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Judiciary, today all judges have 11,000 judges in Turkey and a truly independent judiciary elected by the prosecutor. You can direct the judgment set by 250 people, but 11,000 judges, you can't direct the judgment appointed by the prosecutor, you can't manage it. If you give up your old habits in your original mind, you'll be back to normal. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0146par0448	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0147par0449	Yes, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0146par0450	Mr. Canikli said there was fascism in the history of the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0148par0451	"Look at your past," he said.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0146par0452	I remind him that when Franco was in Spain, Salazar in Portugal, Mussolini in Italy, Hitler in Germany, scientists who fled from Hitler's persecution came, over 100 scholars who took refuge in Ismet Pasha's Turkey. They worked here in universities. I suggest he read some history.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0149par0454	Okay. Now, lawmakers, first, let's give you a heads-up. And here's the thing: of course, look, it's 14 o'clock. We've been negotiating since 00. On behalf of the proper groups, there's usually no problem with our friends speaking on behalf of the individuals, but Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc is making general assessments as he speaks, and you, now, I'm reading from the transcript. The management here...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0150par0456	Yeah, but before that...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0149par0457	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0150par0458	Okay, fine.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0149par0459	Mr. Young, so if what you're saying is true, then we don't need to...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0150par0460	Well, read it and I'll remind you.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0149par0461	I will now direct this General Assembly according to the Civil Code. You want me to speak according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0150par0462	Yeah.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0149par0463	Now, Mr. Arinc is speaking from the stand.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0150par0464	Yeah.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0149par0465	You're coming, see, I'm reading it exactly: soldiers posing in their hands. It's in my bag. There are very painful photos in the latest issue of NTV History Mechmua. But it's a very complicated thing, so let's not remember that disgusting picture just because the soldier has it in his hand. Saan Agha, a prominent member of the Hozadlı Bahtiyar clan. Why don't you remember that Kublai in Menemen? He says "Saan Agha." Look, he's not responding to your word. It's none of your business. You say Kublai, in Menemen, you speak again. I say Mr. Young, please... So we're warning you, don't do it, let Mr. Arinc finish his speech because there's no such procedure. When you went on about it, Mr. Bulent Arinc, you didn't take it in your mouth as a lecturer for years, you didn't even talk about it. You never mentioned any of this. What do you have to do with it? You don't depend on the date, you don't depend on the present. These are the ones who are burning, these are the ones who are burning...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0151par0472	I mean, he's saying those things to me, and you're not picking on me.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0149par0473	These are the ones who... talk about things. Put it down, sit down! Because you're always negotiating with the Orator.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0151par0474	Mr. President, look, but there's a diversion. Because I...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0149par0475	So, suddenly, the Orator on the stand isn't giving a speech targeting you.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0151par0476	No, he says, "What do you have to do with class?" Mr. President, he says...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0149par0477	When you're making a general assessment, you come in, you talk.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0151par0479	Look, Mr. President, let's understand what we're reading. He says: "What do you have to do with my class?" Why haven't you said anything so far? I've been offering the law for the past semester. Please, just give me two minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0152par0480	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0149par0481	Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0152par0482	Mr. President, in both budget talks and other law-enforcement talks, we often have MPs in Parliament, some of our deputies, from their seats to the speaker on the stand. It's in the nature of things, it's in the tradition of Parliament. The Civil Code does not say: "If the speaker gives an answer to the person who speaks from his seat, it is not a taunt. " If the speaker on the stand is taunting him by mentioning the name of a member of parliament, it is only natural to ask for a word because of bullying, and you should not compromise these beautiful budget talks, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0149par0483	Mr. Hamzacebi, look, I'm aware that if I had promised for two minutes, this would have been over by now, wouldn't it?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0153par0484	E, it would be over.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0149par0485	But look, we're making these kinds of mistakes more and more of a Civil Code decree, and we're doing the wrong thing.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0153par0486	There's six of them, Mr. President, and there's six of them. He calls you a waste of time.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0149par0487	And when we're together, we're all complaining about these practices. The fighting in this House, the noise, it's a lot of uncalled for chatter. The character on the stand breaks down, and without realizing it, there's trouble when he has to answer it. We're all complaining about it together. Otherwise, I'm aware that instead of having this mutual conversation with you, Mr. Young, I'd say two minutes, and I'd be done with it by now. But we see together what a violation of the Civil Code, of tolerance, of such tolerance, of what we have been through, and of what we've been through. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, just for today's sake, knowing that it's not true, knowing that it's not right, I'm undermining this 10 times, today's negotiations are more than usual, as Mr. Arinc put it, and as you all have pointed out, thank you, we've had a very appropriate, mature, leveled discussion, and I'll give you a moment's promise, for his sake.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0153par0490	Two, but, sir...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0149par0491	It's not in accordance with the Civil Code. Look, I'm not opening this door again. As long as I lead the session, there's no way I'm going to tell the guy who's talking again. I'm not going to promise. Here you go. One minute, I give you my word. And don't say anything about it from where you're sitting.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0154par0495	He's the one who's making a fool of himself. He's the one who's responding to the bullying.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0155par0497	Congressmans, I've been here for six semesters, and I've been talking about this class thing, and I have a law proposal last semester. The other day there was a motion to investigate here, and I came up to the stand, and I said, "If you're capable, let's open up this research motion, this investigation. What events have happened in my class, who has killed whom, how many people have been slaughtered, how many have died of toxic gas, their families, women and women... I have said these things. You're the ones who rejected it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, Bulent Arinc preaches here, but he's not telling the truth. The president's protecting him. He's telling me: "You've been pushed off the bench." Didn't your Administrator push me here? Guys, look, Bulent Arinc isn't telling the truth. I said, who are they who cut off the head of Kublai, which is in Menemen? Now I propose again: if you have courage, if you have honor, let's investigate the events of my lesson (x), accept our motion, and whoever has done what they have done. Don't say that again.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0156par0503	Don't talk about it! Don't talk about it!
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0155par0504	Yeah, I'm telling you the truth. So, let's look into this, see if we can find out.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0157par0507	Mr. President, a congressman who can speak of honor?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0158par0508	Yeah, well, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0155par0509	Mr. President, if you could just give me one more minute... you're being biased!
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0158par0510	No, I won't. By the time you got here, look, you didn't get into this mess, you came and picked on me. If you make this a habit, there is no longer any way to apply the Civil Law. We're doing it wrong, we're doing it wrong, we're blocking a healthy meeting here. It's not right.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0159par0511	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0158par0512	Mr. Günay, did you have a request?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0159par0513	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0158par0514	About what?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0159par0515	Personally speaking, I've just heard...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0158par0517	Well, if you'd like to sit down, please...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0160par0518	Mr. President, why don't you take a look at the transcripts?
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0159par0520	Mr. President, my dear friends, our last friend, speaking personally, has implied that with a change of regulations and a change of shoreline, some environments are being given a privilege, a favor. (x) The statement of this statement was found on page 14 of the 45th Unification Tutane, dated 22/12/2011, in the department of Discussions on Last Responsibility. I've been doing the Ministry of Culture and Tourism with my friends for over four years. My knowledge is, if I've given anyone under my signature to someone else's rights, especially if I've given the public their rights, I'm willing to do it immediately if they prove it. (CHP rows) But if our friends who randomly claim certain claims don't prove their claims -- I don't want to say a harsh word -- their name in the law is mufter. I'd like to announce it from here. Our nation is watching these parliamentary talks today on TV. What the Deputy Prime Minister has done in the name of the government...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0161par0524	Mr. President, you're not giving me time, you're not giving us a minute, but the Minister...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0162par0525	You didn't even open it.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0161par0526	That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0163par0527	...it is indeed unfortunate that after a reasonable and calm conversation such random slogans have been raised. But once again, we have an infinite amount of attention not to let anyone take credit for what's rightfully ours. The friends who suggested it should present their documents. Mr. Group Vice President, as the Vice President said, any claim can be made about friends without immunity, if there's any evidence of a claim against us, we'll do what we have to, but no one...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0164par0529	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0165par0530	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0164par0531	Mr. Fine, this is no longer a normal administration.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0165par0532	Sir, there's no explanation...
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0164par0533	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0165par0536	Mr. President, I haven't mentioned the Minister's name, but I would advise the Minister to check the information notes sent to me by the Minister's Ministry. As if I didn't know anything about it, I asked for information when I had the file, I asked for naive information, and they sent me information. In the coming days, I'll hold a press conference and explain. My advice to him is that if Muharrem sees the notes of the knowledge sent to Encel, he will see that what I say is true.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0166par0537	I read those memos.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0165par0538	That's right, so you'll find there's someone close to you. For four people, you'll see it, you'll see it, you'll see it, you'll see it.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0167par0545	Members of parliament, talks on the 2012 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2010 Central Management Computation Bill have been completed. Now, we're going to vote for the 2012 Central Management Budget Law and the 2010 Central Management Act. The drafts are subject to a clear vote. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote of both legislations should be carried out by electronic voting device: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. We will now begin the open vote of the Central Management Budget Act of 2012. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and even with this help, the members who can't get into the system will have their ballots delivered to the presidency within a three-minute period scheduled for a vote. Also, if there are any ministers who will vote by proxy, I'd like them to vote by any minister, the color of the game, and the ballot with his name and name and signature, to deliver it to the presidency within three minutes of the scheduled time for the vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, may I present to you the results of the vote: According to these results, the 2012 Central Management Budget Law has been adopted. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, we begin the open vote for the 2010 Central Management Final Accounts Bill. I'll give you three minutes to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[Checked with electronic device]] (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. Congressmans, I present to you the open vote of the 2010 Central Management Computation Bill: In this case, lawmakers, the Final Bill of Accounts is also approved. Budget and Definite Accounts Bills, thus adopted and legalized. I wish him well for our nation and for our country. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, there's a request for a thank-you speech. Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc will give a thank-you speech, and I'd like to call them to the stand. Here you go, Mr. Arinc.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0168par0573	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all again. Talks on the 2012 budget have been completed, and the government's budget has been approved with your valuable votes. We thank you all for this. I wish our budget to be good for our country, for our nation. Hopefully, we'll be worthy of our nation's efforts to increase peace, prosperity, and happiness in our country. During this period, as I sincerely express in my speech, we need all sorts of criticism, guidance, friendship, friendship. Of course, we will always respect the constructive predictions of our opposition parties. I've touched on some issues in my speech today. First, I put myself in the goal, and I tried to put it out there by saying that I was doing something very flawed and wrong, and I sincerely believe that, and I wish that our Parliament, where the will of the nation is granted, that the heart of our democracy can do good things in the direction of our nation's will. Let's conduct the Parliamental work before we give up respect, kindness, and grace to each other. Today's opposition is tomorrow's power. We accept not only regimes of power, but regimes of opposition and power, democracy, which we sincerely believe in. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. I want to thank all my friends who have expressed their thoughts sincerely since the Commission, who have shared their ideas and predictions with us. Mr. Presidents, members of the group, commissioners, valued members of our Parliament, and my dear friends, who have a financial, spiritual contribution to everything. Have a good evening. My respects to all of you again.
tbmm-2011-12-21sit02spe0169par0580	[[Standing ovations from the AK PARTY]] Thank you, Mr. Arinc. Congressmans, we've completed the intensive budget talks that have been going on for 14 days. (AK PARTY) I thank all political party groups, lawmakers, members of the Plan and Budget Commission and the honorable bureaucrats who have contributed to these talks night and day in the process. Again, I wish you good luck and good luck on the budget. Members of parliament, it is Thursday (December 22nd 2011) at 14 p.m. to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
