tbmm-2011-07-12sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 8th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. According to our constitution, MPs must take an oath before they begin their work. Now, I will call to the stand the members of the law who have not taken an oath before, to those who would like to take an oath in this union. Here you go, Mr. Halici. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mustafa Serdar Soydan... Kemal Milldereli... Jesus Sky... Faik Tunay... Mehmet Siam Kesimoğlu... We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. We will vote for membership in the Republican People's Party Group at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Presidential Court. Now, I'm going to have the Presidential Court sign up for membership by reading the list of candidates reported by the Republican People's Party Group and putting them to your votes: Turkey's Grand National Assembly Presidential Court Şeş Güldal Mumcu İzmir CHP Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Bartın CHP All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The Presidential Court celebrates the elected MPs, and I wish them all the best. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We're going to vote for members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly commissions. I'll have the Justice and Development Party's Party list of candidates shown for their membership read separately according to the 21st Article of the Interior Charter: I submit the reading list to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the reading list to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of the European Union's Integration Commission Mehmet S. Tekelioğlu İzmir I submit the reading list to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Membership, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission I submit the reading list to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of the Human Rights Review Commission I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of the Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Plan and Budget Commission Members Menderes Mehmet Tevfik Türel Antalya I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Members of the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Membership of Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Memberships of Agriculture, Forest and Village Affairs Commission I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I wish you all the best. Members of parliament, it is 15 p.m. on Wednesday (July 13th 2011) to hold a vote of confidence on the Council of Ministers established by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and discuss other tasks on the agenda. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
