tbmm-2011-07-14sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 10th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. According to our constitution, MPs must take an oath before they begin their work. Now, I'm going to call to the stand the members of lawmakers who have never taken an oath before, who would like to take an oath in this merger. Does anyone want to take an oath? No. There are motions to resign from the commissions, I'm having them read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning as a member of the National Defense Commission. I demand that it be done. 14.07.2011 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning my membership in the National Defense Commission. With all due respect, I do. 13.07.2011 I'm resigning my membership in the National Defense Commission. I'll give you what you need. Yours truly. 13.07.2011 Dr. Soner Aksoy It has been presented to your knowledge. The commissions have statements concerning the election of president, vice president, spokesman and clerk, and I will have them read and present to your knowledge: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey's Grand National Assembly Constitutional Commission, President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk election 13/7/2011 Wednesday at 18 p.m. As a result of the draft of 19 (nine) ballots that were collected and used at 00/00, the following members were elected President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk, under Article 24 of the Civil Code, with their names and last names written down. It's presented with respect. Prof. Dr. Burhan Lamb President: Prof. Dr. Burhan Lamb İstanbul (17) Oy Vice President: Mustafa Şentop İstanbul (15) Oy Speaker: Ismet Su Bursa (17) Oy Clerk: Fatosh Gürkan Adana (17) Vote Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Justice Commission, the President, the Vice President, the Speaker and the Clerk for the election on Wednesday 13/7/2011, 18 o'clock. Following the draft of the 20-20 ballots, which were collected and used at 00, they were elected President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk, according to Article 24 of the Council, by taking the vote shown against members whose names and last names are written below. For your information. Yours truly. President: Ahmet Cemalaya Ankara (15) Oy Vice President: Hakkın Kastamonı (15) Oy Speaker: Yilmaz Tunç Bartın (15) Vote Clerk: Harun Arsoneer Konya (14) Oy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The National Defence Commission, the President, the Vice President, the Speaker and the Clerk for the election on Wednesday 13/7/2011, 18 o'clock. As a result of the drafting of the (subsequently used and used) ballots, they were elected President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk in accordance with Article 24 of the Council, with the following votes shown against members whose names and last names are written down. President: Oğuz Khan Koksal Kırıkkale (15) Oy Vice President: Shirin Ünal İstanbul (15) Oy Speaker: Wish Up Slap (14) Vote Clerk: Mustafa Akış Konya (14) Oy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Interior Commission, the President, the Vice President, the Speaker and the Clerk for the election on Wednesday 13/7/2011, 18 o'clock. They were elected President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk, under Article 24 of the Council of Ministers, as a result of the draft of the (23) ballots collected and used at 00, in accordance with the vote shown against members whose names and last names are written below. For your information. Yours truly. President: Muammar Güler Mardin (17) Oy Vice President: Feyzullah Balıklik İstanbul (15) Oy Speaker: Hüseyin Bürge İstanbul (15) Oy Clerk: Gülay Samancı Konya (17) Vote Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Foreign Affairs Commission, President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk election 13/7/2011 Wednesday at 18 p.m. As a result of the draft of 22 (two-thirds) ballots collected and used at 00, they were elected President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk under Article 24 of the Civil Code, as the following votes are shown against members whose names and surnames are written down. Prof. Dr. Tunca Tuskayay President: Volcano Bozır İstanbul (21) Oy Vice President: Mohammed Çetin İstanbul (15) Oy Speaker: Osman Love İstanbul (15) Oy Clerk: Gönul Bekin Şahkulubey Mardin (16) Oy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission was elected President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk on Wednesday (13/7/2011) at 1900 p.m., and was elected President, Speaker and Clerk in accordance with Article 24 of the Council of Ministers, as a result of the draft of 19 (nine) ballots, whose names and last names are written against members. President: Nabi Hunter Eskişehir (16) Oy Vice President: Avni Erdemir Amasya (16) Oy Speaker: Fikri Impulsion Develi (16) Oy Clerk: Osman Çakır Düzce (16) Oy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly They were elected President, Vice President, Speaker, Speaker and Clerk for the election on Wednesday (13/07/2011) at 1900 p.m. (19) and President, Speaker and Clerk in accordance with Article 24 of the Council, taking the vote shown against members whose names and last names are written down. It's presented with respect. Publicity, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission President: İdris Gülluce İstanbul (19) Oy Vice President: Oya Eronat Diyarbakır (19) Oy Speaker: Yasar Karayel Kayseri (19) Vote Clerk: Fatih Khan Ünal Army (19) Vote Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Environment Commission, Vice President, Speaker, Speaker and Clerk election 13/07/2011, was elected on Wednesday (April 2011) under Article 24 of the Council of Ministers, Speaker, Speaker and Clerk following the draft of the 22 (period 2) ballots used and used at 18 (period 2). For your information. Yours truly. President: Erol Kaya İstanbul (14) Oy Vice President: Osman Coffeemaker Karabuk (14) Vote Speaker: Sebahattin Karakelle Erzincan (14) Vote Clerk: Aydın Şengül İzmir (14) Oy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission, President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk was elected on Wednesday (13/07/2011), under Article 24 of the Council of Ministers, acting president, Speaker, and Clerk, as a result of the draft of 21 (half-one) ballots used at 7:00 p.m. For your information. Yours truly. President: Cevdet Erdöl Ankara (15) Oy Vice President: Türkan Dağoğlu İstanbul (15) Oy Speaker: Ismail Tamer Kayseri (15) Vote Clerk: Sevim Berker İstanbul (15) Oy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Agricultural, Forestry and Village Affairs Commission, President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk election 13/7/2011 Wednesday, 18 p.m. As a result of the draft of 21 (a third) ballots collected and used at 00, they were elected President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk under Article 24 of the Civil Code, taking the vote shown against members whose names and last names are written below. For your information. Yours truly. President: İbrahim Yiğit İstanbul (16) Oy Vice President: Mehmet Erdoğan Adıyaman (16) Oy Speaker: Mehmet Erdem Aydın (16) Oy Clerk: Tülay Babushcu Balıkesir (16) Oy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Grand National Assembly of Turkey was elected President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk for the election Wednesday (13/7/2011), President, Speaker and Clerk of Information, under Article 24 of the Council of Ministers, under the ballot of the twenty-two (22) ballots that were collected and used at 1900/2011. For your information. Yours truly. President: Mahmut Mujahit Nutmeg Malatya (21) Oy Vice President: Hüseyin Sadiz Konya (16) Oy Speaker: Halil İbrahim Mazcıoğlu Gaziantep (21) Oy Clerk: İlknur Denizli İzmir (21) Vote Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly They were elected President, Vice President, Speaker, Speaker and Clerk on 13/7/2011, under Article 24 of the Council of Ministers, President, Speaker and Clerk, following the draft of nine (9) ballots used and used at 7:00 a.m. It's presented with respect. President: Mehmet Danish Çanakkale (7) Oy Vice President: Halil Product Afyonkarahisar (7) Vote Speaker: Ali Aydınlıoğlu Balıkesir (7) Oy Clerk: İsmail Aydın Bursa (6) Oy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Plan and Budget Commission, President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk election 13/07/2011, 18 o'clock. As a result of the draft of 34 (out of four) ballots collected and used, the following were elected President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk under Article 24 of the Civil Code, taking the vote shown against members whose names and last names are written down. For your information. Yours truly. President: Lutfi Jon Karaman (31) Oy Vice President: Süzeyya Sadi Bilgiç Isparta (31) Vote Speaker: Ahmet Orphankaya Kayseri (30) Oy Clerk: Vedat Demiröz Bitlis (30) Vote Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Commission for Public Economic Initiatives; the President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk Member for Election 13.07.2011 Wednesday at 18 p.m. As a result of the draft of 21 ballots, which were collected and used at 00, they were elected President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk under Article 24 of the Council, by taking the vote shown against members whose names and last names are written below. It's presented with respect. President: Fahrettin Poyraz Bilecik (17) Oy Vice President: Ahmet New Samsun (17) Oy Speaker: Murat Gökturk Nevşehir (17) Oy Clerk: Faruk Septioğlu Elazığ (17) Oy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey's Grand National Assembly Commission for Integration of the European Union; the President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk election 13/07/2011 Wednesday at 18 p.m. As a result of the drafting of 17 ballots collected and used at 00, they were elected President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk, under Article 2 of the European Union's Law on Integration and 4847, taking the votes shown against members whose names and last names are written below. It's presented with respect. EU Compliance Commission Interim President President: Mehmet Konham Tekelioğlu İzmir (17) Oy Vice President: Şaban Tooth Sakarya (17) Oy Vice President: Hope Oran İstanbul (17) Oy Speaker: Cahit Bağcı Çorum (17) Oy Clerk Member: Yusuf Ziya Irbeç Antalya (17) Vote Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Commission for Equality of Women's Opportunities; the President, Vice Presidents, Speaker and Clerks; was elected on Wednesday (13/07/2011) under Article 24 of the Council of Ministers, Speakers, and Clerks, as a result of the draft of the (23) ballot used (23). It's presented with respect. President: Saint Sibel Gönul Develi (23) Oy Vice President: Öznur Çalak Malatya (23) Vote Vice President: Binnaz İz İstanbul (23) Oy Speaker: Tülay Kaynarca İstanbul (23) Oy Clerk: Mesut Dedeoğlu Kahramanmarash (23) Oy It has been presented to your knowledge. There's a motion for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The creek deposits have been completely destroyed and have been flooded in heavy rains by an infrastructural construction on the border of İstanbul's Paperhouse Creek and Bakırköy-Bahçelievs and Küçükçekmece. As a matter of fact, on 9 September 2009, because of the flood in Istanbul, the Ayamama Creek failed, and the buildings that were built on riverbeds contrary to zoning were flooded with floodwaters that flooded the Press Express Road, causing 31 people to lose their lives and millions of dollars in financial damage. In official statements from authorities following this flooding incident, the buildings on the creek beds destroyed the creek beds, so it was inevitable that such conditions would occur in heavy rains, and if the creeks were not reformed, revenge would be terrible, but so far they have not taken serious steps. Despite the fact that there is no positive debate on the Paperhouse Creek, illegal plazas and businesses have been built, and both streams have reached the point of total annihilation. In a possible flood, he may face a similar disaster caused by the Ayamama Creek (in 2009) and the loss of 31 people. In the event of a possible flood, similar incidents that resulted in the deaths of 2009 occurred on Paperhouse Creek and Ayamama Creek, and the discovery of illegal structures that destroyed the creek beds, the destruction of these buildings, and the detection of public officials who allowed these buildings to be built, and the restoration of these streams, the Constitution's 98th and the TBMI Internal Charter 104th and 105th, in order to ensure that those streams are restored. In accordance with the clause, we respectfully submit to the opening of a parliamentary investigation. 1) Aydın Agha Ayadın [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 4) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 9) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 11) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Erzincan]] [[İstanbul]] 16) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 18) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[Adıyaman]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sinop]] Because of the illegal buildings built on the Paperhouse Creek and the Ayama Creek, the creek beds have been completely destroyed, and in heavy rains these streams are flooded, flooding floods are entering buildings on riverbeds, and causing loss of life and property by moving them to the surrounding roads. WHEN multi-layered plazas are rising over the creek beds, the ISKI has no positive views. However, as the plazas that dry these creek deposits rise, authorities stand in front of it and watch it happen, rather than prevent it. Even the unequivocally rising plazas on creek beds are decorated with posters of central and local executives during election times. It encourages illegal building owners. The subject needs to be investigated by the TBMM. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motion will take its place on the agenda, and the debate on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. There's a review of the President of the Motion Commission, and I'm going to make you read it and vote: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The petition commission has also had a request that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be able to work during its holidays. This request, which is approved by our presidency, shall be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 25 of the Court of Justice. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors (14/7/2011) meeting on Thursday (Today) could not be unanimous among political party groups, I request that the following proposal be submitted to the General Assembly's approval of the Council, according to Article 19 of Interior. AK PARTY Group Deputy President Apart from the General Assembly's weekly working days, July 15, 2011, Friday at 18 p.m. It's time to gather at 00, and it's 24 p.m. Keeping working until 00, discussing the legislation and proposals of the agenda and other jobs from the commissions; It's recommended. In favor of the group's proposal, St. Siegel Gönul, MP of the Bigeli. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-07-14sit01spe0002par0296	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers have been proposed by the group since there are not enough majority available on the Council of Counsellors today. I took a pledge in favor of our group's proposal. In our group proposal, the General Assembly is tomorrow, July 15, 2011, Friday at 18 p.m. 24 out of 00. It is foreseen that he will continue his work until 00. I would like to say that we're in favor of our Council of Counsellors, and I'd like to extend my regards to all of you, the High Council.
tbmm-2011-07-14sit01spe0003par0300	How can you be in favor of the Council of Counsellors? Group proposal...
tbmm-2011-07-14sit01spe0004par0301	Thank you, Mr. Heart. Akif Hamzacebi, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement against the Justice and Development Party group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2011-07-14sit01spe0005par0305	Mr. President, I've been promised on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group that the Justice and Development Party's proposal is against you, and I'm here for him. As I begin my words, I salute you all. After a general election, parliament has not yet begun its natural legislature process. The swearing-in ceremony has been completed, and the Turkish Grand National Assembly, including the formation of commissions and other jobs, will be busy with these tasks, but Turkey's Grand National Assembly will begin its legislative process with a proposal brought by the Justice and Development Party Group. I wish this new legislature to be a blessing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to our country. I hope and hope that during this new legislature, the Great National Assembly of Turkey will consider as much compromise as possible, the decisions to be made, the laws to be made, the laws to be discussed in society, the laws in society, and the laws here are parallel to one another, and Turkey's problems will be solved, our country will be opened. Elections are made to solve problems, and each election brings new opportunities to the country. Choice means opportunity, a new future means hope. For the first time, however, after a general election in Turkey, Turkey faced problems, not opportunities, but problems in Turkey, and for the first time, our democracy failed to give its expected test well after an election. There are no problems as a result of the election, but the picture of the election results sparked some controversy in society. The judgment, which should pave the way for freedom, has been an obstacle to freedom in this election. The main institution of politics in democracies is the legislature. The legislature is where the will of the entire nation is, and public support behind the legislature is the most important element of the legitimacy of the legislature of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The higher the public support, the higher the public representation level, the higher the level, the higher the level of legitimacy of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which was formed in the June 12, 2011 elections, is the highest representation level of the period since the 2002 elections. Turkey's Grand National Assembly, consisting of 2002 elections, was made up of two parties, and the two parties represented 54-55 per cent. With the 2007 elections, the rate rose to more than 85 per cent, and eventually, with the June 12, 2011 elections, it reached 95 per cent. This -- as I have just expressed -- Turkey is putting a crucial opportunity in front of the Grand National Assembly in terms of legitimacy; in terms of legitimacy, Turkey is pushing the Grand National Assembly away from debates or offering a very important opportunity to avoid debates. At the same time, such a Parliament -- I hope the Peace and Democracy Party will also be here -- would be an opportunity to overcome Turkey's problems and to ensure that the Constitution is rewritten in accordance with its definition. I've just made some assessments of the legitimacy of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. A high level of representation, such as 95%, makes the Grand National Assembly of Turkey very strong, but if legitimacy is limited to the public's representation level, it will be incomplete. Public representation, representation, the level of representation is undoubtedly very important, but it also requires a few more elements. Legality is the value of recognition of a political system. If the government is making the right decisions, if its decisions are just, then we should really consider this political system or that government as a legitimate and representative of the people. Of course, it's important to be in power by taking majority votes. This is the most natural, most fundamental consequence of democracies, but it's incomplete only if you try to define legitimacy based on the majority. The majority, if they don't respect the rights of the minority, then the system is blocked, leading to the majority's judgment. There was an agreement between the Justice and Development Party and the Republican People's Party last Monday, a beautiful agreement. I'd like to present a statement in that agreement to the attention of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly. Because of the height of the public's representation level in Parliament, which I have just mentioned, this high level of representation offers the Grand National Assembly of Turkey the opportunity to build a new constitution in accordance with its definition of a collective contract. This constitution will be a constitution that will extend the rights and freedoms of the individual and limit the power of the state in the face of these rights and freedoms, preventing the government from interfering with rights and freedoms. This is a subject agreed by the Republican People's Party and the Justice and Development Party. I don't think there's any political party that won't agree with that. That's the important definition. A new constitution in accordance with the definition of a community contract or to ensure that the nation, the citizen, will compromise in the important decisions to be made. The more the Grand National Assembly of Turkey looks after it, the more attention it takes, or the governments or the Justice and Development Party's government internalizes it, the less these decisions will be discussed and the more accurate it will be, the more fair it will be. Otherwise, decisions based on the concept of the majority, the majority, are not going to be democratic. It is extremely wrong to try to justify decisions through the concept of majority. In the past, in the time of the Emevis in Islamic history, Emevis legitimized injustices through the concept of fate, so what should we do, some of the vigilantes, some of the unjust savings, are destined for man. In a sense, the injustices of those Emevi sultans were tried to justify. I'm giving you this as an example. This Parliament may have started with a number of problems, but I would like to show you once again that the level of high representation in this Parliament brings great opportunities to Turkey. The agreement reached between the Republican People's Party and the Justice and Development Party has revealed the need for a new Constitution, highlighting the rights and freedoms our people need. The need stands in front of the community, but I would like to leave this agreement on that day, as a matter of fact, to throw away the ink before it dries up. That's the day he stayed. I think we need to look at tomorrow and the future with a political understanding that is in line with that concept of a community contract, looking for a compromise. I felt the need to express my thoughts on the basis of the Justice and Development Party group's suggestion, on the basis of my opinion of him. That's where I end my words. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-07-14sit01spe0006par0320	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. I submit the proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2011-07-14sit01spe0007par0322	Mr. President, I'd like a word against you, too.
tbmm-2011-07-14sit01spe0006par0323	You didn't have any demands until now.
tbmm-2011-07-14sit01spe0008par0324	Mr. President, in favor of my request for word.
tbmm-2011-07-14sit01spe0006par0325	Haluk Koç, Samsun MP who has asked to be spoken against by the Justice and Development Party group. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-07-14sit01spe0009par0327	Mr. President, thank you. My dear friends, I have made a promise against you that I may be able to interpret some of your thoughts. After completing the swearing-in ceremony, as Mr. Deputy Director of the Group has stated, we have received a group proposal that we will enter into law enforcement. Me, like all my fellow congressmen, right now... tomorrow at 18 o'clock. Why do you have to meet at 00? I'd expect our friend in favor of the ruling party group proposal to make a statement. You asked me to speak, Mr. Canicli, or he was going to vote. Now, we have to respect each other. Once...
tbmm-2011-07-14sit01spe0010par0330	Signed there, Mr. Coach, as president.
tbmm-2011-07-14sit01spe0009par0331	It's signed there, but it's in favor here. Why 18. Meeting at 00? It's not mutate. Ben, for the first time at the end of the ninth year, on a working day of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, it is 18 o'clock. I see you being called to an extraordinary meeting at 00. Why 6:00? Are we waiting for someone? Is there going to be another process as a result of one meeting? Yeah, well, we're gonna have to get to the bottom of this. You have to keep us informed, not just us, but your own friends. It's 18 o'clock. 24 out of 00. So, what law, what proposal, what bill? You'll have to inform the General Assembly on this matter. So, on the first day, Mr. Hamzacebi, they expressed that the pluralism and the majority of the concept have only become coercion in Parliament. It's a long time ago. So when we understand pluralism as a basis for democracy, and we implement it in Parliament, then the parliamentary system begins to function according to its definition. Now, look, I'll say it again: then, Mr. Canikli, I'm criticizing you, I wish you'd taken your word for it.
tbmm-2011-07-14sit01spe0011par0334	I have a written application.
tbmm-2011-07-14sit01spe0009par0335	No, if I didn't take my word for it now, you wouldn't be taking your word for it, and everyone else is here. A lot of my friends are here tomorrow at 18 o'clock. He doesn't know why to meet at 00, and he's 18. 24 out of 00. He doesn't know what to see until 00. I ask you to respect Parliament from day one. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-07-14sit01spe0012par0340	Thank you, Mr. Coach. Nurettin Canikli is a member of Giresun. Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2011-07-14sit01spe0013par0344	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. I made a commitment in favor of our group proposal. Dear friends, I agree with the opinions of my fellow speakers. Of course, the General Assembly needs to be informed about its work schedule, there's no problem with it, it's the most natural right of all our fellow lawmakers, and the task is to be carried out by those of us who have signed under the group proposal, and there is no hesitation in it. Of course, we discussed all of this as we discussed it on the advisory board today, and we explained in detail why we planned such a programme in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I reported it in writing to our president in favour of it, but I think, for some reason, the name has not been seen or read. Otherwise, as Mr. Coach put it, if I didn't object, if I didn't ask for a word, it would have passed, it would have been voted. I'm being very clear, I'm being frank, so we don't have anything else on her side. But we need to inform you, Mr. Coach, I agree, so we don't have the slightest bit of him. Now, if you'd like, why did we bring our proposal for tomorrow at 6:00 p.m., I'd like to pass on it: you know, we were actually going to have concluded the work of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as of yesterday, but there was a need for a postponement of an arrangement, such as the absence of an important part of the unions, if not extended or changed, of which a significant portion of the Union was not authorized. An urgent request came up, an offer like that was made. It's on the agenda of the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission. By 2:00 tomorrow, our Commission will discuss this proposal. If the proposal is discussed, if it is completed, then we will be renegotiated by a new advisory committee and group proposal -- if we agree, if there is no Consultative Council -- after the commission has completed its work with the group's recommendation -- in the General Assembly. It's already a materiality, so it's a three-point, it's a clause, it's a law proposal, it's basically a consensual arrangement that no one opposes, and even demand comes from unions, so it needs to be changed. The commission will complete its work, and we will bring a group proposal for the completion of the work in the General Assembly without waiting 48 hours on the group's recommendation if there is no Consultative Council tomorrow. If it's accepted, tomorrow, all of this work will be completed by the General Assembly, and the work of the General Assembly will be completed, and our fellow lawmakers will be able to go on vacation. So it was thought to be 6:00, so it was planned. Otherwise, it's either Saturday or next week, and there's a schedule like this coming up, or there's no other... We're not waiting for anyone, we're just trying to get our congressman friends to go on vacation as soon as possible. Because of his urgency, he must leave, and the arrangement brought in is that August date is extended to the end of the year. So it's a matter of law, as I put it. If accepted, the period that will be filled in August -- so the criteria for the authorization of trade unions -- the figures published by TÜİK (TİK) -- are based on the current legislation. If this goes into effect, then the unions will lose their authority. It is recommended that the end of the year be postponed, both in time and in order to ensure a new arrangement in order to prevent it and again in the new era. That's the arrangement brought in. That is the main reason why the General Assembly is planning to work at 6:00 p.m. Dear friends, we sincerely hope that the new era will be a blessing. Hopefully, in the new era, we'd really like to see all of the arrangements, all of the laws -- including the Constitution -- of course, with maximum understanding, and in that statement with the Republican People's Party, to find out what that means. And that's going to be the main thing in all of our approaches. I mean, with as much understanding as possible, there's gotta be a consensus, a search for understanding, and a process like this... we believe that's necessary. I just want to say that the improvement of the working environment here, not in terms of a calmer and calmer study, but in order to ensure the greater participation of our nation, which reflects its will here, we will be in a fundamental approach, and in this framework, we agree, and we support the views of Mr. Hamzacebi. I think we all know that's what our groups think. Hopefully, in the new era, this Parliament will have the kind of work environment that will serve our nation much greater, that will make important decisions, that will carry out the arrangements that will be made, that will, hopefully, honorably, contribute, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will. And I believe that from the bottom of my heart. On this occasion, I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-07-14sit01spe0014par0353	Thank you, Mr. Canicli. Mr. Vural has a brief request for a statement according to Article 60 of the Civil Charter. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-07-14sit01spe0015par0356	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I didn't feel the need to make a commitment on the counseling board proposal. In fact, Mr. Secretary said that in a particularly urgent matter, a postponement of the social aspects of industrial relations must be made to satisfy one need. The House needs to sort this out. It's important that this matter be resolved. So we are faced with a demand for a change in needs. I must point out that our deputies know what to expect. So we say that a statement that has not been made aware should be evaluated at least outside of our members of our group. Tomorrow, 18. We're going to meet at 00, and we're thinking of contributing to the creation of a Parliamentary will to resolve this problem with working relations. And then, hopefully, there'll be a vacation period until October 1st. So it's 18 o'clock for what we're doing and what we're doing. I made a promise to tell them that we know they're meeting at 00. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-07-14sit01spe0016par0360	[[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] I thank you. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Members of parliament, it is Friday (July 15th 2011) at 18 p.m. to discuss business on the agenda, respectively, according to the verdict. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
