tbmm-2011-11-23sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 22nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you five minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 22nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The first roll call didn't have enough meetings. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you five minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, we've got enough meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu who wants to make a promise on the damage caused by the frost disaster in Niğde province. Here you go, Mr. Kavalıoğlu.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0002par0014	Dear members of the High Council, I salute you all. As of November 8th in Niğde Province, I have been promised off-the-tops about the problems of our potato farmers who have suffered from the frost disaster after the temperature dropped below zero below ground. Before we begin my words, I would like to visit their village and wish our potato farmer, whose troubles we have listened to, once again, to get out of here. Niğde ranks first in both the production of potatoes and the planting areas in our country, meeting 16 per cent of Turkey's annual potato needs alone. In our province, potatoes are raised by more than 5,000 families in about 70 towns and cities. Potatoes are planted in our region, April and May, and are removed in September and October. This year, however, because the rain was high in the spring, the potato planting was delayed, and the period of extraction grew to November. In addition, the time of the extended harvest coincided with the harvest of apples has also caused difficulties in supply of workers. In November, the temperature dropped below zero below ground, causing frost damage to unresolved potatoes. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers were conducted by the State Food Agriculture and Animal Development Directorate on November 10th to 11th, when local representatives attended the potato fields themselves, to assess the damage. According to this, 29 villages in the districts of Orhanlı, Lakecuk, Konaklı, Edikli, Elmeli, Yıldıztepe, Kiledere, Regiment and rye have been found to have suffered frost damage to the fields of potatoes in the city and in the region. A total of 48,485 potato manufacturers of 1,453 were unable to complete harvests, so the damage rate was between 40 per cent and 70 per cent. Ninety thousand tons of potatoes have been damaged, and 30 million liras in return. The farmers who planted their potatoes with the money they planned to pay for after the harvest have suffered a great deal of stress with their marketing problems. Congressmans, agricultural production depends on the nature of nature, and risk rates are a high sector. In addition to support for our farmers during the EC PARTY rule, there have been significant developments in risk management tools. The Agricultural Insurance Act, which was introduced in 2005, is one of them. Farmers who suffer from the frost disaster can also receive support under the Agricultural Insurance Act and Law 2090. Our potato makers expect support from our government at the moment of the cost of the frost disaster, but there are some issues that may be problematic in the official process, such as the insurance and damages of the disaster-lossed potato makers. In the beginning, problems stemming from the heritage system, and the number of producers involved in the Farmer's Recording System is low. The main reason why the collective records of the land are not being transferred to heirs by staying on the murises is because our heritage system does not register with the CKS. As a result of the division of our farmers' land through inheritance, very small divisions have made it difficult for manufacturers to register the CKS. In addition, some of the areas where the frost damage has been identified are treasures and some of the land used by rental means. The rental system is largely based on mutual co-operation and trust. It is also difficult to solve the problem if the land used without official contract is very large. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the farmers we visit, say they need the help our government will extend to them in order to ensure that their efforts are not lost and their victims are eliminated. The final payment date is the end of November, and they urgently request a postponement of bank loans, co-opseratives, and especially electricity debt. Dear lawmakers, it is imperative that the victims of our potato makers be eliminated by overcoming conflicts and other official procedures with agricultural insurance and Law 2090. It's our greatest desire to give compensation support to our disaster farmers, to delay bank loans, cooperatives and electricity debts, and to let potato producers breathe a breath of relief. I believe that all efforts are being done to prevent the victimization of our farmers, led by our Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0003par0024	Thank you, Mr. Kavalıoğlu. The second statement outside the agenda belongs to Diyarbakır MP Nursel Aydoğan (November 25th) who wants to address the Day of Fighting Violence Against Women and International Solidarity. Here you are, Mr. Aydoğan.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0004par0029	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party to prevent violence against women on November 25th. I hereby salute you with respect and love. Before my speech began, an operation was carried out yesterday in Turkey in 16 provinces, under the name of TKCK (KCK) for our party's mayors, deputy mayors and parliamentary members, especially the attorneys of the Asrın Law Bureau. I strongly condemn this operation. During the operation, another raid on a house in Diyarbakır, a female friend of ours, Gülsen Çelik, was taken into custody by a police woman during the week we were protesting violence against her. I'd like to express that state violence is important in terms of violence against women. On November 25, 1960, the Mirabel sisters were raped and murdered while fighting against dictatorship in the Dominican Republic. Thirty-nine years later, the United Nations declared November 25th the Day of Fighting Violence Against Women. On this occasion, I respectfully and gratefully remember all our female friends, especially the Mirabel sisters, who lost their lives in the struggle for freedom, in the struggle for human rights and democracy, because of the violence of the state. Dear friends, we women know that the first colonial nation in history is women, that our history has not yet been written by women, that society, life, love, and justice are wanted to be lost in the hard-written pages of civilization's history. We also know that for thousands of years women's reality, which has been concealed behind the concepts of virtue, property, shame, sin, and progeny, has been exposed to a sexist choice, and has been broken in every sense. Therefore, the battle between us women and the male dominant system for 5,000 years, we call it female-generation. Today, we see history continuing with its longest and most ruthless of all, leaving behind women's murders, broken female personalities, and furs. Dear lawmakers, we are aware, of course, that the solution to a universal problem such as the women's problem is difficult, but when we look at the political history of Turkey, it is possible to say that for the past ten years, there has been a growing and deepening development of transparency policies against women since the AKP came to power in 2002. This shows that in recent years women's murders have increased by 1,400 per cent in sexual assaults on women by 30 per cent. At a time when serious measures against violence against women in the world have been taken, of course, in our country, some legal changes have been made, but I would like to express in particular that there is no change in the mindset. Because of this change in mindlessness, women's killings are being tried to be legitimate with tradition, honor, tradition. The conservativeisation paradigm, which AKP has tried to spread and dominate the society during the growing era of the AKP, has a great effect on the murders of women for virtue. With this paradigm, the family institution is treated as a sexist approach, considered an object associated with the female family institution, the woman's place is home, her perception is strengthened, and most importantly, the approach is to view her as an individual with free will. Because of this approach, the ministry has been named the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. Here is the Prime Minister who doesn't believe in equality between women and women. He who doesn't respect women's will to give instructions is the maintainer of this paradigm, dear friends. Those who continue the struggle for freedom against this mentality also transform men along with themselves, confronting the male as a sovereign, a slave to the state at home. It draws a woman who is conscious and willful in the field of struggle to a democratic line. For this reason, the level of development, especially in Kurdish women, has recently become a feared dream of the state and the Prime Minister. For that reason, the Prime Minister is aggressively attacking BDP women, especially our MPs, as if by psychological violence. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear friends, we are the typical example of male dominant understanding, but the Prime Minister, who continues to do women's rights literature, would like to express from here that we are once again condemning us for his psychological violence against us on the Day of Violence against Women, who continue to do Women's Rights literature, and she wants to share with you once again that society will not be free unless she is free.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0005par0044	Mr. Aydoğan, thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Nüğde MP Doğan Şafak (Nüğde) who wants to talk about the problems of the frost disaster and potato manufacturers in Niğde Province. Here you go, Mr. Dawn.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0006par0049	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise on behalf of myself regarding the frost disaster and the problems of the potato makers in Niğde Province. I salute the honored members of the High Council. I want to tell our farmers to get over the frost disaster in Niğde province, which is 19 per cent to 1 in Turkey's total potato production. On the third day of the Festival of Sacrifice, the main villages of Niğde, Hasaköy, Konaklı, Edikli, Orhanlı, Ağcasar, Binma, Inli, Lakecuk, Elmeli and Farm districts, Divarlı, Bozköy and Tzardak villages, because of the seasons. Other than Niğde, it is the same in Nevşehir, Aksaray, Bitlis. In the districts of Bulanık, Malazgirt, the beet producers of the beet were also given to dons. Does the government know about this? Members of parliament, according to the Agricultural County Directorate's preliminary assessment, 1,400 producers were victims and potato products were frozen in about 50,000 per cent of the crop. Which means that if the farmer is calculated to buy 4 tons of crops per square inch, he has lost 200,000 tons of potato products. Right now, the price of the potato is 300 cents. That's the price of death and burning. I'm dead, and when it's calculated at the price of burning, there's about 60 trillion economic losses, and there's damage to our farmer. Potato production costs 600 cents per kilo. When calculated only by production costs, the farmer suffered 120 trillion losses from the frost incident only in Niğde. According to Law 2090, the sacrifice of the farmer who lost 40 per cent of his wealth and income must be removed. The government must join the exploiting forces and stop the civil war in Syria, Libya and Egypt and return to the problems of the Anatolian farmer. We have suggestions in this matter. Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Eker will stop reading gas to the farmer and listen to our suggestions. 1) The farmer's debt of energy to MEDASH 2) Agricultural loans 3) Agriculture Bank debts must be postponed for a year. This postponement only allows the farmer to breathe for 24 hours. In addition, farmers must be paid the full price of their products due to the pre-diagnosed frost incident. Some farmers who face the Don incident are not registered to the Farmer's Recording System, but are planting in other people's fields through icar. In addition, farmers who are not registered with the CPS need to be compensated. Dear lawmakers, potatoes haven't made money for farmers in years. For this reason, the farmer's debts to the MEDASH have been extended. In this case, the producer of potatoes, cabbage, and beets should be encouraged. Energy costs used in agriculture during the AKP era across Turkey have exceeded their tolerance. There are still $2 billion,200 million in debt to the private sector due to the electricity used by the farmer in agriculture. The total farmer's electricity debt is 2 billion 700 million liras. 161,000 agricultural irrigation subscribers owe money, and 30 per cent of them are out of power. I invite the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Energy to resolve these problems. Members of parliament, during the AKP period, Turkey's second-largest province in terms of facial measurement has been abandoned from processing as much land as the face measurement of Ankara. The size of the agricultural area left empty due to the wrong policies of the AKP is past the sum of the face measurements of eight counties, including Yalova, Kilis, Bartın, Düzce, Osmaniye, Zonguldak, Iğdır and Bigeli. You say that you support the farmer at every turn, despite the fact that these numbers are real, let alone support the farmer, don't be corrupt by costing the gas and electricity, they don't ask for any favors other than your government. This is where I end my words, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0007par0061	Thank you, Mr. Dawn. Mr. Sakık and Mr. Zeybekçi have asked for a statement, but we have already made a statement about it. Article 59 of the Civil Code is very clear, so I can't promise. Now, let's move on to the agenda...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0008par0064	Mr. President, if it's clear, we'll let you know what our problem is, and then you'll say, "What the hell?" Look, Mr. Orator has informed Parliament of this matter. He said there was a frosting incident about my constituency, too, and it's true. I'd like to report to Parliament on this matter.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0007par0065	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. Your words are in the transcripts. We have an explanation for this earlier, and yesterday we had a procedural debate...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0008par0066	Two pens have frosts on one side, potatoes on the other, beets producers on the other. I mean, what if we said two words about it?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0007par0067	You'll want it off the agenda next week, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0008par0068	Okay.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0007par0069	The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In social events, the use of gas bombs has become a daily practice. Today, gas bombs, described as "Show Control Agents," have become weapons with chemicals in them that seriously threaten human health. There are more than 15 types of demonstration control agents commonly known as pepper spray or gas bombs. Gas bombs are found in a container called Kanister. Serious traumatic injuries occur during the explosion of gas bombs used by the launch of this vessel. Recently, a large number of our citizens have been severely injured or killed by their canisters of gas bombs that police have used heavily in almost every case and were carelessly thrown into the mass. The chemicals found inside are particularly harmful to the respiratory and circulatory system, the skin and the eye. The pain in the eyes, the burning sensation, the excessive tear, the closing of the eyelids, the vision problems, the redness of the skin, dermatitis, headaches, dizziness, vomiting, acute respiratory failure, hypotension, chest pain are the known effects of people exposed to gas. And then there's the disease that happens later because of this kind of gas. If people exposed to gas have asthma, lung disease, or cardiovascular disease, these symptoms are much more evident. Studies have also shown that these substances can cause cancer and chromosomeal disorders that can cause birth defects during the long term. Show Control Agents, people with respiratory diseases such as asthma, emphysema, pneumonia, children and elderly body defense systems, can also have a more severe effect on chronic diseases that weaken the body's defence mechanisms. Therefore, it would be more appropriate to use such gases more controlledly or not even use them at all. Despite all the negatives indicated, gas bombs are used in almost every demonstration, and its use is growing. Sadly, no restrictions have been imposed on the use of these weapons that invite death. The damage of demonstration control agents, which security forces have made a habit of using even in the smallest mass demonstration, has been expressed by many environments for years, particularly health organizations and physicians, but has not been implemented permanently. The use of pepper gas, which law enforcement has applied in public demonstrations, is in violation of a large number of legally signed contracts around the world, and the use of these gases also violates many forms of crime in the Turkish Penal Code. In view of the above issues stated, the Constitution is 98th to determine the damage of gas bombs known as "Show Control Agents" on human health, prevent uncontrollably use of these gases, and start the work needed to prevent further damage to our citizens. And the 104th edition of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Civil Charter. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we respectfully submit the opening of Parliamentary Research. [[Tekirdağ]] [[Malatya]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[Inconceived]] [[Gaziantep]] 8) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 9) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 10) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] 11) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] [[Eskişehir]] 13) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 14) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] [[Mughle]] 19) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 22) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 24) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 25) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The world's media is seen as the fourth force after legislation, execution and judgment. Especially with the rise of communication technologies, it is clear how important the media is to the survival and development of democracy. The fact that the media is in such an important position also causes all eyes to be turned on. The political authorities' efforts to digest media -- or to dominate the media -- are often witnessed in political history. When it comes to the media, it comes to a very different dimension. Along with various tools such as newspapers, television, radio, and the Internet, writing, visual and audio media organs that sustain their lives on international, national and local levels allow us to know about the world. The work of the media has gone beyond information. Being aware of this will result in giving the media the importance needed. With globalisation and international monopoly concentrated, local media is much more specific than international and national media. Local media have a special importance for the need of the social state and for the defence of democracy. If the local press doesn't survive, there's no way to talk about freedom or democracy. Local press is like the capillaries of all media and publishing life. If there is no local press, if it is silenced or prevented, democracy will be interrupted and society will be silenced. Although local media organs are of such great importance, they deal with a wide range of problems. Because of dealing with various problems, these institutions are unable to concentrate on their actual work. In the beginning of these problems, economic conditions are difficult. Local media organs, which are on the verge of losing official ads by political power, are struggling to survive economically. Press organs under pressure at times and in some places require government support in order to overcome their difficulties. Local media organs, especially in need of the state's economic support, also require various legal regulations to protect their independence. For example, the fact that ads involving the direct ground, such as the CSEDIS ads, are located in these media publications will strengthen the local media media organs. In various ways such as this, supporting local media organs is necessary for local media to survive. The Constitution is 98th in order to explore the problems of written, visual, and auditory media organs and the solutions to these problems. And TBMM Internality 104 and 105. In accordance with the clauses, I respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamentary Research. 1) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Inconceived]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] 7) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Eskişehir]] 9) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adıyaman]] 12) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 13) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] 15) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Manisa]] [[Mughle]] 19) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 24) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 25) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our 134 clubs, which compete in Turkish football leagues, are founded under the laws of the Associations Act. In particular, the clubs competing in the Super League continue to live under difficult circumstances because they do not have enough income in the Bank Asia First League, the Second and Third League, as well as revenues and ads and sponsorship agreements acquired by the Football Federation as a result of the game's broadcast tender. Our 134 football clubs are governed by the laws of the Associations Act. On the one hand, we have a club in the Third League, which has a very significant amount of revenue, including the audience, which has no advertising and sponsorship income, which is run by the same law. Our clubs, especially outside the Super League, are trying to get the support of several businessmen in their provinces. Recently, it has become impossible to find a manager in our clubs. Under the laws of the Associations Act, the clubs are subject to the Law on Ammes No. 6183 fiscally. In particular, all executives in charge of the club's tax and insurance debt face foreclosure procedures. Other executives, who are not aware of the wrongdoings committed by one or several managers running the club, are also being punished in the same way. Although the tax and insurance premiums imposed on our football clubs are clearly known to have created huge problems with the current application, no measures are being taken, while tax and insurance premium debts have reached an unpayable level on the existing clubs that the public cannot collect from. As a result, insurance and taxes are being collected under law 6183 from executives serving at different times. Our clubs that compete in leagues outside the major leagues have become unmanageable. Our clubs are usually run by three or five people, although they have a 15-30-man rule, and our clubs are represented and sanctioned by these signatures. All responsibilities belong to those who signed them, but other executives who didn't sign the decision and didn't save any money should be considered equally responsible for Amme's Law of 6183. In Turkey's football leagues, especially the 18 current teams in the Super League and 53 other teams in the Third League have the same level of responsibility, but all clubs are governed under the rules of the Associations' Law. I respectfully submit to the creation of a new structure, especially in the creation of the management of professional football clubs, and to the opening of a Parliamental inquiry under Articles 98 (Ps) and Articles 104 and 105, in accordance with Articles of the Constitution, in order to determine how fair it is to be subject to the Law of Amme Aldermans No. 6183, along with all executives who have served in the club alone, who have provided financial assistance against the law. [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] [[Inconceived]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adıyaman]] 10) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] 11) Bedii Suheyl Batum [[Eskişehir]] 12) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Manisa]] [[Mughle]] [[Mersin]] 17) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] 18) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 19) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 21) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 22) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 23) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Mr. Jerzy Buzek, president of the European Parliament, who is officially visiting our country as a guest of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, wanted to address the General Assembly on Thursday (November 24th 2011). I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, the President of the European Parliament, Mr. Jerzy Buzek, will address the General Assembly on Thursday (November 24, 2011). The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and submit to your votes. 23.11.2011 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On October 20, 2011, Ağrı MP Halil Aksoy and his friends (100 rows) suggested that the Parliamentary Research Council, which was given to the Turkish Parliament in order to determine human rights violations in prisons, be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, read in the presentations Wednesday (23.11.2011) and held in the same date of talks. Halil Aksoy, Ağrı MP, who has asked for the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Aksoy.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0009par0265	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on our motion to investigate. I salute the General Assembly. Before I address the problems at the prison, I'd like to begin by condemning the mentality and the government that detained about 120 people, most of whom were lawyers, as a result of operations in 16 provinces yesterday. What does the government really want to do, what is Prime Minister Erdogan up to? We're really having a hard time understanding this. Are scientists, academics, journalists, voters, unionists, broadcasters, human rights advocates and jurisprudence supposed to be taken into custody, arresting them and filling them in prison, restricting the voice of democracy, peace and opposition? If anyone thinks so, let me tell you right now, don't let them dream for nothing. Aside from the woundings of the disaster in the van, the government is using all its work and economic possibilities to suppress the Kurdish problem and the challenges of this problem, which are watched by young children who have burned to death in hunger, cold, and tents. See, about 72 lawyers can be taken into custody just to do their jobs, and these lawyers don't even know what they're accused of. Their offices have been searched for hours with raids, and many documents have been confiscated. His files were given a confidentiality decision plus a restraining order. In this country, if that's the way the lawyers and lawyers violate their basic rights and freedoms, I'd like you to consider the rest. Frankly, we're expecting new pearls from Mr. Home Secretary, since we're used to it. Right now, every lawyer in custody is going to be taken out one by one and laid out in front of us. Dear lawmakers, while lawyers are being detained and a public defender is trying to be left vulnerable, these operations...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0010par0272	Mr. Aksoy, please bring up the agenda. Let's talk about what you promised, please.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0009par0273	Coming up on the agenda, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0011par0274	Mr. President, please do not interfere. No orator on the stand has ever talked about the agenda. Please do not interfere with our orator.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0010par0275	Mr. Buldan, I have the right to intervene, sir. I'll intervene under the terms of the Civil Code. No one here is acting on their own. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0012par0277	I already have one sentence left, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0010par0278	Please, you've talked less than half of your conversation off the agenda.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0012par0279	I accept an attack on the Kurdish people as an attack on democratic forces. I think it's an attack on lawyers who take over the defense of Kurdish people and democratic forces, trying to protect their rights and freedom. It is now very concrete who gives instructions for these operations against lawyers. Because the Prime Minister also showed me the address. What did he say? "There's a law firm of the century. The Imran's lawyers are here, and they move around all the time." And from a meeting right after that, I think it was a crisis meeting -- and the day after that, these arrests took place. Congressmans, the prisons continue to be the bleeding wound of this country. One of the most common areas of human rights violations is prisons. Prisons are a mirror to the progress of a country in the field of human rights and law. Unfortunately, Turkey has had a bad report card from the past to today in terms of right violations. In particular, rights violations in prisons have also been moved to international areas and have shown a significant increase in recent years. A significant increase with the AKP's government has also occurred in the number of remaining inmates in these prisons. Prisons are full now. Prisoners are admitted as doubles in the mess halls, even in some beds. Statistics show that he has reached the highest number of prisoners in the history of the Republic. Even in the 1980 coup, there's never been a fulcrum ratio. He is currently trying to live under the negative conditions of over 130,000 prisoners and convicted prisons. Despite this negative picture, however, the government sees only measures to open and build new prisons. In many prisons, the right to social activity, which should be ten hours, is reduced to six or seven hours a month. Again, these social activities should be carried out in groups of 9-10, while prisoners are not entitled to that right. Prisoners and prisoners in prison can't even benefit from cultural, art and communication tools such as newspapers, magazines, books, without a restraining order and a right to collect and ban due to arbitrary practices. Again, in many prisons -- which is also in my prison -- the TRT 3 channel that broadcasts the parliamentary TV is not allowed to monitor prisoners and prisoners, despite applications. In addition, it is still forbidden to speak to relatives in Kurdish on the phone. Prohibition of the native language is one of the greatest violations of human rights, and one of the greatest shames of this system. Dear MPs, conditions in prisons have practically eliminated the right to life of prisoners and prisoners. The administration's arbitrary disciplinary fines lead to the prison of prisoners. The most natural rights of a person, such as constant cell punishments, communication fines, the penalty for not participating in social activities, and the penalty for not watching television, are returned under the name of ▪disciplinary punishment. Discipline sentences also eliminate all vital rights to those who remain in prisons. Also, the penalty for not making a regular phone call is punishment for their families. Prisoners and prisoners are also very difficult to access to a physician. Prisoners are subject to such practices as remove socks, remove shoes, remove belts, or remove belts when taken to court or hospital or transport. The treatments and diseases of those present at the time of death are not performed in appropriate hospitals. Patient prisoners are being taken to the hospital by ring vehicles, while this journey becomes a second torture for them. The request of prisoners and prisoners to be transferred to prisons in the city where their families are located is generally rejected without justification. That must be a punishment for families. For these reasons alone, there are many prisoners and prisoners who have not seen their family in years. Exile transfers continue in an arbitrary manner. Prison ring tools are actually a subject of self-restraint. Indeed, in the 21st century, it is not humane to make transports with such tools. Transplants, especially on more than 20 hours of roads, have become a total torture for prisoners. Prisoners, like everyone else, must of course have the right to use common means of transportation. Who's going to pay for five prisoners burning to death in a ring car? Dear lawmakers, nine elected MPs of the people's will, unfortunately, and unfortunately, they are still in prison today. That shame must be a disgrace to the government and its judgment. Mr. Ibrahim Ayhan is being taken from the prison where he is being held to trial, while his hands are handcuffed and subjected to degrading treatment. This handcuff is a handcuff to the will of the people. It's impossible to accept. Congressman, I condemn the mentality of our friends who do all kinds of insulting and illegal practices, and I invite the Minister of Justice and the Speaker of Parliament to serve as necessary. Dear friends, health and right to live under constitutional guarantees are not provided in this sense in life. In the case of the state, prisoners and prisoners have the right to medical care and are guaranteed international agreements. Sadly, there is little medical care available in prisons in Turkey, and even some patients are left to die on purpose. In the matter of stopping their executions...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0013par0299	Thank you, Mr. Aksoy.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0012par0300	...requests are not being transferred to the Forensic Medical Association for months, but they are clearly waiting to die in prisons. According to information from human rights organizations, there are over 50 prisoners who fight severe diseases, particularly cancer.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0013par0302	Mr. Aksoy, thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0012par0303	These prisoners and prisoners must be evacuated immediately to be treated with their families.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0013par0304	Mr. Aksoy, please...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0012par0305	I hope and respect that you will support our research motion to give human value. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0013par0308	The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Yilmaz Bronzeç, Bartın MP. Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0014par0311	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Peace and Democracy Party group proposal. On this occasion, I salute you with respect. The BDP group proposal demands that the motion to investigate human rights violations in prisons be raised today. Dear lawmakers, it is not possible to participate in criticism that conditions in prisons have become increasingly severe against prisoners and prisoners, which have been alleged in the research motion. In recent years, important work has been done and done to improve the physical structures in prisons.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0015par0314	We'll send you a report, Mr. Orator, and send you our report!
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0014par0315	From 2003 to today, 40 criminal execution institutions have been built in accordance with international standards, security, mechanics, electronic equipment and rehabilitation procedures. In prisons, the number of prisons has been raised to two-eighths, and the number of workplaces has been established so that prisoners and prisoners can have jobs. He is still employed in around 3,500 prison inmates and arrested business dorms. In order to ensure socialization and prevent re-criminals from committing crimes, the Project for the Winners of the Prisoners has begun. It is an important arrangement in which prisoners and prisoners are able to meet their families in their native language. In Article 94 of the Law on the Execution of Penalty and Security Measures 5275, it has been detailed on how to use the health services of prisoners and prisoners. Under these legal regulations, prisoners and prisoners are entitled to use health services. Our Ministry of Justice has been very sensitive and carefully monitoring the appropriate medical requirements and regulations in this regard, taking the necessary measures to ensure that all necessary examinations and treatments regarding the health problems of convicted and prisoners can be carried out by every citizen who lacks freedom can also benefit from their rights and services. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, any legal action against human rights violations and torture has been determined by the nine-year EC PARTI ruling. The policy of zero tolerance for torture and abuse has been implemented at this time in order to protect and improve human rights, prevent torture and abuse. These positive developments have also been reflected in reports by international independent organisations. Regarding the events mentioned in the research motion, our prisons are being audited for human rights by the Turkish Parliament's Commission for Human Rights Review. The Parliamentary Commission for Human Rights Review has broad powers in this regard. This authority is not limited to any period of time. The BDP group suggests that it is not necessary to ask for a research commission on this matter, and that it is my duty to salute your grand delegation, which has broader powers to investigate human rights, and is not subject to a short period of three months, such as research commissions, and that it is not necessary because the lower commissions have already been established.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0016par0320	Thank you, Mr. Bronze. Mahmut Tanal has asked for the Peace and Democracy Group proposal, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0017par0324	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Being in prison shouldn't mean dying in prison. In this sense, if I count the problems in prison as headlines before I go into detail, problems are: One: Silivri Prison was built, but it was delivered in an incomplete manner because it was not done in accordance with the requirements. In this sense, authorities have violated the Public Contraction Law, thus committing crimes. Why? Because -- it's about Silivri Prison -- even though it's been coming into some rooms 40 times, when it's raining, the rooms are getting water, the windows are getting windy all the time, and in this sense, the government's actually being left behind. So there's a real victimism in that sense. A second incident is that hot water isn't being used enough, it's not a matter of individual prison in all prisons. There are some materials in the prisons that are considered anchors. Prisoners and prisoners are being paid for these items, which are considered to be the fixtures. So the administration of prisons has turned into a business. What is it? In prisons, they also collect water money, electricity money. The state is out collecting electricity money, water money, while in prison doing illegal procedures on prisoners and prisoners. There's health problems here. Our dear last friend, the secretary, spoke of health problems, said there was enough. Dear friends, in the practice of family medicine, there is a doctor who should be a doctor for every 2,500 and 3,000 people, and he has 24 hours of that doctor, while the number of prisoners and prisoners in prisons is disproportionate. This is a human rights violation. About the prisoner's transfer, there are abuses about the departure and arrivals during the transfer, restrictions on communication rights, disciplinary sentences, and more importantly, radios are not allowed in prison because of its harmful broadcast. This is a fundamental human rights violation. A person should be arrested or convicted or deprived of other rights without grounds or grounds. This also violates the 10th article of the United Nations Convention, which we signed. When we look at the general picture here in Turkey, dear friends, Turkey has become a semi-open prison. According to April 2001, the number of prisoners is 124.077, some of whom die in prison because they are sick and cannot receive the necessary health care. In recent years, political power boasts that the number of prisons has increased. Friends, it's a shame to have the number of prisons increased. Why is that a shame? Turkey is an indication that the country is not well managed. If there are fewer factories in one country, if the number of prisons is increasing, if the number of prisoners is increasing, if there are fewer people working in factories, there is a disease, a bad government, a bad administration. If the number of prisons is increasing in one country, then there is no fair government, there is no regular governance. In that sense, dear friends, you have to identify this disease well. Between 2005 and 2011, the prison population has increased by more than two times, but the number of employees has declined. According to the Department of Justice 2011 data, the population of prisoners with 55,000 in 2005 has risen to 124,074 in 2011, but this is an unprecedented increase in September 12th, dear friends. According to today's data, the total number of prisons is 384, but there are not as many factories as anyone in every prison in Turkey. The factories are closing, the prison numbers are increasing; there's an inverse ratio here. According to the latest statements, the Justice Ministry's 2014 goal is to increase its prison capacity from 114,000 to 140,000, which means the Justice Department's calculations are currently 114,000, while 30,000 people will be put in prison by 2014. It's a terrible and bad example. So the goal of the Justice Department is to fight crime and crime and to fight crime and crime, and to fight the number of people who can go to prison, but on the contrary, how many more people can we send to prison, the accounts of arrest are being made; this is an embarrassing event. It's been officially published on the Justice Department's own website, where they intend to arrest thousands of people over the next three years. Last, of course, this is about the death of Silivri Prison in violation of human rights in prison, the death of Explorer Kozinoğlu. Dear friends, this is clearly a human rights violation. Why? There's not enough equipment there, there's not enough doctors. If he had been a doctor in prison, maybe he could have been saved, and there's more. In Article 87 of the Penal Code, it is said that such suspicious deaths should be performed at least in an autopsy by independent physicians or independent physicians that the family can provide, in a way that will not be discussed in the future. The family wasn't given that opportunity. There was a quick autopsy. At least at the Istanbul Institute of Forensic Medicine or Adana, Eskişehir Forensic Institutes, and independent forensic institutions, the autopsy could be performed, at least the report from this autopsy would not have been discussed in public. Why should this be discussed at the morgue in İstanbul? Because there are people who have been appointed for political reasons about Istanbul's Medical Examiner. I mean, in that sense, it's not really enough to cover up the suspense, dear friends. The prisoner has all the health rights of a free person, so it's not necessary for the person arrested to give up the rights of other people who are not under arrest. In this sense, people die in prisons because they are sick and do not receive the necessary health care. The authorities need to be reminded that the punishment is to be in prison and that dying in prison is an unacceptable human rights violation. In that sense, really, the conditions in prison are unacceptable. In this regard, 413 people died in prison in 2010, 162 deaths due to illness, 38 suicide claims, and 213 normal deaths. Now, there's a three-way protocol for those who are here in prison. This three-way protocol is against the law. Why is it against the law? Because when the prisoner and the prisoner are examined, there is absolutely no guarantee that there will be a gendarme there, which is against the principle of privacy, and it also requires that he be able to get to the doctor at any time in order to choose his doctor and receive health care in accordance with the most natural rights of prisoners and prisoners in prison. After five o'clock, dear friends, you won't find doctors in prisons. So in that sense, no one can guarantee or guarantee that I will not be sick after five o'clock, that I will not be disturbed. One of the problems, dear friends, is that most heating repairs in prisons are done in the winter months. I mean, why aren't these repairs done in the summer? In winter, when there are repairs in prisons, the furnaces don't burn, and in this sense, prisoners and prisoners in prisons have experienced real discomfort. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's also a human right. Thank you all, my respects.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0018par0342	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. It's Recep Special, Isparta MP who wants to take a stand against the Peace and Democracy Group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0019par0346	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the group's proposal from the Party for Peace and Democracy. I salute you all. In the group's proposal by the Peace and Democracy Party, I would like to share with you at the beginning of my commitment to disagree with the group's proposal for today's investigation into human rights violations in prisons, the absence of the prisoners in need of treatment and the investigation of the problems in their treatment. Because in connection with human rights violations in prisons, the Human Rights Commission in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been actively and actively signed by the Human Rights Commission in the past period and during this period.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0020par0348	There are dozens of prisoners on their deathbeds, lying on their deathbeds. Mehmet Aras is a cancer patient.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0019par0349	Based on their recent reports, their language has been provided in the main language, and practices in military prisons have been terminated for the only type of clothing of prisoners and prisoners. In this period, a subcommittee for these human rights violations in prisons has been established, and a subcommittee of seven has been increased to seven, with a number of subcommittee members raised to five in order to be a member of these subcommittee studies in the numerical proportional proportion of Peace and Democracy Party. There have been recent visits to Sincan Prison, but the Peace and Democracy Party, which is trying to bring this research commission to the agenda of Parliament, disagrees with these subcommittee studies on whether there are human rights violations. If you have an objection, an opinion, a demand for human rights violations in prisons, if you have a request for an informed incident, zero tolerance is being shown, and those responsible are being processed in the broadest sense about them. And while the Human Rights Commission is conducting this study, we find that it is not appropriate for a research commission to work in parallel with it. Another issue you want to set up the research commission is that prisoners and prisoners in prison who are in need of treatment are not being evacuated and are not provided with the necessary treatment. You know, the mechanism that will do the evacuation procedures, within the judicial system, if, in a report, the Criminal Code, the Penal Code, the Penal Code, the regulations related to them, the Justice Department notifications, the courts, if they need to be evacuated, if they have a condition that needs treatment, they're being treated by taking care of the necessary health institutions. In accordance with medical confidentiality during the time passed in the admission room, the first admission of health information of a prisoner or prisoner entering the criminal execution institution for the first time is being recorded by the first admission examination for the spiritual and physical well-being of himself and his surroundings. Family medicine and dentistry services are provided in accordance with protocols on the Order of Health Services at the Department of Health and Justice Institutions between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Justice, which took effect on 30/4/2009. As part of the protocol, health units within the campuses of Ankara Sincan, İstanbul Silivri, İstanbul Maltepe and Kopeli criminal execution institutions have begun to serve in the form of the district policy of the penal institution, which is the most favourable state hospitals in the Ministry of Health, and are provided with health care through specialist physicians at local clinics. The bed capacity of the Ankara detention institutions' campus neighborhood police department is 16 and the bed capacity of the Maltepe penal institutions' campus district police station is 3, Silivri penal institutions' campus neighborhood police station is 30. The treatment services are not provided by sleeping at the campus neighborhood clinics. In the case of the institution's physician, family physician and dentists, they are referred to the hospital, providing the necessary health care for prisoners and prisoners. In emergency cases, the 112 emergency services are immediately notified and are provided with the necessary medical attention and transport to the hospital by ambulance in case of emergency. In the Protocol on Executive, Foreign Protection, Prisoners and Transporting Health Services, which took place on 19/8/2011, the physical arrangements for the examinations and treatments of prisoners and prisoners in hospitals have been included in detailed regulations, such as prison and prison wards, and in the general article, which the Ministry of Health has sent to the governorships, il health departments, on 5/10/2011, according to protocol provisions, and should be organised according to protocols. At times, there have been shortages of treatments and examinations due to limited number of doctors and working hours assigned to criminal execution institutions based on capacity in the practice of family medicine, as well as the absence of a doctor on leave for various reasons, or on a doctor's leave or on a report.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0021par0354	Is a beating allowed in prison?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0019par0355	...the Ministry of Justice and Health for the problems that have arisen in general implementation of the protocol has also been given instructions by this protocol to the state health departments and district health group presidents in writing. The organisation of the institution's health conditions is conducted by the physician. Preliminary examinations and treatment services for the protection of the body and mental health of convicted and prisoners are provided at the institution for the diagnosis of their illness, further examinations, treatments and rehabilitation are referred to state hospitals, further health care needs, and all medical examinations and treatments are recorded in the person's health file.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0021par0357	Where is this happening?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0019par0358	Under the law, all necessary examinations and treatments are guaranteed and free of charge by the state. Transfers to the hospital are made in accordance with medical requirements by the doctor's discretion. In emergency situations where the doctor can't be reached, he's able to deliver the top chief at the time. Those who were referred to the hospital and who were admitted to the hospital and who were admitted to the hospital are required by the attending to be treated in hospital are taken to the hospital's prison ward, where treatment and surveillance are continued. Our Ministry of Health also studies that the number of sick prisoners in hospitals must be organised in hospitals, according to heavy prison centres, in order to prevent the shortage of prison wards or negative physical conditions, and the prevention of sick victims. Humanity is as important as the activity of the penal system.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0022par0361	What country is this?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0019par0362	In new approaches to the criminal execution system, rehabilitation, re-enactment of criminals and preventing re-criminalism is a prerequisite. An important part of the transformation in our criminal execution system is the creation of modern, secure criminal execution institutions and the closure of inadequate, non-national institutions. In this scope, 59 institutions have been opened since 2002 and have been closed, along with 205 institutions that do not comply with international standards, as well as the well-known Bajrampaşa and Ulucans. Instead of closed execution institutions, high capacity, modern institutions are also provided to reduce the concentration in prisons largely. These studies show that in our prisons, if there really is a human rights inquiry, if there is a specific human rights violation -- place, state the event -- there will be zero tolerance on them.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0023par0364	Diyarbakır Type F Prison.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0019par0365	Since there is a subcommittee working in our Parliamentary Research Commission, we disagree with the BDP's opinion, I respectfully extend to all of you, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0024par0367	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0025par0368	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit02spe0024par0369	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I'd like to put the Peace and Democracy Party group proposal to your votes: those who agree... those who don't accept... Congressmans, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0024par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 22nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Peace and Democracy Group's proposal did not have enough decisions to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough to decide and it's not accepted. Now, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Counsellor's Council on Wednesday, 23,11,2011 (now) there is no consensus among the Political Party Groups, I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. Yours truly. On October 20, 2011 and 475 points, our parliamentary research proposal for the purposes of finding out whether or not the actual causes and practices of our animal production are in the interest of the entire community has been proposed to conduct their talks in today's Union, reading at the General Assembly on Wednesday 23,11,2011 (now). Kemalettin Yilmaz, MP of Afyonkarahisar, has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0026par0018	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. You can appreciate that developed countries have grasped the strategic importance of the animal industry and have increased the share of animalism in the agricultural sector with its important policies, because animalism has an important position in human life and country economics because it has the ability to contribute to human adequate and balanced nutrition, the ability to transform animal plant and plant waste, which is not consumed as human food, and because it provides farmers daily income. Despite the fact that the AKP governments have a broad area, different ecology, advantageous position with the presence of animals from different species and races, our country, despite its hard-working people and its fertile land, its sun, its water, our country's animalism and the production of animal products have been sadly compromised. Turkey's population has increased by 38 per cent since 1980, while its animal presence has, unfortunately, decreased by 53 per cent. Turkey, which still has a population of 26 per cent and 27 per cent, needs to find an urgent solution to the decline of political power in the number of living animals. Turkey had 80 million animals for 45 million populations in 1980, but today, unfortunately, we have 38 million animals for our 74 million populations, as a result of nine years of wrong actions by AKP governments. Against all these problems, the government has moved directly to import living animals by putting aside the option to increase animal production in Turkey. If we accept every livestock operation as a factory today, every day many factories are closed, and if it goes like this, it will continue to close. Thus, it is inevitable that many of our people will also be unemployed. Where they were born, our hungry people will leave their land and bring with them many economic, social, and cultural problems. During the AKP ruling period, our animal existence, particularly the species of sheep and goats, has decreased. The price of meat and dairy products has sometimes gone up with artificial price fluctuations, sometimes dropped, but in both cases, unfortunately, our manufacturer has lost. I'm afraid the animal registration system has not been activated effectively. The price of milk and feed was unresolved, and many breeding animals were transported to the slaughter. For the past year in particular, meat prices have been abnormally increased, and the poor have been seeing meat from the poor victim to the victim. Unlike the past years, meat shipments have begun from western provinces to eastern provinces, where animalism is the busiest. Sheeping has been dismissed, and for political purposes, various animal supports have been put into practice in some districts. Illegal animal activity and smuggling were not effectively fought. In 2002, when only one escaped animal entered our country, today, animal trafficking began with ear earrings on. Since this smuggling was largely under the control of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), the Turkish farmer and the state suffered great damage. The money the PKK has earned from this sector is unfortunately returning to Mehmet. Live animals and meat trafficking are a major blow to the country's animalism. I'm afraid no step has been taken to provide domestic resources for the breeding heifer and sheep need. By conducting private talks with foreign countries, the national BSE Commission's decisions have been ignored, and since this Commission's work has been terminated because it has been blocked in front of animal imports, for 15 years -- I'm taking notice of it -- the path of meat importing into our country, which has not been imported for 1 gram in 15 years. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you can appreciate that both meat and milk are the biggest inputs in the production of chicken and eggs. To sustain dairy cattle, when we sell 1 litre of raw milk, we should be able to buy 5 pounds of cut bait. Today, a quart of milk is 65 cents, a pound of feed is 80 cents, a sack is 40 lira. Today, with 1 liter of raw milk, unfortunately, only 810 grams of cut feed can be taken instead of 2 pounds. This sector is no longer sustainable. One of the other entries in production is diesel. In 2002, at the start of AKP rulings, our farmer had to sell 1.5 liters of raw milk to buy 1 litre of diesel, but at the end of the day, unfortunately, he had to sell 5-6 litres of raw milk to buy 1 litre of diesel. The development of our animalism also has a significant share in beets and beets production, both at the point of melas and at the point of overlap. In 2002, our farmer had to deliver 10 kilograms of beets to buy 1 litre of diesel, but at the point where he arrived today, he had to deliver between 30 and 35 kilograms of beets to buy 1 litre of diesel. You know, where they're from, where they're from, one of them is a drama in the animal industry. In Turkey, between 2002 and 2011, the overall situation in animal production and animal products markets has never been in favour of the manufacturer and has also emerged as a victim of instability. Mr. President, the current situation in livestock is the most important indicator of where Turkish agriculture has come from with these crises that have exploded in the agricultural sector due to the wrong policies of AKP governments. Turkey, which exports its livestock and products until yesterday, is now a country that imports animals, not export animals, unfortunately, but imports animals. Over the last seven years, the number of animals in our country has been particularly low, while the number of animals in the countries around the world has increased. In the last seven years, the number of small animals has dropped by 5 million. As a result, meat prices have skyrocketed since the second half of 2009. Unable to analyze the causes of this increase, the AKP Power found its solution to import meat by doing another wrong. But you'd appreciate that it would have come to this in 2006. Yes, valuable lawmakers, scientists and NGOs said that in 2006, this country's problems with livestock. To illustrate: 100 of our Republic of Turkey, published in November 2006 by the Central Union of Fertile Beef Growers. In its year, the book "Animal Production of Turkey" appears to be particularly critical for Turkey's production of red meat on page one hundred and eleven. Milk production from animal populations and meat production must be balanced at a suitable point. Otherwise, there will be a particular shortage of red meat and Turkey will be forced to import meat. If Turkey tries to import the red meat deficit and continues it for a long time, the road to milk imports will also be opened. So the AKP government didn't understand that the issue of meat in this country was a matter of milk, the matter of milk was a matter of meat, and for years it allowed milk to be sold cheaply from water, and blocked the milk manufacturer's cries. In 2007, the abnormal increase in bait prices led to increased milk powder imports, lower cost of milk prices, and the result of the slaughter of breeding cows led to a deficit in meat supply and increased meat prices in the following years. Later, manufacturers continued to warn the government on various platforms in various times and environments. However, the AKP government has not heard these cries, the cries of our farmer, the cries of NGOs, and has taken no precautions. In 2008, the number of major animals was reduced by 2 per cent and 1 per cent due to this wrong policy preference and poor governance of the AKP government, while in 2007, increased production of red meat due to the slaughter of breeding animals dropped 16 per cent and 14 per cent in 2008, and meat prices increased due to the lack of red meat in 2009. Because of the commitments made to the European Union, the import scenario was fulfilled and the environment for meat imports was created and importing was allowed. Meat import permit may be a temporary solution to lower meat prices. The transport doesn't come back with water. But it is clear that this wrong political choice will now condemn our country to imported meat. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] AKP Power has preferred the people of our country to support the EU farmer rather than support the country's farmer. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0027par0036	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Bedrettin Yıldırım has asked for a statement against the National Movement Party Group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0028par0040	Mr. President, very dear MPs, I salute you all as I begin my words. When we return to the 2000s on the subject of livestock, it is possible to look there and see clearly what was successful in agriculture and animalism during the EC PARTY period. In the period of our government, the firm policies for the development and strengthening of the sector, provided support, efforts to bring about a structure capable of meeting domestic and external food demands, have turned agriculture into a booming industry that has kept the country's economy alive in the last decade. Despite changes in climate and environmental conditions and fluctuations, the risks in marketing have been present, while rapid population growth, advances in tourism have been an important part of this sector's ability to meet all of this. In 2008 and 2009, during the global financial crisis, the sector grew by 2.4 per cent, with major projects launched against permanent and key issues in the sector, and the sector completed 2010 with 2.4 per cent growth. During the first six months of 2011, 6.8% grew. The growth that has been captured, lawmakers, is the most stable period of the last 50 years, growing in seven years between acceleration and agriculture between 2004 and 2011. Agricultural non-billion dollars were $23 billion in 2002, while by 2010 it increased by 21 per cent by 161 per cent, reaching 62 billion dollars. With all these positive developments, the agricultural sector has been a face-blower for our country's economy, while it has been a rising value every year in reports released by important international organisations. In 2011, the first time since 1994 by the Economic Co-operation and Development Organization, one of the world's most important international economic organisations, the Turkey Report on the Evaluation of Turkish Economic Policy Reforms was published. In the last eight years, Turkey has been left behind countries, such as France, Spain and Italy, providing serious support for agriculture, and has risen to the first place in Europe and to the seventh place in the world in the 11th row by jumping four rows. Members of lawmakers, agricultural support has been redesigned especially during our government's time, on the basis of quality, health, efficiency and rural development. The framework is supported by 61 pens, which started in the period of our government. Remember, while there was previously direct income support, production support was placed in the front row today. The announcement of supports before the production season and the production planning of our producers in this area were also launched during the period of EC PARTY governments. In addition, from 2009 to today, most of their support payments began to be paid in 2011 in the first half of the year, and all of 2011's support was paid. As of late October 2011, 5 billion dollars were delivered to our farmers in 2011. By the end of the year, that figure will reach 6 billion 590 million. Given the end of 2011 payments, the amount of cash exported from our ministry's current transport budget to the agricultural sector from 2003 to 2011 would have exceeded 43 billion euros -- exclusion of money support, interest subsidies, export support. In 2012, our agricultural support budget will increase by 20 per cent compared to the same period last year and will increase to about 7.2 billion TL. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we know that animalism, especially terrorism, has been seriously damaged by the year 2000 in Turkey, as well as meat imports. In addition to the privatisation of meat combinations and the Milk Industry Association, livestock has suffered a serious injury. During our administration, for the first time, a study of meat combinations has been launched, and the remaining meat combinations have been reintroduced and are now serving the animal industry. The number of them has to increase every day. After a tax reduction in imports, prices are being monitored daily by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, which says that on April 26, 2010, the average price of the calf's carkas, which is 16.13 euros, comes to 22/11/2011, which is $15.4 euros when it comes to the past few days. It's bound to come down even further after the tax deduction. Of course, we also have to maintain the balance of our producer and consumer in the matter of meat. Our esteemed lawmakers also have significant support for the development of livestock during the EC PARTY period. In particular, animal support from our government for the development of the animal industry, which has an important place in the agriculture sector, has increased significantly. I'll give you the numbers now. In this scope, we are supported by producers of such things as animal production, animal disease, animal disease, and animal breeding, mother cattle and manda, mother sheep and goat, protective inoculation, cattle and small head, milk, artificial seedling, raw milk regulatory, food plants, plant goat. In addition, GAP and DAP projects provide significant support in this sense. For the first time to increase meat production, calfs born of hybrids from carnivorous races in 2011 will also be supported by $150 per calf. Animal support increased by 18% in 2011 compared to 2002. In 2002, in particular, only 83 million euros were supported by animalism, while in 2010 it increased to 1 billion 193 million TL. In 2011, the support for animalism reached 1 billion 498 million as of October. This is a clear indication of how much support was given during the 2000s. Again, support for plant feeders for the 2000s increased to 232 million in 2010, to this 257 million in 2011, reaching 2.4 billion in support for all bait plants during our government's time. In the 2000s, the calf support rose to 42 million in 2010, to 46 million in 2011. Again, when vaccine support was 8.8 million, a total of $24 million calf support and vaccine support rose to 8.9 million today. Ladies and gentlemen, livestock has been considered as a priority sector by our government and has been activated in this area to promote animal support, development and efficiency of the industry. As I have just stated, meat fish institutions have been activated, especially today the meat fish combinations in the Eastern Anatolian region are making an effort to meet the considerable needs of our producers, our animal breeders. The share of animal support has increased significantly in agricultural support. In 2002, the share of livestock in the agricultural support budget was 4.4, while in 2011 it was raised to 26 per cent. Likewise, in 2002, the number of support pens in livestock was supported by only four pens, while 27 were published today. Another important support in livestock is the application of zero interest loans, which also began during the period of EC PARTY governments. Agricultural Bank and agricultural loan co-ops lead to agriculture...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0029par0066	Mr. Lightning, thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0028par0067	...the loans used and the interest has been seriously increased by 100 per cent subsidies for the livestock industry. I salute you all while I finish my words.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0029par0070	Ensar Öğüt, Ardahan MP who has asked for the group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Reminder.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0030par0073	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a commitment to the National Party's motion. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0029par0074	It's a suggestion, Mr. Öğümün.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0030par0075	It's a suggestion. It's not a suggestion, it's a suggestion. I'm correcting it. Dear friends, on November 3, 2002, the Justice and Development Party came to power and you have been in power for nine years. Mashallah, you did what no one else could. For the first time in the history of the Republic, sacrifices were imported from the outside, and you fed these imported sacrifices to people. I don't know if you've cut it, but if you've got a teacher in you, or you've got fellow theologians, I'll ask you, is there any animal or animal that's been neutered by the name of Anatolia? Tell me about it.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0031par0077	You have a teacher, ask him.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0030par0078	You can't, can you? We've got teachers, we've looked into that. You can't, can you? Now, dear friends... look, let's take turns.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0032par0080	Mr. Öpün, please, let's not talk in person. Address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0030par0081	This is the first time in the history of the Republic you've ever seen a sterilized animal sacrifice. Infertile animals are imperfect animals. The imperfect animal is not subject to sacrifice. All the religious intellectuals, the fatwa, everyone gives it to you, but unfortunately... if he had thrown another party, I swear, you'd have had the apocalypse. That's where the animals are in Lüleburgaz. They're all broken, they've all been sterilized, and to sell those animals, you've put a shed there, my brother, so that you don't have to take the animals of people from the bridge, Anatolia, and sell them around.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0033par0082	Not with a credit card, not with a credit card!
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0030par0083	Now, dear friends, in various provinces of Asia Minor, villages, stables, people have been feeding animals with great difficulty, and they try to slaughter them once a year, but they couldn't drive them across the Anatolian coast and sacrifice the man's animal. Why? This government didn't do this so they could sterilize animals from the outside. Look, I said, dear friends, that's where I went. I spent it in the car, and they interfered with it. I say: 'My brother, why don't you send it to Thrace?' He says: 'We will not send it to Thrace.' There's no smack in Thrace, there's a smack in Anatolia. Why do you sacrifice infected animals if there's a shaft on the Anatolian side? If the animal from Anatolia has passed through vet control, it has a certificate, a medical certificate, a passport, a population record. Let him go. No way... How could it not be? So, why are you being cruel to this citizen? You know why not, guys? Look, Jordanian, make a note of it - there's a Hicazi firm. The Jordanian company Hicazi is now the only company of the Meat and Fish Association to import meat and carcage and animals. This company built 90% of the Meat and Fish Foundation. This is a Jordanian firm. I went as an observer. You know how they do it? Let's say there were eight companies involved. Sir, he doesn't have it, he doesn't have it. They're withdrawing, they're staying three. And three of them, sir, let's give them a break. They say, they agree outside, they come, they're the only company! Jordanian Hicazi took all the tenders. Now, look, I'll tell you what's more important, guys...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0034par0087	Then we'll leave!
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0035par0088	No one else can!
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0030par0089	It's like you said, no one else can. They took these. Now, how much did the Jordanian Hicazi company bring the animals for, how much is the Turkish peasant selling them for? Look, this is very important, make a note of it. They've tendered to the Jordanian Hicazi company, selling carbs for $18,250 to Turkey, for $18,250. Well, okay, that's all the animals left in the victim, our own peasant. Don't they normally have to buy these animals at that price? Isn't that justice, that's development, that's right, that's right, that's right, isn't it, brother? But they didn't. How much did they buy it for? 14 liras! It's on the Internet for the Meat Fish Foundation. Dear friends, isn't it a shame about our own village? So you're buying $18,250 to make the Hecazi company of Jordan rich, and our own village is $14. It's a shame, it's a sin, it's forbidden. It's all about the rights of the subject. (CHP) I'm calling from here to the Prime Minister. Such cruelty can't happen! Dear friends, I mean, we're parliamentarians, congressmen. We're not going to say it, but who's going to say it? You bring in the imperfect animal, you create a formula to sacrifice the sterilized animal, to sell the property of the Jordanian company Hicazi, not buy the property of its own citizen, and I caught it. If these animals have diseases, I'm telling you right now. I'll tell you that in writing. In Adapazarı, in Sakarya, -- our representative was just here -- a company in Sakarya Pamukova, I won't mention the name of the farmer -- Mr. President, he bought an imported animal. Animals are all blue language disease, blue language disease. Who identified this? Again, our vet clinic in Pendik, Istanbul, has identified it, my friends. These animals have blue language disease. I went after these animals. If these animals have infectious diseases -- they're going through the flies -- they're going to have animal disease in Turkey, please, they need to be adopted right away. But they said, "Okay." I don't know what they said. The owner of the firm, the owner of the company in Pamukova, filed a lawsuit against them, protested against them, notarized, and paid for my harm. He told the Ministry of Agriculture. The Minister of Agriculture said: "Don't make a sound. Here's your money, brother. Give us the animals, and we'll embrace them." So the animals would be destroyed. You know what? Those animals were not persecuted, they were taken to Gaziantep, where they were cut, according to my senses, my brother.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0036par0095	Hear or hear?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0030par0096	Yes, I'm speaking from the bench of the Grand National Assembly. These are also true and are proven. No one can deny it or deny it. Dear friends, if he's sick, why did you feed us the blue language diseased animal? Why don't you sell the goods of our own Turkish peasant? You don't give up Islam, you get paid more for it, you get more for Muslim property. Can such cruelty be done?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0036par0098	Mr. Ensar, are you in this business as well?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0030par0099	Dear friends, look -- the process is ending -- I'm ashamed of it as a congressman. If the blue language has been abused, I'm calling from here to the Minister of Agriculture to show us the bones wherever they are, wherever they are, wherever they are buried, brother. Let them show you their bones. If they can't show it, this Minister of Agriculture must resign immediately, immediately. It's a shame, it's a shame. You don't give money to a Turkish peasant, and as for the other guy, you say all sorts of things are free. What wisdom is there in this Jordanian Hicazi company, my friends? Why don't you look into it?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0036par0100	And he got it on the tender.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0030par0101	With a bid! How does this guy get 90 percent of all the contracts?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0036par0102	Not without a bid.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0030par0103	Dear President, don't! Well, he did, and he could, so let's say that's true. For $18.5, why don't you buy it from our own village? Ask him about it.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0036par0104	That's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about the tender.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0030par0105	Okay, the tender is so, and I'm saying that the Turkish villager is left with goods, it's ruined, people are devastated, there's no car money, there's no truck money, there's no truck money to go back, there's no money to go back, there's no money to sell it, there's no money to the Fish Association, the Meat Association says: I'll buy it for $14. It says 12, 13, 14 lira. First, second, third grade. So if it's not $14, if your pet's a little weak, it says it's second-rate, he wants it right away. So, dear friends, you've put animalism in such a state that you've ruined it. Look, do you know where the runaway animal came from? Last semester -- there were pictures -- I wish I'd brought those pictures -- from India and Afghanistan, the runaway animal, the humping, the camel humping. You know the cows of India. Where did it come from? He's come to our country. The livestock district has come to Kars. Now, dear friends, we've just been told by the Bursa MP that what we've done is we've done this, we've done this. In his day he closed the Agricultural Loan Co-op for the districts of Büyükorhan and Harmancık. You have no right to speak, brother! Look, Bigorhan and Harmancik. Is that a lie? Now, you shut it down, you come in, you say here: that's livestock, that's agriculture. Dear friends, whatever it is, please make it easy on our village, make it easy on the loan, make it easy on the incentive, and let our village rise, let Turkey rise. Why are we giving it out? Right now, the countries where you buy meat on the outside have 30, 40 percent red meat shortages. They cover that red meat gap with a pig. Now, how do I know if you feed these animals pig scraps? Don't sell snails in the Muslim neighborhood. I say, "No, don't sell snails in the Muslim neighborhood." And take care of the Turkish peasant. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0037par0110	Thank you, Mr. Öpün. Mehmet Erdogan is the MP of Adıyaman. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0038par0114	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the research motion issued by the esteemed MPs, the MP. I hereby salute your high council. Valuable lawmakers are an industry that develops the country's economy, creates the highest added value to the unit investment and provides the lowest cost of employment. Increased population and prosperity in both the world and our country also increases demand for animal products. So our Department of Agriculture took precautions at this point, and began to demonstrate how important animalism was. I'd like to share with you where our work in livestock has come from. Dear lawmakers were first removed from the adoption of livestock during the EC PARTY period. This sector came to its rightful place with the power of the AK PARTY. What's done? Of course, we'd like to talk about the work done in the AK PARTY administration as we get the chance, but let's hand over one right, and we'd like to talk about the support given during your time. 2002, before the AK PARTY, your support for animalism is only $83 million.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0039par0118	Talk about the result.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0038par0119	$1.5 billion in support of the livestock industry in 2011. The share of animalism in agricultural support was raised from 4 per cent to 27 per cent in 2002, at an increasing level during our rule. Now, there's a group proposal from the MPP. I'll tell you in a minute, I'll tell him what kind of motive they've written, where they've been, how far behind the age, they should have sat down and thought about it, but they should be a little curious. Let me tell you more about the animal work. That's 50 heads, not 10 heads, but we'll give 225 lira per animal, 5 animals registered in livestock or agricultural bodies, and if the calf is born, 50 lira, 25 lira, an increase of 80 cents per gallon to a gallon, 150 cents a pound; if the feed plant is planted, we'll give 25 lira to a vaccine. For the first time in 2011, the meat-twisted hybrid calfs are being supported for $150. Agricultural development co-ops are fully supported. Between 1999 and 2002, the co-op was supported by only 87 million euros, while the AK PARTY was supported by a total of 1,800 cooperatives, 1.5 billion euros. Co-operative partners were handed out 179,000 head heifers, 338 thousand head sheep and goats. In 2010, non-interested livestock loans were introduced to 5.7 billion TL. The number of manufacturers demanding is 105. Eighty-five thousand is a payment to ranchers with operating capacity only under 50 heads. In 2002, over 50 heads of farms were raised to 24,000, with the support of the EC PARTY ruling. As part of the GAP and the DAP-based provinces, we have supported construction by 30 per cent, machine equipment and cow importing, to those who established breeding business or breeding business with combined and carnivorous races. Our country's animalism needs quality rough food. We've reformed the ceremony. We were doing 6,800 hectares of reform, and before the AK PARTI rule, in our time, we did 400,000 hectares of reform. From 1.2 million hectares to 2.2 million hectares. We've grown from 25 million tons to 37 million tons, and we've reached 75 percent of what we need. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, if we hadn't done this work, if we hadn't brought these achievements into our nation's household, would we be able to talk about it today? If we were stuck with the opposition's lack of vision, would our agricultural GDP go from $23.7 billion to $62.4 billion? If we were stuck with the lack of opposition, would we be able to raise our country to the 11th ranking in the world in terms of agricultural production?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0040par0125	Watch your language, that's right! What do you mean, "unvisioned," "unsighted"?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0038par0126	If we'd paid no attention to the opposition's crises, the fights, we wouldn't have been able to achieve the economic achievements that the world appreciates.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0041par0127	Are you aware of today's report, today's report?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0038par0128	Could we raise our agricultural products exports from $4 billion to $12 billion? If we were to respond to this form of opposition, we wouldn't be able to put forward a policy style that embraces 74 million, of course, but the AK PARTY reads the hearts of our nation, listens to the pulse of our nation, and takes its steps accordingly.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0042par0129	He listens to your phones, he listens to your phones!
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0038par0130	Whatever language you speak, we will continue to speak in the language of Jonah, and in the language of the man, and in the wealth of the heart of Haci Bektas Veli, and in the language of the people, and in the language of the people.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0043par0131	Angus, language of angus! There's a new language now, asshole!
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0038par0132	Dear lawmakers, with this work, Turkey's reputation has increased, Turkey's prosperity, happiness, hope, excitement. We strengthened Turkey's position in Europe, in the world. As we can't paint happiness, we can't show it on the map, but we're struggling to draw a picture of brotherhood on this country's heart map, solidarity, sharing.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0044par0133	You're walking around with guards.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0038par0134	We're trying to make services for Turkey, for the nation, for the work. Dear MHP officials, I'm going to ask you now, the reason I have, look, is that the new-age congressmen have signed their petitions, and I'm going to translate, and I'm reading the reason, and you're probably surprised how far behind you are, and you've put the motions that you've been given in the past term on the agenda. Hopefully, I think it should be a sign of aberration, hoping that this new era will be more careful.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0045par0136	The problem continues.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0038par0137	If you re-examine these, it'll be more accurate, better signed. I salute your grand delegation, saying that I am against the RHP's research proposal.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0046par0140	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0047par0141	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0048par0142	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0049par0143	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0050par0144	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0051par0145	Mr. Speaker, in his speech, I would like to make a statement in accordance with Article 69, sir, not to make any distinction between parties by referring to the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0052par0146	Mr. Metiner has entered into the field of duty and has entered into the subject of diameter!
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0050par0147	Your Honor, your request is the same...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0053par0148	Yes, about the same thing, sir, he meant our name.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0054par0149	Mr. President, with the speech of Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0055par0150	Mr. Metiner has entered the busy zone! You've lost the ring, Mr. Metiner!
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0056par0152	Let the stone fall as fast as the text... your Metiner fear...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0055par0153	He had a diameter, and he's gone!
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0057par0154	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'll give you two minutes, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0058par0159	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressman, Mr. Speaker, is unaware of budget figures! My advice to Mr. Speaker is to go through the government's 2012 Budget Bill, review the budget laws of the previous years, budget practices, and the budget budget of 2002, which they don't like. We need these numbers to evaluate animalism. The 2002 budget, that unappreciated 2002 year, that bad year... that's how it's presented. Yes, for a year after the crisis, it has not been an example of the good years of Turkey, but the rate of budgetary funding to the agricultural sector in that unpopular year is 53 percent. You've been under there for four years. You support agriculture behind 2002, starting in 2007.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0059par0161	Because our income has increased.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0058par0162	Instead of supporting the agricultural sector, the farmer, you support the Prime Minister's well-known members of the two public banks. First get in there, assess those supports, and then come back here and make small talk. The painting is not different in livestock, it is not different in agriculture, it is not different in economics, it is not different in unemployment. Look at the economy savings rate. The economy that doesn't save can't invest. At the lowest level in history, the savings rate is now in Turkey. An economy that can't raise them can't invest, the economy that can't invest doesn't reduce unemployment. You haven't been able to catch up on unemployment in years before you have. Find out first, then take this stand and talk. That's my advice. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0060par0166	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0061par0167	Mr. President, Mr. Hamzacebi, by mentioning our Prime Minister's name...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0062par0168	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0060par0169	Mr. Canikli, I'll promise Mr. Şandir. I'll make a promise to you for two minutes. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0062par0172	Thank you. That was a very unfortunate conversation. It's not like he's got a name or an experience or anything. Mr. Erdogan, you don't have to measure the scope of the opposition's vision, it doesn't have that right. If it's about fighting, you've accused the opposition of conflicting, and you want to fight. My dear friend, the ritual is the work of one's mouth. As a result, you have ruled Turkey for ten years. Is it possible to call animalism good today? If it were good, would it have to be like importing live animals from the outside? We gave up the live animal, and now you're importing carcage. I mean, I'd say it's embarrassing, but please don't take it personally. Really, our farmer's in a tough spot. I mean, if one in four farmers had come out of agriculture, had been able to feed their children on the land where they were born, could they give up farming? You're all from Anatolia. Many of you come through agriculture. In what field can you say our farmer is better than yesterday? What's our farmer selling lemon for today? So I'm going to say one other thing: power, especially politics, should speak, but power shouldn't speak, power should. Is it possible to applaud a policy that boasts about what it does? Isn't it necessary to talk about what you can't do, to ask the community to give you the benefit of the doubt? I'm not saying anything, of course, Mr. Hamzacebi said that one of the basic factors that determines the welfare of an economy is the amount of savings. Open up, look at your records, today the country is saving half of 2002. That means no matter how good you are, you can't put money aside. It's not right, it's not right, it's not right, it's not right. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0063par0178	Thank you, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0064par0179	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0065par0180	The IMF debt has been reduced...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0063par0181	Please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0065par0182	The Central Bank...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0063par0183	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0066par0184	Mr. President, Mr. Hamzacebi has just made an accusation in his speech.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0063par0185	Sir?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0066par0186	In his speech earlier, Mr. Hamzacebi accused our Prime Minister of having his name mentioned and that the bank and loan were taken illegally. I want to talk to you about bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0063par0187	Here you go. I'll give you two minutes, again, according to Article 69.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0066par0191	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Last semester, Mr. Hamzacebi had a motion for a geneorization regarding the incident mentioned by Mr. Hamzacebi, and this was discussed. So that's probably what it means.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0067par0193	Which one do you mean? I didn't say that!
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0066par0194	It's about loans used by a media group over the years from the Foundations Bank and the People's Bank.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0067par0195	How do you know they're talking?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0066par0196	I'm the one who gave the speech to the group against your client. Look, at the time, we made it very clear with his documents, his numbers, that he could be easily found in the records of the council. The interest rate is higher than the likes, and the collateral is more than the similar project loans. Incredibly, in every way, in fact, he did it completely against the person who took the loan. I mean, I don't want to start an argument, but this has been discussed, then, with his documents, the slightest inconvenience, all the documents that have no application except the rules of banking. So, if there's anything else out there that you know, let's come, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk. Dear friends, look, how should the measurement be in agriculture? So here's what everybody's saying. He died like this, and it ended like this. Look, the numbers were just given, and I'm saying it because it was before us in 2002.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0068par0198	Oh, come on, 2002, brother, look at today, today.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0066par0199	...the multinational income created in the sector, $23 billion, now $60 billion.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0068par0200	Why are you importing, why?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0066par0201	For God's sake, how does this shrink, how does this disappear? In addition, although the number of people who live on agriculture has also decreased, look, the number of employees has dropped from 36% to 24 per cent, although their national income has doubled, in real terms. For God's sake, is there any more measure than that? My dear friends, Mr. Öpün has just given me very misleading and false information. Look, 60 people were called into those meat tenders -- he was there when the tenders were made -- eight firms went in and you know how many numbers, not like he said, 12.4; the carcas cost $12.4. The sacrificial lamb, which Mr. Ensar Öğümün said, is a sacrificial animal... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...he was there in the same way... $5...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0069par0205	Thank you, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0070par0206	It's always the same guys getting the contracts, you tell them that.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0066par0207	...lowest prices and another price is 14.4 liras.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0069par0208	Mr. Canikli, please...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0066par0209	Dear friends, all of this is unreal. There is no such thing as the slightest violation, negativity to our farmers, to our citizens who live on livestock...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0071par0210	Mr. Canikli, what happened to the funds in the nuts?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0066par0211	...even so, these numbers need to be corrected. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0072par0214	Mr. Canicli, thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0073par0215	Why did you sell the animals?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0072par0216	I'd like to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0074par0219	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0072par0220	You want roll call, I'll do it. Let's identify 20 people first. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Altay, Mr. Taalioglu, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Öğüt, Mr. Gök, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Yüyüker, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Aksunger, Mr. Baydar, Mr. Bilgehan, Mr. Özbolat, Mr. Çetin, Mr. Özgündün. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now the Republican People's Party Group...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0075par0231	Mr. President, I'm sorry, but as I was just speaking... Mr. President spoke differently, my words have been distorted, I'd like to make a minute statement about him.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0076par0232	I didn't, I used the exact numbers.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0075par0233	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0077par0234	Within the limits of criticism, Mr. Önüt. We already voted on it, so that's that.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0075par0235	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0078par0236	That's what I said.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0075par0237	And when you multiply it, it's 1,800, 9,000, and when you multiply it, it's 18.252.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0079par0238	Thank you, Mr. Öğümün, your words have been filed.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0075par0239	That's 18,252 liras, not 12,000 liras.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0080par0240	14.4.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0075par0241	Twelve thousand liras is what was taken earlier.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0080par0242	No, the sacrifice is 14.4.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0081par0243	Thank you. Mr. Nebati and Mr. Commander, you have a request. In accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, we assess the proposals, the proposals, in accordance with Article 63 of the Civil Code. You're out of the question, sir. So, if there's any bullying or anything else, we'll consider it.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0082par0246	Mr. President, I just wanted to make a little statement.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0081par0247	Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0082par0248	Mr. President, just one little thing, a little something I'd like to present to the attention of the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0081par0249	Sir?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0082par0250	It's important, it's a simple explanation. It's not about the motion, it's about the language. I'm going to say something here for a minute.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0081par0251	I understand, Mr. Leader, that there has to be a way, so he has to have a place in the Civil Code so that we can promise you or promise Mr. Nebati.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0083par0252	Mr. President, he asked our group a question, so I...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0082par0253	Sir, if you have two, you can give them to me. What's the big deal? Wait a minute.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0081par0254	Please, Mr. Commander... thank you. Point: 95 23.11.2011 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council's meeting Wednesday (January 23,11,2011), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. M. Akif Hamzacebi Smyrna MP Mustafa MOROGLU and his friends suggested that the Parliament's Investigation Proclamation, which was given to the Turkish Parliament on October 27, 2011 about "the reasons for violence against the woman," be presented before other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly (95 rows) on Wednesday (23,11,2011). Ayşe Gülsun Bilgehan, Ankara MP who has asked for a statement in favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal. Here you are, Mr. Bilgehan.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0084par0267	Mr. President, thank you. Dear MPs, dear friends, I have received a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group proposal. My dear friends, I'm sure many women are getting violent in many parts of Turkey right now when I'm on the stand. Five of them are likely to be killed, and we'll be reading about them in the papers tomorrow. Violence against women all over the world is considered the most common, the most common, human rights violation. That's why November 25th was designated by the United Nations as the Day of the Battle of Violence Against Women. On that day, not just to women, but to all of us, it is our duty to create a world free of violence, where women do not die of violence, that we have to put up a serious fight so that they can live without violence. Members of parliament, according to the Minister of Justice's statement, violence against women in Turkey in recent years -- as you all know -- has increased by 1,400 per cent. It's not just because the problem is visible because it's based on events reflected in justice. We often don't know if the young women who died in tractor accidents were actually victims of murder when they were sentenced to suicide. As deputies of Turkey, we witness women's murders in a sense every day. How long do we have to watch these murders? Isn't it possible to stop these murders? Of course it's possible. Other countries have taken impressive measures and have succeeded to resolve this problem that has been on the agenda for years. One out of every five women in the world has been subjected to physical violence once in a lifetime, which unfortunately is one of three women in our country. So we didn't succeed. We are already the only country the European Court of Human Rights condemns, and we are faced with a conflicting fact. The more she talks about her rights, the more she raises equality, even after every legal improvement, it's as if the pain is removed from women. According to the study of Professor Dr. Yilmaz Esmer, some women deserve to be beaten by their husbands. In 1996, the proportion of those who say ▪ was 19 per cent, while in 2011 it was 30 per cent. As part of the same research, the acceptable rate for a man to have more than one spouse is 10 percent in 1996, 23 percent in 2011. Moreover, 19 percent of that figure is made up by women. So what we see here is very clearly that there are progresses in the law, we accept that, but there's a very serious way back in the mindset. We are already 122 percent among 135 countries on the World Economic Forum inequality list. Yes, we're the world's 16th largest economy, but we're 92nd in the development index. Early and forced marriages are 24 percent. One in four women were married early or forced to. That's 45 percent in most areas, so it's almost half the marriages. Can one build a family order based on mutual love and respect with a wife he does not want? Of course, it can't be installed, and the consequences, as we can see, are very severe. 7 percent of women have been exposed to sexual harassment and rape within the family. The truth points to the presence of a much deeper wound. In these households, on the streets, whose safety are we talking about? What criminals are we talking about here who are being punished for their crimes? Is it possible that 40 percent of women who make up half the population are a model of advanced democracy, a society that lives in fear? In 2004, 2005, a study was conducted under this roof. The Crime and Dignity Murders Report for Violence Against Women and Child Council Research has been drawn up. The results of this investigation have been implemented through a Prime Ministerial Generality. Surveillance was also assigned to a public organisation, the National Directorate of Women's Status. Surveillance reports show, unfortunately, his inadequacy. I've been on this board many times before, and it's already been on the table yesterday, and I know this has been discussed in Congress. In fact, on March 8th, a special session was held again, and I remember when Minister Nimet Chobukukur was sitting alone in the back row while I was speaking again on the stand. Later, in the 23rd term, the Male Opportunity Equality Commission was established. That was a positive development, but there are reports of them failing to implement it as well. Today is the day to revisit Congress research, to see the situation again, and to investigate the implementation by creating a new commission. We Republican People's Party MPs are prepared to sign a commission, a new commission immediately. Dear lawmakers, fighting violence isn't just by chance doing good things. It is important to take advantage of every opportunity we have. But fighting violence against women must be systematic. The restoration of the Law for the Protection of Family Number 4320 will be redesigned today. We watch and support the work conducted by the Minister of Family and Social Policy, Mr. Fatma Şahin. However, it is important to remember that fighting violence and domestic violence against a woman is too important to be carried out by a single law. I'll make a law, I'll finish the matter, we're not in a position to say. Also, 1. The National Action Plan to Fight Domestic Violence ended in 2010. He didn't have any budgets, a schedule, a proper schedule, a project. But we see that there is no new plan of action, no national action. In addition, seven years after Law 4320 came into force, all research shows that in seven years, there are many lawyers, lawyers, policemen who have never heard of it. So the essence of the matter is always practice. Have you ever read the news of a public official who's being investigated for not providing service to a woman who's been abused? There isn't. If we want women to be protected, not killed, their bodies and souls to be healthy, if we want our children to grow up in a clean family order, we can't just make a law. Our political messages have to be consistent. For example, the woman's name should not have been removed from the state ministry. The woman's name should not have been destroyed while making the Ministry of State responsible for family and social services the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. The masterful work of the Prime Minister should not only consider her a member of the family; it should reflect respect for her as an individual. Now, despite that, I continue to maintain hope. A very important international agreement by the Council of Europe has just been unanimous in the Foreign Affairs Commission. I know you've been unanimous in the Equality Commission before. I see that this is a very positive development. And, frankly, I've looked at the textbooks. There's a healing in those books, too. There were criticisms from NGOs. I looked over there. I've also given the Minister a question motion, and I've received his answer. And from that answer, I'd say I'm quite pleased. Now, as a result, at least for one thing, I sincerely hope that all the groups in this House will be united, and I'm sure that's what all the women's associations wish for. I believe it would be helpful at least to show our citizens that we can work together on something as a gesture of goodwill, at least in this regard, that we are united in the fight against violence and that we can agree on something. I salute you all with my best wishes, and I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0085par0292	Thank you, Mr. Bilgehan. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the proposal. Kemalettin Aydın is a member of the Silver House. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0086par0296	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's motion to investigate, and in the meantime, I'd like to give you some information about the equality of women and men during our party's time in power. It was a positive and meaningful Parliament move for our country that the equality of opportunity was established two years ago when we worked in the 23rd term -- as vice president of the Women's Association for Men's Opportunity Commission -- in the last 23rd term -- during which we worked in the 23rd term. In particular, Turkey's lack had been completed in talks with the European Union, especially since it was established by our Prime Minister's recommendation. This Commission has had a lot of work done. A study of violence has been conducted by our previous speaker friend, and today, in the investigations of Congress... is all in the library, and has been distributed to everyone at the Equivalence of Opportunity Commission. Here, a lot of data has been obtained, and new studies have been carried out based on the data obtained. In accordance with these studies, the first signing of the European Council Convention -- the first signing of our Minister of Foreign Affairs -- was signed by Turkey -- passed by the Opportunity Equality Commission the previous day, and today, as I know it, has passed through the Foreign Commission, coming to the Assembly's General Assembly. Here, when we study and study the draft of the law that our Ministry of Family and Social Policy is drafting, we see that all the shortcomings we detected in the 23rd term have been repaired. So, basically, in the 23rd term, there were 21-point proposals for legal space, 18-point proposals for the conditions of women staying in shelters and shelters, 12-point proposals for media and 31 proposals for the duties and coordination of public institutions. The overall conclusion is that this is one of our main problems in our country. We know that the laws you took out of the House with good intentions have problems applying in the field. Especially in a world where no one would approve of violence against women, in a world where none of us would even discuss it, even though all legal infrastructure has been provided here, we see that this legal infrastructure has not been met in the field. We also know that there is a need for a cultural transformation, and it can be thought of as a waste of time here today, perhaps in the House, by a number of people who have been arguing for a few years, what's the point? But I find it significant because I believe that even today's debate will have an effect on social transformation. But the results from the Parliament's research motion have already been achieved in the works of the Grand Assembly, and regulations have been made regarding it, and the shortcomings in 4320 are being resolved by both the European Council contract and by the legal proposals made by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy established by our government. In short, we want to say that there is a problem, a problem from the era of ignorance, a problem that has been going on in recent years. We are a political movement that is aware of this problem, and since this political movement has been established and governed, work has been published on the equality of women's opportunities in society and on increasing the rate of women's employment and on the work of the Prime Ministerate, and work has been fast in general. This month, in particular, has an International Day Against Violence Against Women on November 25th, and has been the joint work of our Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. In addition to the completion of the legal dimensions of this study, a government and co-workers who have already carried out their duties, as men, we want to say that we want to create this transformation in society and society, that we are male lawmakers. We are here. And we are in the declaration that we started today. And in the campaign, Mr. Prime Minister himself signed the first signature, followed by all our male lawmakers in our group. We say: "On the Day of International Fighting and Solidarity against Violence Against Women," we men believe that any violence against women as men is a fundamental human rights violation that threatens the right to life, painful and painful, that it hurts society deeply, that it weakens the family union, that it is a very important public health issue, that violence against women will never be legalized for any reason, such as the strict tradition. Our fellow believers, our brothers, our mother, our children who we trust with our future, women who have the same rights as men who make up half of this society. Therefore, we will not participate in violence against women, we will not stand by. Let us put our hands together to end the violence against the woman, and we are determined to do our part as men in the fight against the woman, and we are in it.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0087par0301	It's the board's commission, then.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0086par0302	And our Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan signed the first declaration, and believe me, the men of the entire EC PARTY group will sign it and will own it. And that's why we're on this road because we believe it. And in short, we see that what was already missing was already detected in earlier studies -- maybe not in the 23rd term, but they were unable to follow them -- and that the work on it was started, and that all the laws that I followed were completed. But at the core of the word, even though everything exists in the law, we are in a society that has difficulty implementing them in our world of life. In this social transformation, we know and accept that we men will exist in the intellectual transformation of this and that violence to women is an unacceptable event. In the busy working agenda of parliament, we feel that the already working and running work condemns enough violence against women, and that it is not necessary for us to conduct a parliamentary investigation into the infrastructure of a new legal study, so I say that I am a part of the emergency needs of parliament; that as a man, as a father, we are facing violence against the woman, that we are in this direction, and that there is no need to start a new study in the Parliament; that we all need to conduct this work in every environment, and that we need to do this work, and that all of us, in this great assembly group of political party members of ours, will be given to each of you, to sign this violence against her, to all of you, as a man.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0088par0305	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Pervin Buldan, Iğdır MP who has asked for a vote in favour of the Republican People's Party group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0089par0309	Thank you. Mr. President, before I start speaking, I would like to inform you that our mayors and city council members, especially the attorneys of the Asrın Law Bureau, who were detained in the operations carried out simultaneously in 16 provinces yesterday, are to be released immediately, and that I strongly condemn the operation carried out on this matter. Mr. President, the most valuable lawmakers include violence against women in public or in private life, the enjoyment of oppression and freedom, which, based on gender, results in physical, sexual and psychological damage and suffering, or could lead to such consequences. The acts of violence and threats include fear and insecurity in women's lives, whether it occurs within the house or in society, or whether it's done by the state or condoned by the government. Fear of violence, including harassment, is constantly pressuring the woman's mobility and restricting her access to her rights. Despite the developing female movement and human rights advocates, world states and societies fail to eliminate violence against women. On the world scale, one of the three women is still exposed to different forms of violence today. Women continue to face various forms of violence in every aspect of life, in their homes, in their workplaces, in their struggles in public areas. Women and girls are raped, murdered, or made subject of human trafficking in wars and internal conflicts that are going on around the world. On the European scale, researchers report that 200,000 women are sexually exploited in human trafficking networks every year. Dear lawmakers, we continue to watch reports of women shot in the knee every day in Turkey, stoned to death, murdered in honour, raped, and committed suicide in an uncertain manner. The violence in women's organisations' research is only part of the visible part of the iceberg. Despite low statistics on domestic violence, Turkey is at the top of the ranking. Studies to expose public violence, and those who have done so have been exposed to violence in our country. The detention is trying to cover up harassment and rape cases. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the murders committed in the name of honor are one of the most important of this type of violence. Violence against women threatens the physical and spiritual integrity of millions of women living in Turkey. In research, one of the three women in Turkey is subjected to violence. The most visible violence against women is domestic violence and male violence. Domestic violence, especially husband violence, is a decisive aspect of women's lives. Statistical data show that domestic violence is mainly male violence; that men are driven to violence as a way to implement their sovereignty and control over women; that physical violence can only be understood in this conflict of power and its relationship. The most important reason for male violence is the power relationship between men and women. Men who tend to build power over women use violence against women as a tool. Without taking seriously this ruling relationship, which is expressed as male sovereignty, we think it will be impossible to identify the features, causes, and consequences of domestic violence. Women bring more income into the family than their wives do, and it increases the risk of beatings by at least twice as much. Of every three women in this situation, two percent of them are subject to physical violence. It is the reason why men who have lost their economic power try to rivet their patriarchal authority by resorting to physical power. The fact that a woman is involved in production and profiting the family's budget is considered to be the shaking of power in terms of male-dominated culture, and as a result, the woman is still exposed to violence where she will be supported. Dear lawmakers, the higher the student situation, the fewer women suffer physical violence. In terms of access to education, the deep chasm between Turkey's east and the middle and west is a problem where education investments per person per person in the state's major eastern provinces are at the level of the average of Turkey, which is urgent to be seized. Today, women who are not illiterate in the middle and west of our country reach 42% in the east, almost 3 times that in the east. Women who have studied secondary school, high school, and university in the East have a total of one third of the rest of Turkey. Because the uneducated woman sees violence as her destiny and plays a passive role in fighting violence. He remains silent in his violence, unaware of the protection the law has given him. Currently, half the women in our country are unaware of the positive provisions made in the Civil Law, the Law on the Protection of the Family, and the developments in the Turkish Penal Code. So when he gets violent, he thinks that there will be no sanctions against those who caused it, that if he goes to the police station and complains, he will be put to peace and sent home, and then he will be subjected to violence again. Dear MPs, a Prime Minister's General Assembly was issued in July 2006. According to this sentence, a parliamentary research commission has been established to investigate the causes of crime against women and children and to determine the measures that must be taken. In accordance with the commission's report, the Prime Minister's General Assembly has also been issued. The Women's Status General Directorate of Turkey from the Grand National Assembly must be put into action immediately, explaining in detail what needs to be done in the field of education, health and law, which serves various service institutions. Mr. President, when I stop speaking, I would like to say once again that the immediate release of the 400 female politicians and our MP, Mr. Selma Irmak, who are currently under arrest from the TKK. In addition, the fight against violence against women should be fought together by both state and civil society organizations, and the efforts of independent women organisations should be supported, and the July 2006 Prime Ministerial Convention should be implemented. More budgets for education should be earmarked for women's education and projects to know their rights. An effective measure must be taken for the end of such practices as virginity control, involuntary sterilisation. In order to eliminate honor killings and force-producing suicides recently developed, action plans against feudal practices should be developed, and widespread educational and legal activities based on society-based changes in social and cultural attitudes should be developed. The number of clinics and shelters for women and girls must be increased. Women's organisations should be supported by such initiatives. I'm saying that the Convention on Personal and Political Rights of the United Nations, which has not yet been approved, and the Conventions on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights must be approved immediately. I respectfully salute the General Assembly, saying that we will vote in a positive light on the CHP's research motion.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0090par0332	Thank you, Mr. Buldan. The Republican People's Party Group has asked to take a stand against the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Heart.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0091par0336	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's group proposal to determine the reasons for the violence against the woman and the reasons for the removal of these causes. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, violence against women continues to exist as a problem in Turkey, as in all parts of the world. Violence against women deprives women of their most basic human rights, a social problem and an important public health problem resulting from non-equal power relations between men and women. The most important consequence of the international public view of violence against women as a human rights violation is that the state is held responsible for it. Violence against women is no longer just a question of women, but of all human rights advocates, men and women. Therefore, the issue of violence against women must be dealt with in a holistic manner and with the cooperation of all sectors. This has been on the agenda of the public and the state since the 1980s. However, in recent years, especially in the legal sense, many studies have been conducted and positive developments have been under way. In short, the Law for the Protection of Family 4320, which took effect in 1998 for the protection of women exposed to violence within the family, is an important turning point. For the protection of individuals exposed to violence within the family by the Law in question, measures that could be taken by family court judges were organised and were composed of four articles. Last semester, there is a report on the lack of legislation and implementation in preventing violence against women that I have primarily served as a subcommittee of the Women's Opportunity Equality Commission, which I chaired this term. With this report, there have been visits to women shelters to work and study, to see the problem in place, experts in the area of our Commission, representatives of NGOs, professors, ministry representatives, especially family court judges. We've distributed it to all concerned institutions and organizations, especially the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, to assess the consequences of our very vocal work. Again, at this time, our Human Rights Commission has established a subcommittee for violence against the woman, and we have appointed a member of our Commission, a member of our member of parliament, and this commission is currently in operation. As a result of these studies, the bill our Ministry of Family and Social Policy has drawn up is an important bill that will replace Family Protection of 4320. In response to this need, our Ministry of Family and Social Policy has drawn up a very broad conceptual outcome, and the bill that wins the appreciation of all sides is made up of 26 articles, bringing very different and important regulations from Law 4320. In short, the scope of individuals protected by the bill has been expanded once. The state's attorney general's office and the law enforcement department have been established to protect them from violence. As part of the bill, supervised liberalisation and relief center branch offices have been established and have been tasked with the task of consulting and assisting the administrations on the rights of protected individuals, the institutions to receive support, employment, the solution to psychosocial and economic problems. However, two of the most important innovations the bill brings are that delays and alternative sanctions can't be ruled out, and cases can be discussed on a judicial holiday, as well as on a hasty basis. The monitoring system has been developed by means of electronic monitoring to ensure more effective implementation of protective measures decisions. However, at the meeting of our commission yesterday, he referred the Court of Foreign Affairs, the main commission, with the proper opinion, to prevent violence and domestic violence against the woman we met as a commission, and to approve the Council of Europe's Convention on fighting them. This contract, referred to as the Istanbul Convention, is the first international contract on violence against the woman. This agreement, a detailed international agreement of 81 articles, will become a law, and countries confirming domestic violence against women will be subject to very detailed and heavy obligations. Here I congratulate my dear fellow lawmakers, who have carried out an extraordinary work to become the first country to ratify such a detailed contract. Today, the main commission, I wish that this international agreement, which will meet with the Foreign Affairs Commission and immediately come to the General Assembly, should be a blessing. In addition to the legal arrangement, as my speaker friend has just mentioned, we are here to announce the signing of the signing campaign to you and we expect all of you to support us. Wherever he is, in sports, in traffic, in Congress, in the family, we always say no to violence to women, children. And I want to say, I'd like to write the fight on the leaf of the tree, in order for autumn to fall, the leaves to fall. I'd like to write hate on clouds, rain, clouds to disappear.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0092par0350	It's raining on people, it's raining on nature, but don't let it rain on you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0091par0351	I'd like to write anger on the snow, for the sun to shine, for the snow to melt. I'd like to write love and friendship into the hearts of all newborn babies, so that they can grow, envelop the world. With love, friendship, I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0093par0354	Why don't you tell the Prime Minister?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0094par0355	Why don't you write that in your own heart?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0095par0356	Thank you, Mr. Heart.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0096par0357	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit03spe0095par0358	I submit the Republican People's Party Group's proposal to your votes, but I will look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit04spe0095par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 22nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will begin talks with Ankara MP Emine Güdar Tarhan, MP of the Nationalist Movement Party Group, Mehmet Şansin, MP of the Council of Peace and Democracy Party, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan, who has been placed in the 2nd ranking position of Justice and Development Party's Deputy Chairman, Nurettin Canikli, Republican People's Party Deputy Chair, and Justice Commission Report.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit04spe0097par0004	Mr. President, our Group Vice President has withdrawn his signature.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit04spe0095par0005	You will, sir. I started seeing him. You will, you will. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed by 80 rows. Adana MP Murat Bozlak has asked on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on top of the proposal. Mr. Grizzly will now state, sir, that you have withdrawn. Here you go. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is twenty minutes, Mr. Grizzly.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit04spe0098par0013	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group to discuss the overall Law Proposal on the Protection of Violence and Corruption in Sports 6222. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, you've already stated that even though our Group Vice President friend has already signed this bill, he later withdrew his signature from the bill on behalf of our group. (x) 80 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Dear lawmakers, there has been a new operation that we are all watching today, especially aimed at the BDP, which AKP is behind before we start speaking. This time it's not the BDP people, it's the lawyers. Shortly before that, Mr. Prime Minister pointed to the legal office of Asrın, saying the operations would work against lawyers. In previous times, the former prime ministers had indicated similar operations, and the list of Kurdish businessmen was in my pocket. But now those prime ministers aren't here, they've destroyed their whole party together. I would like to bring this especially to the attention of our friends from the AKP. The AKP's point of view from democratic expansion is the way it results in political pressure and violence, which will never be possible to achieve results. Let's aim for Kurdish democratic politics and destroy the mountain, and take the plain where we found it, and put it in prison. We can't take this country anywhere. This logic only harms this country. Dear friends, I believe the AKP must give this up immediately. When you forbid democratic politics from Kurdish people, you show them the way to the mountain. If you lead the Kurdish people to the mountain, it'll be difficult to return. The Kurdish people, however, want to live in peace with their Kurdish brothers in Turkey, Turkish brothers, Circasics, Arabs, all together in equal and free conditions. I'd like to point out that I once again condemn the operation that was carried out after that. An AKP MP friend of ours, yesterday, when the bill change was being discussed in the commission, while I was sitting in the village in coffee, a voter, a peasant, came to rescue Aziz Yıldırım? He said, "Will you pass this law?" I said I would refuse because of him. He made a very good decision, and I congratulate him, but unfortunately, now when this friend of ours goes to his village, he'll say, "O my friends, I did not stop St. Yıldırım's arrest, but instead, I think he'll say, thanks to our friends, 70 lawyers. Dear friends, we've just arrived in Parliament. As of the day I arrived, I saw a word being taken in favor and against, especially outside the agenda. Our friends, who have spoken in favor of the favor, speak against it, who speak against it; it was really starting to seem extremely boring to me, but I saw that the AKP had not given Parliament a chance to do its legislature. The AKP has handed over its legislative mandate to the government itself, and its mandate is carried out by the government, with decrees issued by the law enforcement force. A friend of ours just mentioned that 50 days have passed since October 1st, and for the first time, a proposal of law is coming. And before that, there was a declaration of war, this Congress, which will be the second. Now, I think if this had been any other way, it wouldn't have been brought in. The AKP, in fact, is trying to make opposition parties a partner in this mistake by bringing in this law, which again envisions the covert pardon of these fraud indictees. We need to see this, guys. And I'll tell you this: I've also witnessed two events that I've witnessed for the first time in this House: one of them, I thought groups never agree, but I've seen them agree at some point. So, while we were discussing yesterday's proposal for the law, our group's deputy presidents made a very clear deal. Oh, I wish this would continue, and I think it should continue to address the problems that Turkey really needs. Yesterday, I witnessed something else, something extremely negative, which is that I witnessed an offer of law being discussed in the Justice Commission under the supervision of the accused. The suspects are in the chamber of the Justice Commission, and we are in their custody, and Mr. President is here, and he should have basically taken those indictees out, I think, with the President's permission. Dear friends, in sports, in Turkey, football is the world's leading sport. There are millions of fans in a sport, members of our clubs that have found millions, and especially in us, as in the whole world, football games are being watched with pleasure, while we have seen many negative actions in sports because of the fanaticism that has developed in football. The fights, the obvious swearing, the racist rhetoric, that's all we didn't want to hear, but we heard it with our ears. Besides, the violence took its toll. We've all seen knives and lines together. And as it turns out, some of the people who watched the game were stabbed to death. At the height of this violence, on the other hand, some of the managers of sports clubs, unfortunately, tried to acquire what they didn't deserve with their financial power, and rumors of fraud and incentives became public. The managers of sports clubs then come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to discuss their problems, their problems, their problems, and listen to their problems, and our Assembly, which has passed the law, which we want to change for the time being, which prevents violence and disorder in sports, which is dated 31/3/2011. When the law has been passed against the executives who have made this request and have contributed to the drafting of the bill, I mean, some of the club's valued executives have been investigated and taken into custody because of this law, we saw the same executives staying out here yesterday, working in Parliament. They're here again. They say, frankly, the law, thank you, you did. In fact, they didn't think it would actually apply to them. They probably thought it was for the poor, the stabbed, the beaten who came to that game again. When the law comes back and tries to implement it for them, they come this time, asking for the fines to be taken down. A amendment to the essence of the law is not required; it is requested that the sentences be reduced. Now, the proposal for the law that comes before us, the lower limit of the sentence, which is five years in Article 11, is reduced to one year. How long have they been under arrest? It must have been about six months since they were arrested in July. Now, if we reduce the sentence to a year, and he reduces it for good, the court will likely be considered a year here as well -- which is usually punishable by the lower bounds in the courts. It was given from the lower border, and because of its good behavior, if you give it a discount of 59, it's enough time to go to bed. So, those who bring the proposal say to our fellow commissioner: "Don't do anything, there's no need to delay." Why isn't there? If the sentence is suspended within the general provisions, the crime will be postponed. No, what we want is to end the arrest. Since the sentence is due to a year's sentence, they have no objections. In the end, the five-year sentence envisioned in this law, where we, our Parliament, reduces the year, the courts must release all of the indictees who are under arrest. Why? The punishment was executed, so he has to let go. What's this? That is a remitted pardon. Now, when this offer is accepted, we make a covert pardon. We don't need to get a general pardon. This is an intervention in the judiciary. I thought you said there was no interference. The investigation has begun, Mr. Minister of Justice says that the investigation into the KCK case has begun, and I can't say anything. Here, the investigation is ongoing, you're changing the law. This is also an intervention in the judiciary, plus the special penal code cannot be passed against the person. It is a clear, obvious intervention in the principle of the person. Now, high-value lawmakers, that's not Turkey's main problem. We're not for punishment. In fact, I'm opposed to a one-year sentence, with a one-year sentence, with a one-year lower limit, three-year maximum. From one year to three years. When you say "scissors for two years," it's obvious, it's the right of recognition to judges, to courts, and somewhere, the duty of life is to be handed over to them. This is an arrangement that will cause some abuse. We're not for punishment, but let's make arrangements that really don't bother the public conscience of the general public. Aren't these 8 members of Parliament currently in prison? Aren't those the MPs from the three opposition parties? Opposition parties, why don't we get together and do a study to remove the arrest of these friends and get together to arrest the suspects? Gene, the Constitution is being studied, it's being conducted. In the name of road cleaning by our party, we can make special, personal laws, while some of the arrangements that everyone is really uncomfortable with right now are asked by Parliament to make them first. For that reason, dear lawmakers, we need to make legal arrangements that may lead to our social peace, instead of an arrangement that envisions a private, veiled pardon for individuals -- that public opinion is constrained by conscience. We must certainly bring this to the agenda of the House, especially the opposition parties, because I can see that the AKP does not intend to do so. The AKP says what I said. There's a majority of law enforcement, a majority of legislatures, a majority of which are already in the AKP. Now, with such interference in the matter of the judiciary, we will have eliminated the separation of forces by our own hand. Three men, three states men united in one hand means fascism. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit04spe0099par0038	Thank you, Mr. Grizzly. Turgut Dibek, a member of the Cırklareli, has been asked to speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Dibek.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit04spe0100par0042	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, yes, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the whole of the 80-line law that came very quickly. First of all, I salute you. Dear friends, this bill was submitted to the House under the signature of the members of the group of the four political parties in parliament, you know, recently. As our BDP friend, Mr. Bozlak, has just stated, they withdrew their signatures, which were discussed in the Commission yesterday, but was a proposal for a law that came with a settlement. Of course, what we were thinking, actually, friends, is that at the beginning of the 24th term as Congress, we're taking out the first law, so we're actually making a law like this, and that shouldn't be the law that all political parties agreed on. So if there's a law, if there's an arrangement, if there's a need for it, if we're really going to make such an arrangement, dear friends, eight of these Parliament's MPs are currently under arrest, in prison. If an arrangement was to be made about them, it would have to be done with this agreement. I mean, why couldn't we show this agreement there? Actually, I'll talk to you about that in a little bit. I mean, we made a deal, actually, with the ruling party, why weren't those promises kept? Not just the Republican People's Party, but two of our fellow MPs are under arrest, but one member of the National Movement Party is under arrest, and five MPs, members of the BDP, are also in prison. Now, it's true, it's spoken in society, it's on the agenda of Turkey, so it's the Law on Violence and Disorganization in this sport I'm talking about. There was an operation in July. We love sports, we all love sports. Our friend has just stated that the president of football clubs, the President of the Clubs, Mr. Yıldırım Demirören, the managers from the Football Federation were here, the Deputy Director of Fenerbahçe was here yesterday in negotiations on the Commission. Dear friends, Turkey is talking about this, but Turkey has very important issues with the sensitivity of our people, and there are very important cases, so I don't want to get out of the question, let's share a little bit of our thoughts with you by talking about trial on the legal ground. I'm going to come to this law, so I'm going to point out what point you've come to with this law, but, dear friends, we shouldn't be running away from convenience. Yesterday, I told you on the commission, there are political cases today that are so important to the country's agenda, let's not say legal or legal. Now, if we ignore them, we're betting on the bleachers, the football term, that's what I said yesterday. Dear friends, on Monday, the day before yesterday, in the press conference room of the House, in the living room, the relatives of our arrested congressman friends, and again, Mr. Tuncay Özkan, his daughter, held a press conference, and you've seen it from the press, from the televisions. Mr. Haberal Bey, Ali Haberal, brother of Mr. Balbay, took the oath, and told him of his thoughts, feelings, and feelings. A thousand days gone by, a thousand days... so it's easy to say. Even if we count them one by one, there's been a really, really bad process. Look, there are cases on the country's agenda that have lost their legal ground, which is now accepted by everyone in political context, so God saves the person who falls there, so you're down here now, three years or five years. There are cases in people's minds, but in those cases, people are fighting for life, fighting for life. Today we delay them, we push them, we push them aside, we talk about this case, this case, this event that really is on the country's agenda, together, as all political parties. Can you say we don't talk, let's talk, but I don't know if you understand how we feel, or do you understand our feelings, or our fellow inmates or other prisoners? Mr. Hursit Tolon said something, friends, all together, we have fellow lawyers here, three years and two months later, my testimony was taken. He said, "It could be at that time." He said, "My testimony has been taken." He wasn't under arrest. Let's take a look at the arrests. So he gave his statement two years, a year and a half ago, a year and a half ago. The court has taken his statement, he has heard it, but you will still remain here, he says, dear friends. There is such a trial in Turkey, a process such as this aching conscience. Now, we hope, or we think, that we want to, as dear friends, political parties, to show this beautiful painting, this picture shown in this law, as soon as possible, for these cases. By the way, dear friends, there's another legal case, another one that's keeping the agenda busy -- I mean, we can say it was, but it's going on right now. And he kept busy, and he was being talked about, and the press was watching, and we were following. You don't like it when I say it, and yesterday on the commission, friends say, "What's the place?" They say, "The Lighthouse case." He's also a case on the country's agenda, where friends, people have been arrested, there are judges, there are prosecutors, people have been detained as suspects, people have been questioned, prosecutors have been asked to arrest him, judges have been arrested. There's a process going on. So put two side by side, before this happens. Friends, the suspects in the Lighthouse were arrested after three months and 90 days; they were released 90 days later in Turkey. In front of me -- I'm going to read it to you right now -- and I want it to go into the transcripts because -- there's a reason for the judge's decision to evacuate that case. Plus, there's a very important name inside the Council of Ministers established by the AKP, an assessment of that decision by the Deputy Prime Minister of Personality, Mr. Bkent Arinc. I'm sure you've read that evaluation. Now, what's going on in there? What's going on in Silivri? What's going on with the sledgehammer? What's going on with this sports trial? Let's all consider it together, because I think it's all one. Look, guys, three months later, the judge on the case, 13th. Chief Criminal Court Judge Hasan Akçam says there is an investigation that has been going on for a long period of time, which says that all evidence has been collected and the testimony of the suspects has been taken, and continues to stress that the suspects' controls can be carried out not only through arrest, but through judicial supervision, that they have been arrested for three months and ten days, and that a longer arrest could turn into punishment. You know what he says? I've collected the evidence. He says, "I've taken the statements of these people." He says, "I mean, to keep them longer means to punish them." He says, "The purpose of arrest exceeds its purpose, its character." I agree with this judge friend of ours, our friend of the judge, has done the right thing to me, and if he is, I mean, he knows the file, I don't know the file, but when we look at the motive, I think the motive is the right judge. Dear friends, arrest is not necessary, there are other measures. He says, "These people don't run away." He says, "They're all respectable people." We have Sebahat Haným, who has been elected by the people's votes, who has been elected by hundreds of thousands of votes, who has been elected by parliament, who has been implemented before, who is still second term here at the BDP, who is also acting as a member of parliament at this time. He was picked last semester while he was in prison. He was given an app. Other than that app, no, if we let you go now, you'll run away. It's been three and a half years, but we haven't collected the evidence. There's also a trial. So, please put these aside, and then let's look at this case, or rather this case, dear friends. Of course, after this process, dear friends of Mr. Arinc's, as every lawyer's, as we all do, whose conscience did not allow any more silence. Look, what Mr. Arinc said: their isolation will bring joy to us, no matter who it is. It is not pleasant to be bound by a man's freedom, to be imprisoned, or to be convicted. But the rest is very important, he says: I wish the judge who evacuated them would set an example for the judges in other cases. I believe in his heart that soon other courts, committees, or judges will probably start making evacuation decisions. He has that kind of expectation. It's going on. I want to say it in case they have to start. Otherwise, there's no explanation. He's the judge of the court here, and that's the judge of the court. This one's a prisoner, and that one's a prisoner. A woman named Sebahat Tuncel does not accept the fact that a parliamentary opportunity is not applied today to the elected MP Mustafa Balbay, Haberal and Engin Alan. I don't think that's true. He says that, and finally, I believe that the evacuation of the Lighthouse defendants is a precedent for those who are tried in all cases. Guys, I think that's a very important explanation. So, when we look at it, the explanation a lawyer needs to make, I agree with that statement to the end, but so far, dear friends, nothing has changed. I mean, the judges, of course, do their duty. So when we try to talk about something about them, right here, it's said by you, right now, that there's a 138th article of our constitution, and there's a second joke. No one intervenes in judgment, judges cannot be instructed, judges cannot be advised and counseled. Judges are independent. • Is that so? I told you yesterday, I have to say, we saw for ourselves that it wasn't. So I'm not talking about this case. Look, dear friends, in the meeting with the PKK, there was a very clear confession in the meeting of government officials regarding the incident in Habur. Do you know what Afet said in these statements, which leaked to the press and were not denied in any way: "The law has been destroyed, and the law has been ignored." We destroyed the law. We made a promise, and we won't arrest him. He said, "We want to train the Prime Minister without money in this country." The students who put up banners -- tens of them -- were in there, and there were judges who arrested them. Now I'd like to ask you, the judge and prosecutors who went to Habur. I think they went from Diyarbakır. They were taken away. They were taken by helicopter. So the terrorists waited in Habur. We took the judge and the prosecutor, put them in the helicopter. Who told them what? There's 138/2, so remember, no one can interfere according to 138/2, but I want those judges and prosecutors to come out. Someone told them: "Friends, we made a promise, we made a deal, you won't arrest them, you'll release them, no matter what they say, we're not sorry." You'll write it down, you'll do it. Now, I would like to express my regret that after seeing these events, I would like to point out that the truth that happened at the Lighthouse, if there is a right process -- if evidence is collected, there is no point in arrest, there is no point in being arrested -- but on the other hand, dear friends, if people over a thousand days are under arrest, and who are under the title of MP, I'm simply saying -- maybe someone didn't pick up the phone, because we didn't answer the phone, because we didn't answer the phone. Justice ministers, at the time, we know that our congressman here is now making a phone call, but those judges and prosecutors are doing what they need to do now. That, too, dear friends, is a duty I know to state here. Look, I've got this memorandum of understanding with my signature on it. On July 11th, we did this protocol with the members of the group in the AKP Group -- Mr. Aydın is here; he has a signature; Mr. Canikli has a signature, and Mr. Haluk Silk is the Vice President; we had Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, I and Aydın Ayyadın -- What was this protocol for? Our arrested MPs need to be in Parliament, so we've explained our opinions, we've shared our position with the public, and we've said one more thing, and we've actually told the judges and prosecutors who are doing the trial in Turkey that there are two groups of Parliament: there is a Constitution in this country, there are 90 percent of the Constitution, there are international legislatures, there are international decrees, we have a signature that requires that we comply with these court decisions, and when you open them and look at them, no one expects the MPs to be arrested. Now, there's also our legislation: we have the Turkish Penal Code, we have the Penal Code, but we say that all MPs, elected MPs, are present here, but the ongoing trials are important in the fifth paragraph... take into account all these regulations under the rule of law, friends, and most importantly, we've stated: interpret freedoms exponentially. Look at the Constitution, the European Court of Human Rights decisions, the contracts, and then say, "Is it right for them to be imprisoned for so long?" What is the world doing, what is Europe doing, what did the European Court of Human Rights say about the period of imprisonment? That's what we're saying here. So far, no one's paying attention. We also signed for these to be taken. If not, dear friends, then this is the lawmaker, Parliament, look, we've brought the law here now, and we'll take it out a little bit later, maybe tomorrow, the next day, I don't know what day our President will sign it, it'll be published in the Official Gazette, and maybe the concerned judges, the defendants, who are expected to be tried in this case, will be released in the amount of time they've been held in this trial, so February, March, I don't know, in March, they'll do this without waiting for trial. Sometimes there's a beautiful thing you say, and you say it when you're stuck, and the eyes go blind, and there's a lock on the mouth, and the ears don't hear it. Dear friends, here's your signature, and here's where friends don't look, so we have friends who sign for it. I want to say once again, dear friends, that we must clear this shame to all political parties. This shame is published on the websites of Turkey as a historical shame. There's no way we can stay quiet this long. Come on, everybody, look, we're doing it here, so I'm thinking we should get this sorted out. Now, let me tell you about the law, my dear friends, when the law came to the House, it was agreed upon, but what we saw was that the Clubs' Association made such a draft. You know, the Levent Knife guy did a study on it. They brought it here, and then the entire group's vice presidents, if you've agreed, we've agreed on this law....... and the Covenant has been reached. A topic spoken in Turkey has now become a real problem, and let me be clear: I was a member of Parliament last semester. In the 23rd term, when we passed this law from the Justice Commission... it passed in March, dear friends, past the end of March, so it passed in early April. Many of us had started campaigning; we had primary choices, we weren't here. This wasn't very vetted when we passed the Commission, I'm talking about Law 6222. As a lawyer, I see that punishments are too severe, so that's not going to happen. At the end of last year, in December 2010, we also reduced the penalty for the abuse of the office brought by the AKP (AKP), which we also downloaded in the Commission. The order was a law. You know, from one to three years. Who's abusing the mission? Officers use it, public servants use it, when they're corrupt, so they use their authority. We cut him down from six months to two years, pulled him into the probation zone. We've interviewed him in the Commission, we've brought him here, but for your comparison, a very high sentence here from five to twelve years, how did it get out of sight? He's gone. That's the way I see it, when I say shoot, I think the killer is the lawmaker, but when he came into practice, it turned out to be wrong. That's what's being offered to right this wrong. Of course, there were one or two points in the Commission, where we considered the first coming, where the other political parties, the AKP, and the DP, also saw it as inconvenient, and the BDP saw it as ineffective, and we corrected them in the Commission, my friends. The most important thing was that it already has a clause, the 11th article. So the change in the 11th amendment in the existing law, which comes as the 1st article, is also discussed in public. Directors, Federation executives, club presidents, club managers, technical committees, footballers, those who are there, if they are being investigated or charged with any investigation into this crime, the decision to ban the prosecutor, the judge on the duties of these people... so they can't do their jobs, they can't do their job, they can't do their job, they can't be taken away from the board of directors, they can be taken away from the board of directors. At what stage? There was an arrangement that would be taken away from them in the process of prosecution plus trial, that the court would decide that, which was very wrong. These are the frat boys. It's an administrative event. These are community benefit associations. You know, when the court comes in... and we call it the law of innocence, people are condemned only by conviction, and before that, everyone is innocent. We said, "How can such a thing happen?" Friends, each of us, in the AKP, in the MPP, said, "Yes, that's not going to happen." He said, "We have removed it with the motion, but after being convicted, there is already Article 53 of the Turkish Penal Code, which will be applied and carried out. What we corrected by another motion was that these sentences were probably a little high, thought to have been reduced. These were chains, and there was a decree on what kind of increase would be applied if more than one was processed. And he's...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit04spe0101par0065	Mr. Dibek, thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit04spe0100par0066	Just a minute, Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit04spe0101par0067	Please...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit04spe0100par0068	It was given in previous applications, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit04spe0101par0069	No. We don't have any other applications, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit04spe0100par0070	Thank you, guys.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit04spe0101par0072	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. Congressmans, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0101par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 22nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 80. The commission and the government are in place. On top of the whole proposal, it is now said that Erzurum MP Oktay Özturk is in charge of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0102par0006	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express the views of the National Party for Action Group on the Law Proposal and Commission Report on the Protection of Violence and Corruption in Sports. On this occasion, I salute you all. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been open for about five months since the June 12th elections, and the Parliament has been open for fifty-three days since October 1st. Of course, by the way, we've got 550 MPs, $27,500 of our salary. However, today we have been able to discuss a law that has yet to be met with a more social response. However, this Parliament has been chosen to establish law, to solve the problems of the nation, and the elections have been made for him, and its duty is to run the House. So far, there's been 35 decrees in law enforcement. We're concerned, is this a way to disable the House? Hopefully, we won't be justified in our concerns. Dear lawmakers, both in our country and in the world, have brought with them sports, huge budgets, and, of course, a natural extension of the land and quantity. Where there is a return, there are serious disputes, and there are serious fights, a historical fact. As a legislature, new regulations in this open area in our country were inevitable. However, the cantar's mace has gone too far, and it is now being attempted to balance the comparison of crime and punishment to the study brought before you. In particular, it has been stressed how important this issue is by preventing such practices, such as the suspension, the suspension of the sentence, the transfer of money in the penalty for crimes committed in this area. In sports-based crimes in our country -- whether it's violence or fraud -- we need to know that we can't compromise on this, but the fact that we've completed this task as legislation is not enough. The case must be carried out in a serious, decisive and persistent period of judgment, and our country must be a hell of a place for sports crimes. However, today's judicial community does not give us complete confidence at this point. I'd like to present this issue in the presence of the Parliamentary General Assembly as a note of history. İstanbul Special Prosecutor's Office is launching an organised criminal investigation into TK 220 in 2010. In April 2011, the Legislative Assembly made arrangements known as the Violence Act in the sports. Suddenly, for some reason, the investigation turns into a fraud investigation. Of course, if there's any opposition to this law after April, it will be a matter of investigation, but then the relevant prosecution will ask for physical and technical surveillance permits based on this criminal investigation. Then you would say the democratic opening, but you would close with the intention of doing a prosecutor's job. With this method, everyone is investigated in every way. Look, the Istanbul Special Prosecutor's Office has also made a confidentiality decision in its investigation, and unfortunately this request for privacy has been granted by the Special Prosecutor's Office, who has used it wherever he wishes. He didn't mind giving the Football Federation an example of the files. He didn't mind informing the UEFA officer from Europe, but the defendants, the defendants, the lawyers, and the public opinion have been compromised. Unfortunately, the Football Federation did not have the right stance at this point. He was an extravagant deliveryer of responsibility to UEFA officials, while he was prejudicial to his country's athletes and clubs, without mercy. The president of the Federation can express that there is nothing wrong with country football, in a very special way, against the cries of a manager who is overwhelmed by the pressure of the investigation. I wonder if one in a thousand of these events would have been so insensitive if it had happened in the Federation President's corporations. UEFA officials met with the prosecutor for 90 minutes during their visit to the special prosecutor, even though he had Federation officials with him. Since there was a stranger at the meeting, the talks were translated. Well, that's 45 minutes straight. Since both sides have spoken during this period, the duration of the talk to the UEFA officer is reduced to 20 minutes. That's enough for this 20-minute wiretap, so that UEFA President Platini was able to practice at meetings and toss our club out of the race, whose entire plan was based on the Champions League. It's not 20 minutes, it's not information, it's not enough for the officer who came to our country, even the president. I'd like to examine this information from the investigation window now. The law enforcement has received instructions from the special prosecutor, and according to the CMC, he has launched a physical and technical pursuit, he has heard the talks of fraud, he has photographed and recorded the transactions. I find it hard to understand, brother, do you have beets on your hands, so why don't you make the trade red-handed? Is your intention to prevent crime, to ensure the crime is committed, to put pressure on someone? If you don't do this, then as a result, you'll be able to create an opinion, a perception, in order to accuse the criminal. The footballer's lawyer shouts: the box in my picture is a watch box, but according to the special prosecutor, it's a money box. Is this going to be accepted with absolute certainty that there will be no doubt about it? What point of doubt would the defendant benefit from? Some criticism is being made in public that the government will reduce the sentences and save someone. And we answer: "There must be a fair comparison between punishment and crime. On the one hand, the most competent mouths for the release of the people's money are justice. More imprisonment is injustice. On the other hand, you will address me with an attitude that says to me what is not mine. It is not justice, it is persecution, it is persecution, it is oppression, and it does not remain on the ground. Justice doesn't do injustice, the state doesn't do injustice. The federation, which has not claimed its team, has set up an ethical board with a secret investigation file, and has drawn up reports, is not very well-intentioned to me -- this front, which has been created by the special prosecutor, who began the investigation in 2010, according to the law in which he requested secrecy, not preventing crime from operating in the investigation. In fact, we're forced to seek goodwill, let alone goodwill. Nowadays, a retired pasha has been touched by the untouchables. If that's the target, it's a success. We will touch the untouchable. We have been able to victimize the club that entered the first 10 chapters of Europe and, in doing so, did not receive help from any state institution. We had to disband the team, lose their players, and -bravo us -- we did it! The confidential investigation file has been classified, not classified, and no matter what outcome they disclose, no matter what evidence they submit, an indictment has been filed without being disclosed. Look, it's item six from the Football Federation Ethics Board's Instruction. Article 4 of the chapter "Investigation, Research and Investigation" states: "Investigation of applications which appear to have been processed by the disciplinary board or by the disciplinary board is stopped." But in this case, they can't stop. We can't tell if the brake system is broken or if another directive has passed this order. The FIFA President has clearly and clearly managed to victimise the country's pride club as I have just mentioned, as he has claimed the Sion Club-UEFA competition, as well as the national team -- you will remember -- in connection with the match against Turkey. Of course, my speech should not result in the fact that I'm a lawyer for the fixers. If there are those in that opinion, I'd like to say in advance that as a lawyer, and especially as a nation's son who has taken authority from my nation, of course, we will hear the cries. As one of our former Justice ministers once said: "Second the prosecutors of the Republic, the lost plow of the Turkish peasant working on the coast of Meric, you are responsible for the tears of orphans who are waiting for the maintenance of the mountains of Bingol, or have the duties of the prosecutors changed?" The criminal investigation has turned into a lynching. This lynching must stop. This law is a means to an end, and the pursuit of a criminal shouldn't be sanctioned. On this occasion, I would like to submit my views to the General Assembly. The Football Federation's autonomy efforts have been shaped by a certain law. However, this law has failed to autonomise the Football Federation against pressure groups. There is no way to mention that political power has no pressure on the Football Federation, while an eighty-one county body discipline director is voting as a commissioner in the Football Federation elections. How right is it to vote on the Football General Assembly for professional referees, former referees, football players, or former football players, who have also served football for wages or still serve? And it's not for a fee, it's for a heart job, it's for a bunch of amateur league managers who spend money out of their pockets, most of them don't even have the ability to watch the General Assembly as an audience. For real autonomous football, the law must be reassessed, as it is today, and re-prepared with cooperation. Club managers should even manage football because they know the amateur issues of football and the professional benefits of football. The state must refrain from becoming the sword of a Damocles, above true autonomous football. One day, I hope, under this sacred roof, we will be able to talk to organized criminals who conspire to commit crimes. Under the government's roof, illegal formations, actions, activities, investigations, hopefully we'll get a chance to talk here. We're keeping our hopes up on this. Now, with a fine cooperation, our High Council has handled and orchestrated the matter under legislature. I wish that the practice would be with a sense of justice, a fine cooperation of the justice organization, and that our country, our nation, and our justice. With these feelings, I salute you all, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0103par0025	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Now, who wants to speak for the AK PARTY Group is the villager, the Kastamon MP. Here you go, Mr. Villageman.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0104par0029	Mr. President, I would like to present to you the views of the EC PARTY Group on Law Proposal 80. I hereby salute the High Council. I'd like to present some information about the Law on Violence and Anti-Organism in Sports No. 6222, which, in fact, has led to the offer of this law before we go to the core of the proposed law. Gene, we had the Law on Violence and Disorganization in Sports 5149, which we took out in 2004. After a few years, the truth of a new law was revealed. What was the reason for that? At the time, there were administrative fines prepared and demanded by the Youth Sports General Directorate and the Football Federation and other federations. These administrative fines could not be applied or collected even if fines were issued. The ban on competitions is not usually imposed, but the ban on competitions could not be prevented from being taken into the stadiums. There was no cure for the actions of the fans outside the stadium, and those actions continued. Thus, the law did not achieve the desired purpose, was not properly implemented, and a new law was needed. That's why Law 6222 is on the agenda. What was done in this Law, I want to briefly talk about them. When the fans begin to go to a sports competition with another city, they expect that they will be banned from entering sports competitions for a period of time, as well as from entering sports competitions in the other city, in which they have arrived, in the vicinity of the stadium and in the direction of all the fans, due to their violent activities there. Other than that, the stadiums are equipped with cameras to ensure full security. It's been there before, but it hasn't been implemented. There are two episodes where these cameras are monitored, security forces are on camera in these parts, and the representative of the sports club is on camera, where all the events in the stadium are recorded, and if there was an incident, if there was an incident, one of the acts considered in the Law, are being submitted to both the sports club and the republic's prosecutor's office. Another feature, especially if any of the people who were in the stands during the competition were to disrupt the sport order, the competition order, in which case these individuals or those who acted against the competition, were taken by security forces and prepared for two clubs separately, and were brought to two sections with a capacity of 20 degrees each, and are kept in security here. Other than that, electronic ticket practice is now being introduced to the top league in football and a minor league in basketball and volleyball to get into the stadium. With this ticket app, those who want to go to the game, those who want to go to the sports match get a card in a very short period of time by going to the system where the clubs are located, in stadiums, or in pre-existing places, such as the bank card, the subject of the games they're going to this card, this person can go to the game with the card. If he has a curfew, if he's banned, the card signals when he comes to the door and he's banned from entering. One way or another, the past is redetected and brought out. And everyone's position is predetermined, and no one's allowed to sit in anyone else's place, and no one's allowed to enter sports again without a ticket. These are also prohibited at the moment, but with this new arrangement, these bans will begin to be enforced. Other than that, there are some items that are forbidden to be brought into the field, moved, placed around the stadium, and not allowed into the stadium. It is already in Law 6136, and the Penal Code 6136, that the move, possession of firearms or explosives is a crime. Crimes are ruled by increasing, but other than that, the sharpest tools we complain about most are banned from entering stadiums, including a knife that is specifically called a spinning knife, with sharp, piercing, bruising, crushing tools, and explosive materials, and significant punishments are brought to those who do not comply with this ban. In addition, there is even more severe punishment for those who bring these substances into the sport and provide them to others. Other than that, the stadiums, the opposite fans, referees, football players, or other people we've encountered the most have been severely insulted. There are, of course, crimes in our penal code, but there are those who publicly insult them, so there are certain verbs that are clearly understood by the audience, the audience, the audience, and the people who heard it as an insult, but there's nothing to it, and no one was doing anything at that time. And that was an important punishment in this law, and at the end of all of these sentences, they were banned from going to sporting events. In addition, there were provisions in the sports competitions on how to keep private security guards and official officials under what circumstances. Other than that, there's an adjustment to the fix and incentive bonus we're talking about today. As you all know, in order to influence the outcome of a sporting event, a person who provides gains or benefits to another person is being punished for fraud. The person who took advantage of it is also being punished as a partner in this crime. In order for this crime to take place, the two parties don't have to pay each other, and the competition doesn't have to be played that way. If the parties agreed to fix the deal, the stated interest, whether it was a win-win, whether it was a contest, whether it was a contest, or whether it was a contest in accordance with the intended agreement, would be considered a crime, even if it was a fixed deal. Thus, the sentence is hereby executed. However, if a party offers a fix, if the other party does not accept it, it is considered to be an attempted crime, and there is a penalty for the attempt. So, where did we come from, this offer? Now, the punishment that everyone thinks and faces in the current Law is high above and below, so a sentence from five to twelve years has been considered a high sentence for this verb, an unfair punishment. So...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0105par0044	It's not just a fix, it's another fine.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0104par0045	There's an incentive bonus.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0105par0046	The punishments for the audience are high.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0104par0047	I'll tell them, of course. I'll explain what we did for them. Now, the punishment for the incentive bonus and the fixer-upper is in terms of the punishment, which has already been considered half the incentive bonus. This law was compared to a bribery charge when it was set up. In fact, these punishments were much higher in the drafting of the Federation's law, which the officials of the Football Federation and Youth and Sports General Directorate had prepared together. I mean, maybe in those days, the events that happened in some games, I mean, in a way that made the public very uncomfortable, were perhaps much higher. But then we got involved in the final form of this bill, even during these law talks, and we brought the punishment to this point, but despite that, it was a high sentence. The real reason the punishment was like this was because this crime was a crime similar to a bribery charge. The lower limit for the price of bribery in our penal code begins in four years. There are two people on the bribery charge, sometimes there are three, and sometimes there may not be one victim, but there's been an illegal job between two people. What's in here? Who are the parties here, who are the ones who are getting hurt by this fix-up deal? There's another football club, managers, football players, there's thousands, tens of thousands of fans of this club, there's Toto players playing, Iddaa, there's people betting. They've all been victimized, damaged. That is why the punishment for this crime is higher, because the victims of this crime are far greater than the injured. But apparently in public or in the political party groups and in the football community, it's considered abnormal to have so many punishments; it could be, I'm not saying anything to him. It may have been too much while this provision of punishment was being made by us, of course I appreciate that. Thus, the sentence was changed from five to twelve years, from one year to three years. What else was done? Of course, there's a perception in the public that right now, we want him not to have it, too: five years of punishment in one year, it could be as if it were an amnesty. There may be those who think they can get out of prison right away, they can get a fine, they can get a ticket. But there's a balance that's been set up here to eliminate this perception. Therefore, there is no way to reverse the declaration of the sentence, translate it into alternative sanctions, and convert it into money, or postpone it. Therefore, those who are convicted of this crime will in fact serve two-thirds of the prison sentence, then they will be released, the prisoners. In addition, when these crimes are committed consecutively, they are tied to chain crime in Article 43 of the Penal Code, and more than one crime will be considered a single crime, but the punishment will be increased from one quarter to three percent. In addition, there is another increase in the law, but it has already been expanded, while only the managers of the sports club are subject to it, where the technical committee of clubs, managers or representatives are included, and if this crime is committed, the punishment will also be increased by half as well. Thus, he will come to a balanced place. If it was committed by a criminal organization aimed at committing a crime for profit, the punishment would be increased by half again, and if it was done to influence allegations and betting events, the punishment would be increased by half.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0106par0054	How are you going to determine that?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0104par0055	So when we get into it a little bit, it's not that simplified and yet an important punishment remains for those who commit it. Now, one more thing I want to say here. This Law, which is now in effect, is one of the best laws laid out in Europe today, but we have not yet seen it apply. If we see this in practice, it's particularly about preventing violence in sports. Mr. Longwalk just said something, and I'd like to answer it.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0107par0058	It's not the answer, I said it to help you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0104par0059	Other punishments were arranged in parallel with the sentence of the prisoner in this Law. Punishments on the basis of five to 12 years of punishment were also set in line with those who did not comply with the other violence and preconceived bans. But now that the punishment has come down, there has been a reduced sentence in parallel to this, whether or not other substances. I mean, you could say he's out of balance right now, too, no matter how much he wants a reduced sentence. And since it's been this high before, it's been parallel to it, so...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0107par0060	I didn't mean it as a criticism. I meant it as a reminder.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0104par0061	And those fines were considered high whether they wanted to or not because they were parallel to it. Now that we've brought the punishment down, others have been taken down a bit and some of the prison sentences have been reduced to criminal fines, while some of them have been kept as prison sentences. There's been a change in the jurisdiction of the courts, he's been discharged from the criminal court, and he's been served by the criminal court. In this case, prosecutors and courts, who have been charged with investigating these crimes, have also begun to work as special-designed residency courts by the Judges and Prosecutors' Supreme Council on the proposal of the Ministry of Justice. The purpose of these crimes was to be investigated and prosecuted very quickly and not to be delayed. The Council of Europe has found that some of the European Council member states currently do not have sufficient laws to prevent violence in sports, and some are lacking, and has decided that this law in Turkey should be shown as a precedent law for other countries during a meeting of the Council of Europe in March. And I don't think we should keep that out of sight. With such thoughts, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0108par0066	Thank you, Mr. Villageman. Muammar Güler, Mardin MP. Here you go, Mr. Guler.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0109par0070	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the bill of 80 rows. I salute your high council. Mr. President, the topic of prevention of violence and disorder in sports has been the most controversial subject in recent years and has been the focus of public opinion, especially sports public opinion. The increasing increase in violence in these sports activities forced the administration to regulate it with a law, and you all know that on 28 April 2004, the Law on Violence and Disorganisation was enforced in Sports Competition 5149. I served as İstanbul Governor at a time when this Law was implemented the most practical, and I would like to say that the most important issue of Istanbul the week I first started was the arrangement for which measures would be taken in the next match because of the audiences who were taken out of the field in the meeting of our two major clubs. He received a great deal of attention, and it was seen by the measures taken there that he needed a law. Now, as noted in the report, the law has been undermining extensive examinations and comparative legal data. There have also been many flaws in the practices related to these measures. Of course, it is not possible to understand how a law can produce productive results and results without an application. I've got friends who run things here, sports executives. In particular, I say this very immediately, we have expressed this, and there have been some conflicts between us, even with sports executives, and even with senior executives, so why don't the sports security boards work hard enough or act boldly? But look, the issue of pro-legation in Law 5149, including sports directors, even athletes, is that the issue of sports representatives at 5149, from competitions, the collection of fines, money fines, especially the information and statements to the press, and sports executives, including managers and sports directors, has said that there is a right to be a right to be a special disciplinary board of law enforcement, especially if it's relevant to the authorities. With the RTÜK, with the Football Federation of Turkey, we said that such an application was not possible, that only a sports safety board would decide, with separate legal boards, separate specialists, but in the end, we couldn't convince anyone, let alone make such decisions, we couldn't even apply it to the fans. You're giving me a punishment for the fans. You say, "Don't engage." Who's going to control it? Do you have an eye camera? No. Still, Mr. Minister, if I have time in my speech, I'm going to say that it is necessary for both the Football Federation and the Ministry of Youth and Sports to make arrangements for the zoom camera system to tighten control in the competitions, to make it serious, or else you can't do that. In addition, tickets are required in the online environment. It's imperative that we find out who's sitting where. They must not be on their feet. There are other things like this. Look, it's interesting...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0110par0074	Governor, for example, you're applying these to us when you're walking, when you're making a statement to the press.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0109par0075	If you'll excuse us, Mr. Sakik, we'll have plenty of time if you'll excuse us.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0111par0076	Send half our cameras to the games, Governor.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0109par0077	Yes, sir. Now, these measures must be taken effectively. Look, it's been a long time since we brought up whether the fans came to the games or not. We regret to see that the four major sports clubs today had to merge with the Football Federation at the point where their fans didn't come to the game. There are some things about it that are right, and there are some things about it that are unethical. It's basically bringing people to the games that's important, but I'm afraid the fans haven't shown the proper sensitivity. You have to put that aside. My dear friends, Mr. President, it's one of the most important aspects of this bill to me now that there are sentences that cannot be postponed, because it's an important arrangement that cannot be granted alternative punishments, not to be encouraged at the very least, that's one of the best parts of the bill. Also, it is a very important provision, my dear friends, that he be removed from the administration in the form of a criminal conviction. In my opinion, one of the most important aspects of this law is this arrangement. And, of course, my dear friends, to me, the most important issue is that the Turkish Football Federation, the sports fellowship boards, the autonomous boards, are more important to use their powers than the fines, because the rules to be dropped from competitions or leagues are also important to keep hidden here. Now, in public, of course, this offer has always been brought up in connection with a case being carried out in consideration. Under the pressure of this, maybe we all have friends who feel this disease. Now, my dear friends, I personally don't see this as relevant to this case. I'm a fan of a club. To be honest, I'm a congressman at the Fenerbahçe Club. You all have certain manners. I don't see it as a case.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0112par0082	Don't let God give you any more grief.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0113par0083	Mr. Governor, the young man doesn't hire a colored suit.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0109par0084	You've just told me that you're not interested in sports, Mr. Commander, and let's discuss it as well, but if you'd like, I'll try to make you Fenerbahçe from now on. Now, my dear friends, the last operation has indeed been a nationalized sport for the public. So before this operation, after this operation, it's really become very important for public sensibilities, for their sensitivities. Now, we, all of you, have to deal with sports clubs in your provinces, your counties, whether they want to or not. The qualities of sports executives are also very important. And it's very important that people who are qualified come to sports clubs. A punishment that would frighten them, intimidate them, intimidate them, and prevent them from doing their duty was not appropriate for me. We're in the middle of a deposition. The exposition is that the severe punishments have arrived. Tephritis is like a law enforcement environment that can never be applied. I believe what's between these two would be more useful to prevent violence and disorder in sports from happening. Now, I think that's basically more than punishment, my dear friends. For sports executives, these results, such as discipline or dropouts for sports clubs, are really going to affect a lot of people in terms of prestige. For clubs, it's not appropriate for their sports backgrounds, their missions, and it's especially important in the financial sense. I mean, I think the effects on this can be even more effective than punishment. Now, there is a known saying. You know, a plague is a great deal of advice. Now, after this operation, there was such a sensitivity to the public that I thought -- I mean, there's another saying, there's a lot of prayer with this ablution. There's a saying that after this operation, there's a lot of attention in public, and after this, there's a lot of attention in sports managers, and after that, I don't really think there's a climate of deterrentism for everyone, and I don't see it's really happening in this operation. Of course, in the following applications... we'll see how Law 6222 will be enforced. Let's see, we've made the most decisions, sanctions in Istanbul, but when we look at the results of them, we've seen that no consequences, no deterrents, no deterrents, no deterrents, no reforms. Hopefully, from now on, both measures will be possible to prevent violence and disorder in sports, and as a natural result of this, events such as a fix, such as incentive bonus, will be prevented. I think the proposal will serve this purpose in the form of law, and I also want to say that violence and disorder in sports have a significant impact on irregularities in our other areas, because the level of education and sports is consistent with each other, of course. In this sense, I hope this offer will allow violence and disorder to develop in a more positive way, to be repaired. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If this proposal is passed, I wish you well, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0114par0094	Thank you, Mr. Guler.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0115par0095	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0114par0096	Here you are, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0115par0097	Mr. President teased me by calling me Craftstone.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0116par0098	It does not count as teasing to say "Basikstone."
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0114par0099	Your word has been made, Mr. Commander, thank you. Ramadan Can, Kırıkkale MP. Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0117par0103	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the Law Proposal for Anti-violence and Disarray in Sports 80 rows. I hereby salute your delegation. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, Vice President of the Republican People's Party, Mr. Emine Gültur Tarhan, Deputy Chairman of the National Movement Party, Mr. Mehmet Şandir and Deputy Chairman of the Peace and Democracy Party, Mr. Hasip Kaplan. The Deputy Chairman of the Peace and Democracy Party has withdrawn his offer by coming to the Justice Commission.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0118par0105	His signature...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0117par0106	He must have withdrawn his signature. In view of the Justice Commission yesterday, this proposal was reorganised in terms of the general principles of criminal law and brought down to the General Assembly today. Mr. President, high-profile lawmakers, preventing violence and disorder in sports is a necessary issue, a matter that must be addressed by marriage. With Law 5149, there is a law on the prevention of violence and disorder in sports, it has been established that this Law is inadequate in terms of international legislation, that prevention of violence in sports is not possible with this Law, and Law 6222 has been established. Act 6222 was adopted on March 3, 2011. A question will certainly be asked: "What are the problems of this Law, and what are the problems of its practice, whether it solves these problems or not? Of course, a question will be asked, "Why is this law being changed? " The answer to this question is: The lawmaker -- you know -- according to the 2nd, 7th, and 38th Article of the Constitution, at any time, has the authority to determine whether any action, any act, will be a crime, if it constitutes a crime, what kind of punishment is to be given, and it is an absolute authority that cannot be transferred. So the issue of crime is one of the absolute powers of the House, which cannot be carried out under the law. However, if there is a problem with the application, the lawmaker will prepare the law accordingly by trying to predict it, but there may be difficulties before it can be implemented. The atmosphere, violence, violence in sports on the day of the draft of this law, affected our lawmakers, and the proportion of punishment in terms of crime and punishment, the violation of the principle of justice in punishment, the penalty for the penalty, has been kidnapped. The punishment will be severe, and the punishment will be severe. These need to be rearranged. In that sense, the legislator should rearrange it. At this point, the law proposal has been assessed, but there are also measures to prevent violence in sports. This is the case: Even if the penalty for fraud has been reduced in Law 6222, the institution has been maintained here that this sentence cannot be postponed, that it cannot be reduced to fines, and that the declaration of judgment will not be left behind. When this is preserved, the sentence of the person sentenced to one day of this substance will be executed. Mr. President, good lawmakers, one of the general principles of criminal law is the provision of criminal justice. The priority for the justice of punishment is practice. Of course, the legislator will draft the text of the law, but the enforcers have to do it fairly. Leaving everything in the order of the legislator will not solve the problems in implementing the lawmaker's regulations. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the Justice Commission has also made arrangements with the motion given by the group's representatives in jointly. One of these regulations was that the penalty for chain crime, given by our congressman in the Justice Commission, increased from half to twice as much in the current text. The motion has been made to refer from the general principles of criminal law to Article 43, and to increase the charge of Article 43 in chain crime from one to three hundred and four. Again, a motion has been submitted to the Justice Commission, which has also been discussed by the Justice Commission, which has been said by the Justice Commission: it cannot be foreseen that legislation, execution, judicial legislation should make an administrative action decision. Although there have been exceptions, the prosecutor's request could be issued by the judge in the process of investigating the motion given here by a balance element, as well as by the prosecutor's case. When we consider the general principles of criminal law, the sentence must be finalized. The motion also prevents the transition from the general rule to the private, which has been adopted by Article 53 of the penal code. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers are not entirely in the mood to appreciate any action at any time as to whether it is a crime or not. The general principles of the relevant Constitution and criminal law and the universal rule of law are bound by the lawmaker. The legislator must pay attention to the principle of justice in crime and punishment as he passes the law. First of all, it's important for the implementation of the rules that we've established in sports about preventing violence and disorder, but I think the most important thing is to take preventive measures. My governor has been working on this as we speak. I think if we increase preventive measures and reduce the tendency of people to commit crimes in terms of preventive measures, there won't be any need for those laws. Mr. President, good lawmakers, it's important to prevent violence and disorder in sports, and that law must be deterrent. But there is a clause that we see that, at the point of navigation and security in sports, there is clearly injustice when we compare criminal law and criminal principles to other principles that will face a verb in terms of watching sports and providing security. Of course, we don't want to give anyone any special privileges here. These will, of course, be spoken, but the more inappropriate it is to grant concessions to others, the more inappropriate it is to violate certain criminal law values in order to prevent violence and disorder in sports. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I hope the offer will be legalized. Hopefully, there will be a law in our society that will prevent spores and violent irregularities. Hopefully, we won't meet such a code of law again in a short time, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0119par0119	Thank you, Mr. Can. Now, according to Articles 81 and 60 of the Civil Code, the question-answer will be carried out for 20 minutes. Mr. Aydın, Mr. Türkoğlu, Mr. Sakık, Mr. Önder, Mr. Şandir, Mr. Erdoğan, Mr. Halaçoğlu and Mr. Özensoy have entered the system. I'll give you a minute each. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0120par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, despite numerous allegations of fraud and bribery in the report of the Parliament's research commission, founded on allegations of violence, bribery and unjust competition, on June 10, 2005, and while the Justice and Development Party, which governs the country alone at this time, is now in need of changes in Law 6222, which passed in 31/3/2011. Why was this change needed? Second: In spite of such allegations, why was such a fraud investigation or arrest not taken place for six years before the June 12th elections, but in the last two or three months, these rapid events occurred? Do you have a clear conscience? Secondly...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0121par0129	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0122par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. I think we have a problem with making laws. The law that we're thinking about changing today has only been in effect for eight months, and because of its first application, we have to make major changes. I think we made a mistake today, too. For example, I'm asking Mr. Secretary, right now, some sportsmen who are believed to have been framed for the alleged fraud of football players continue to be imprisoned in prison. The Football Federation, on the one hand, is bringing in the play-off system by changing status. If a team that's guaranteed to stay in the Play-off system goes out on the field with backup players in the last few weeks, and some clubs take advantage of it, score points, or someone at a game of chance makes some kind of surprise money, won't that be considered as part of the fix? So I'm thinking we're still making mistakes. I'd appreciate it if Mr. Secretary could fill me in on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0123par0134	Thank you. Dear Sakek...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0124par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister: This is the law of those who have laws, the law of those who have thick backs. Look, there are 645 arrested journalists, writers in two hundred and twenty-two countries in the world, 70 of them in our country. While our country faces such a disgrace, they are condemned by the Anti-Terror Law, and we are number one in the world. The Minister is a lawyer. Now people are inside because they've expressed their thoughts, and we're here today trying to exonerate those who are cheating. Is that a conscience or not? That's what I want to ask you. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0125par0139	Thank you. Mr. Commander...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0126par0141	Now, I'm going to quote you, and then I'll tell you who it's from. They brought in the bill before this one, beg for help. Still, let's see what they're made of, but it doesn't suit our sense of lawmaking. Not in summer, but in the sense of the law against the individual, which is not possible. The Prime Minister said so. Again, another quote: I personally find it not positive that at the time of investigation, the demands of changing this law -- I underline it. The idea that we can't handle this law shows the weakness of club managers. Mr. Minister's is a little more embarrassed: it is not an offer made by the government, it is a bill of law. Now I'm asking the Minister: What's changed? In short, two words. What's changed? The ink isn't dry yet, these statements. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0127par0146	What are they saying behind closed doors?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0128par0147	Thank you. Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0129par0149	Thank you. Mr. President, I'll change the mood.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0128par0151	Go on, go on, please.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0129par0152	After forty years, the Mediterranean Games will organise our country this year, in 2013, and my science will be organised in Mersin. Of course, I'm proud of it, I'm glad of it. But I have a concern, as we are late in building facilities. What measures have you taken in this regard? Can you fill me in on that? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0128par0154	Thank you. Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0130par0156	Mr. President, thank you. Now, we are discussing the third law on the prevention of violence, violence in sports during the AKP ruling period. Now, without discussing these bills enough, without having enough talks with the parties, we bring them to the Capitol agenda in a hurry, and then we change them once every six months. Will the bill that we're talking about solve the problems of the sports community? Or are we going to drop our jobs in a few months and renegotiate this bill? I'd like to ask the Minister.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0128par0158	Thank you. Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0131par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. The public believes that this law is the law of the rescue of President St. Yıldırım. Isn't it really necessary to assess the adoption of this law at a time when the state of detention is in progress? I'd like the Minister to answer that. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0132par0163	Thank you. Mr. Özensoy...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0133par0165	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, the second stadium project has begun in Bursa. What do you intend to do with the existing stadium? When Prime Minister Bursa arrived, he said that a 350 million-dollar project, as if it were good news, would be contributed to 50 million from the central government. Mr. Metropolitan Mayor and Mr. Arinc also made statements in their speech that the winners of the scholarship would have to serve him, which sometimes turns out to be a threat. In these years, it is a city that contributes to 7.5-8 billion central governments, and a city that gives more budgets, and a city that is seriously contributing to investments from the central government. So do you consider any measures or contributions to the construction of the stadium? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0134par0170	Thank you. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0135par0172	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Özensoy, since our Fellow Minister has expressed his views on the stadium, I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State in a manner that I would like to know how you feel about this law, which has been hostile to our Bursaspor, and Beşiktaş, since the Law on the Law on Change in the Law has been passed to prevent the violence and irregularity of sports. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0136par0175	Thank you. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0137par0177	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, let our country be a state of law today, and it's turning into a state of police by going below the level of law. Today, the leaders of all institutions in the country, the world of the academy, the press, the companies, civil society boards, politicians, judges and citizens, are extremely anxious and complaining about the listening of telephone and internet communications and intentional tax audits. Ergenekon, Balyoz, KCK, often discussed and discussed in public opinion during the fraud investigations and prosecutions of football, on the one hand, the right to defend the case, as well as, as you know, the right to secrecy in the case, is restricted, while on the other side, the media displays this information in sheets. I wonder if your government is considering reviewing the arrest warrants he's taken on this law today, and reviewing the detention times of these cases.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0136par0178	Thank you. Last question, Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0138par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. The proposal we have discussed is that the punishment, as our friends have just explained, will not be converted into optional sanctions, and will not be subject to a postponement of the sentence, as determined by Article 231. This is a provision that violates the principle of equality of the Constitution. He can return there if applied to the Constitutional Court on this matter. Now, what did they have in mind when they made such an arrangement contrary to the principle of equality? And I think the fines have been reduced too much. I feel that punishments should be left at a normal level, but others should not be treated against the principle of equality. I'm asking the minister for an opinion on this.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0139par0183	Thank you. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0140par0185	Mr. Secretary, there's a distinction between all the viewers who watch football closely, as all the audiences know, in Turkey, there's a caste system, but especially in football, so they're equal and there's a difference. As a scholarship MP, we had the chance to watch this closely. For example, when it comes to police violence in football, we find that the people who are most heavily affected by this intervention are the ones who are always the Bursaspor fans. In the same way, when it came to the broadcasts of our European league games, we saw that the UEFA European league match was not broadcast by TRT. Today, our Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Bulent Arinc, has been gracious enough to answer a written question motion I've already submitted to him. I was here critical of the application of TRT. I was asking for the reason. Unfortunately, an answer came:.... with the broadcast of Bursaspor's match......
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0139par0188	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, the microphone is yours.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0141par0190	Mr. President, thank you. The question of Mr. Light is why this amendment is needed. As a matter of fact, we're not discussing a government bill here; it's basically the issue between questions. It is a proposed law and under it are the signatures of four of our four political parties, including the group of members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, a group of vice presidents. Even if Mr. Kaplan had withdrawn his signature in the Commission, it is possible that if he hadn't already submitted that signature under this text in the first place, this bill would not have been on the agenda of the Justice Commission, and other parties would have hesitated, and this bill would not have been discussed in the Justice Commission, nor would it have been downloaded with the General Assembly.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0142par0192	It's not too late.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0141par0193	Thus, the proposal of the law is based on the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Here, as a government, there's not a lot of statements that we can say at the point of need for this change. There's another question from Mr. Light again at the point why an investigation wasn't conducted months before the election. Mr. Light, this investigation is an investigation under Law 6222, which has already been launched under the law in accordance with new provisions. You'll appreciate that a law that comes out here will be published in the official paper, put into effect, recognized by prosecutors, judges, and after understanding, the execution phase will be initiated. Of course, post-election is a very natural and legal process. Mr. Türkoglu has a question about the play-off system. Is the outcome of the players who are subject to the investigation within the Playoff system relevant to the outcome? Yes, it is possible that it will be effective, but you can appreciate that it is a matter of the judicial authorities; it is a matter of one. Two, playing-off is not a matter of political initiative behind it. Play-off, today, there's a topic that continues to be debated within the Federation and in the Clubs Association, countries that apply, countries that give up after implementation. What are the practical results in Turkey? How long will it last or become a permanent system? At this point, there's no way to know. Mr. Sakık, the law is being changed for those who are left behind. There has been a criticism in the form of the law. If there is such a will, it is again the common will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Its acceptance is a matter in the care of the General Assembly. Turkey's Grand National Assembly has its own agenda. There's no way that we can use any initiative as an executive body on this agenda. But in Turkey, criticism is not only from the opposition, but also from our side from time to time. How are such issues evaluated, and within what framework can they be converted into text? This, of course, is a matter of time's discretion. Mr. Leader had certain quotes; he asked a question by means of economics. In response to quotes from me, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Arinc, what we're going to say is that we didn't send a amendment here as a government bill.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0143par0199	Mr. Secretary, don't you know anything about this?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0141par0200	I have to say the same thing again. A proposal of law has come to the attention of the will of the High Parliament. They're about to vote. Appreciation will be entirely appreciated by the General Assembly. But here's what we need to see, as this law is first established - Deputy Commissioner Hakk Bey is here; Mr. Hakkın knows. Our Minister of Justice hasn't changed, Mr. Sadullah Ergin is one of those who object to the first form of law. As members of the group, as acting Group President at the time, we, again, have not been able to differentiate their will at this point, despite our insistence to the Federation officials at that time, that the provisions brought by the current Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ were not in line with international norms and the EU framework. If there's a chance for a normality now, I think it's a good idea to stand by it. Mr. Mehmet Shandir has a question about Mersin. Mr. Shandır, the Mediterranean Games were given to Athens, the capital of Greece, in 2007, despite the candidacy of Mersin, as you know. After Greece announced to the Committee of Mediterranean Games that it could not carry out the Mediterranean Games due to its economic crisis and debt to European banks, the Mediterranean Games were transferred to Turkey in February 2011, with four years delayed. The election was decided, we went to the election. The government was established, the vote of confidence, and immediately the projects were designed. Since I know your approach to Mersin, I'll give you the good news immediately. The most important and most time-consuming project is the stadium project for Mersin, which was held yesterday. Again, the Olympic village, with the capacity of 3,500 students to be built within the Ministry of Loans and Homes, is under way in the tender process. However, the 6,500-seat sports hall, the 3,000-capable open tennis court, the 3,000-capacity central tennis court, and the 8 open courts, the 2 closed courts, the 1,000-seat Olympic swimming pool, the 1,000-seat sitting-capable training gym, shooting and trap-skit facilities, however, have come to the stage of completion of the tender processes related to restoration of the athletic field and stadium and also the 12-piece old sports facility to be restored. I'm sharing these with you. Indeed, here, both our ministry and our capital savings and our construction sector are facing a serious test because our performance in Mersin would also be one of our nation's hundred whites and most important leverages at the point of the 2020 Istanbul Olympics nomination. We don't have a delay, I hope we don't end up embarrassed. Mr. Erdogan's law was brought to Parliament's agenda in a hurry. Is that the right attitude? I assume by referring to the change, this question has been submitted to our side. There's a text that's been assigned to us by the presidents or presidents of the Super Toto, Super League, before which we want to be replaced, wet-signed by the elected vice presidents of the 18 clubs. This text is in my bag. Other than that, they came around four groups, they shared, they talked, they argued. So I didn't think it was too hasty. Mr. Halaçoglu's question is, can this law be regarded as the law of the rescue of St. Yıldırım? Mr. Halaçoglu, I'm not going to hesitate at all about his good intentions, I'm absolutely convinced that he's asking nicely, but I'd like to commend myself and the members of the Justice Commission and the very honorable members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for the idea and the thought of making a law to save any person. Aziz Thunderbolt, I have never seen, met, met, or met in person in my entire life. Thus, we did not have a personal arrangement.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0144par0206	He's in public.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0141par0207	Yes, there may be such a perception in public, but it's due to lack of information, I just did. Super Toto Super League, including Galatasaray, Beşiktaş, Tripoli, Bursaspor, Gaziantep, Kayserispor, Samsunspor, the president or vice president of 18 clubs in the Sports Toto Super League, have submitted to us the request for a wet signature on the change of this law, which I would like to report to you. Mr. Özensoy has questions about what will be the fate of the Bursa stadium and whether the government is able to benefit enough from the central investment performance. Mr. Özensoy has received very special services from double hospital projects, public housing and urban transformations to sports investments.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0145par0210	You know, Mr. Secretary, there is no such thing.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0141par0211	We can all voice together the idea that they deserve more because of their overall contribution to the Turkish economy, and hopefully we can work together to do more.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0145par0212	What are we gonna do about the stadium, the stadium?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0141par0213	But I think it would be unfair of him to claim that he had neglected us during the AK PARTY administrations.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0145par0214	Let me give you the numbers, Mr. Secretary. We're coming to 2 percent, we're taking 2 percent of what we're giving.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0141par0215	Mr. Irony has a question. Does this law contribute to the removal of the Beşiktaş-Bursa feud? I also think that this law could be a serious contribution to resolving conflicts between Beşiktaş and Bursaspor, as it generally contributes to the eradication of violence and disorder in sports. I've always said that in national matters, in matters that concern our entire nation, Fenerbahçeli, Tripolian, Galatasarayan, Beşiktaş, or -- for emphasis on hostility -- Beşiktaş's departure, separation, different thinking, different movement -- is a national issue, and it's a matter of image. From the outside, it's a matter of view of our country's total quality management. I think the same approach could be in the fans' hands. The administrations will be more careful, the Federation will be more careful, the leaders of the fan groups, with a more careful and careful performance, hopefully they will contribute to the establishment of this discipline. I have left out the issue of the stadium about the scholarship, so let me put it to you in one sentence. As the Ministry of Youth and Sports, we, as well as the Ministry of Youth and Sports, would like to see a political decision first appear in the direction of the Fellowship, as the debate continues on the outcome of the stadium. I think we can make the most of this, and according to the needs of Bursa. Mr. President, I'm trying to make a quick end of your tolerance in a minute or two, thank you. There's a question from Mr. Havutça, can a bill that regulates the period of arrest come to the government's agenda? I'm here as Minister of Youth and Sports, and if I go into the context of this, I'll be occupying the Minister of Justice's territory. I believe this question may be submitted to Mr. Sadullah Ergin on other grounds of the law. I think Mr. Yilmaz has been brought down a lot. He has had a criticism. I'd like to thank Mr. Rights Villageman here in particular as acting chair of the Justice Commission. Because the practice of punishment has really contributed to the formation of this law as a solid name. But we, as lawmakers alone, have not been involved in a process of changing our own legal knowledge, which is based on our own knowledge of the law. Members of the Justice Commission who participated in the work from all four parties were well aware yesterday, and we invited the criminal lawyers, who contributed to the first regulation of this law, to the Commission, and we applied to their views. But let there be no violation of the Constitution, no violation of the Turkish Penal Code and criminal justice system, and with the care of the international norms, we have transformed this arrangement into this form. I believe it's become normal, but it's still in the discretion of the House and the public that the sentences are reduced to a lot. The last question, Mr. Erdemir, is the police acting differently to the Bursaspor fans? Does TRT differ from other teams in the broadcasts of the games? I don't think that the right thing to do is to take on a community that can be treated equally in accordance with the conduct of both the police and the TRT institution. No matter where it is in Turkey, not according to the size of cities or the size of the population, but by the categories of teams, clubs, broadcasters and broadcasters are set. As the second team to carry the championship cup out of Istanbul after Tripolispor had actually achieved a special and important success in Turkey. I never felt that the people of Bursaspor, and the people of Bursa, had been subjected to such injustice. As far as the police are concerned, dear friends, I don't think that the police, anywhere in Turkey, have any idea or position to apply laws or powers differently, or use them differently. And I don't think they're capable of special and abusive treatments, especially because they're a Bursaspor fan. And I don't want that to happen.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0146par0221	There's a Beşiktaş game last semester, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0141par0222	Mr. Muammar Güler was the first governor I knew when I first became a congressman in 2002, because he was Governor of Samsun. He pointed out that there are certain difficulties with the administration's practices here. That's why governors and police chiefs don't want to see administrative punishments in such laws because there are many difficulties in implementing them.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0147par0223	Mr. Secretary, please collect your words.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0141par0224	My last word, Mr. President. The practitioners have challenges, too, but we all need to guide our supporters and the leaders of the fans in the right direction, as leaders of politics. I want to thank you all for the questions and for any contributions to law enforcement.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0148par0227	Thank you. The question-answer process is complete. So the negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. SPOR CONTINUES VICTIMS OF VICTIM AND SERVITY THE COUNCIL REPLICATION OF CHANGE MADDE 1-31/3/2011's article No. 6222's Article 11 of the 11th Amendment to the prevention of Violence and Disorganisation in Sports has been changed from five to twelve years, from one year to three years, from the fourth joke (b) in the following way, with the following jokes added to the article. ίb) By the president or members of the general board or board of directors, technical or administrative executives and managers of clubs and athletes who operate in the field of sports or in the Federation or sports clubs, In connection with the crimes involved in this clause, the decision cannot be made to reverse the release of the sentence under Article 231 of Penal Code 5271, dated 4/12/2004; the prison sentence cannot be changed into alternative sanctions and cannot be postponed. (10) If the crimes described in this article are committed at different times under the execution of a criminal verdict, the punishment for the most severe sentence will be increased from one quarter to three-quarter, to one sentence. (11) If the person is sentenced to punishment for the crimes described in this clause, he shall also be prohibited from serving in the management and control bodies of sports clubs, federations, and persons operating in sports activities within the scope of Article 53 of the Turkish Penal Code. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Omar Süha Aldan, Mügla MP. Here you go, Mr. Aldan.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0149par0241	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I would like to submit my opinion on the 1st amendment to Act 6222. Now, in fact, this amendment is all about a reduced sentence. Law 6122 also carries provisions that require many changes. First of all, there was no special arrangement for the wager. There's a discrepancy in the regulation of the initiative. I wouldn't be surprised if, in many ways, there were changes to this law. My dear friends, why is it necessary to make a joint proposal regarding this law? The government has often made a habit of setting up the High Assembly through the bill, or by bypassing the High Assembly through the decrees of the law, but this is an offer we face today, and all four parties in the House have brought it up with their signatures. The basic arrangement in Article 1 contains three jokes. They've just focused on our friends, the fact that punishments are not postponed, they're not turned into sanctions, and they haven't decided to drop the verdict. The second element is an arrangement that has been corrected in the Commission and has been harmonised with chain crime in Article 43 of the Turkish Penal Code, and the regulation in the final, eleventh joke is an arrangement on whether those who are tried in the form of a total conviction should not be taken as managers of sports activities. Well, we've come to this point, and I'm not going to dwell on it, and I'm going to make a point. We need to answer some questions. Why did we, the Republican People's Party, sign this arrangement? We need to answer that. Why was there a need for a reduced sentence? Besides, what was the operation known as a fix operation? Why was the election expected on June 12th, and immediately after the Federation election? Actually, I'm not going to go into too much detail because there's a trial going on, but there are some interesting things. One: In March, Act 6222 is in effect. The law ensues Article 135, Article 135 of the Law on Punishment, which states that the detection of communication begins, and the league ends, and the champions are determined and registered. So from what the press has said, as the Public Prosecutor said, the last five matches are known, so this investigation is complete. The teams are starting to transfer, they're transferring football players, they're spending millions of dollars, they're selling footballers, maybe, but there's no way this operation's going into detention. There's an election on June 12th, and there's no investigation after the election, but there's a Federation President's election. The Federation's administration is changing, so who's coming? Mehmet Ali Aydınlar. What identity is Mehmet Ali Aydınlar more known for? Being from Fenerbahçe. Three days after his arrival, the operation button is pressed and people are taken into custody. Now, if you want someone to drink a poison, you offer it to someone he trusts with poison. So this operation is being conducted in an environment where a Fenerbahçeli is head of the Federation. At the end of the day, it's really a change of backs, my dear friends. The football lobby has put a lot of pressure on it. But let's not deny that the Fenerbahçe fans in particular have taken over the team, and I am not in favor of that change before the ruling wing. Even though he said so, he eventually agreed to a joint offer. That's why they came here with a joint offer. In fact, it is important to mention that the way to prevent polygamism is not to increase punishments. Education, social tolerance, empathy, and creating a discreet society are actually the most important factors in preventing events. At this point, we, the Republican People's Party, call this legal arrangement yes. For what reasons? Let me make it clear to you that the punishment is indeed severe. There is a disproportionate proportion between crime and punishment. Second: This is an example of how the parties in parliament can get along when they need to. There are people under arrest, freedoms restricted, antidemocratic laws. With these laws, and when these laws come to the agenda, we call this arrangement yes to prove that reconciliation is a way of dealing. In addition, we call this legal arrangement "Yes" to show an example of how pressure groups can influence Parliament when needed. I wish our people in Turkey could be more sensitive about freedoms in Turkey than to give the opposition enough space and understanding, as well as to their admiration and standing behind sports clubs. I hope that this arrangement, this joint arrangement, will set an example for our society in this respect, and we call it yes, so that sports will not be made into a commercial meta. Against the intention of creating one type of human being, we call it yes. My dear friends, in fact, there's another reason why this kind of investigation has come to this. As a friend of yours who's done similar investigations over the years, there's a back-end to the investigations that affect society, so there's a bottom of a rug. The words I'm about to say are not related to the republic's prosecutors, law enforcement forces, or even the ruling wing that are involved in this investigation. I want to sing their praises. If social structure is intended to create changes in specific areas, a trigger will be carried out. There's a global dimension to this, so there's an international dimension to this fix operation. I'm going to complete my words by simply summing it up. Are you looking for a crime to be committed in Turkey? You'll find it anywhere. Almost all tenders are mixed with corruption; most football or sports comparisons are rigged; most of the time, mobilization initiatives are common in Turkey; abuse of office is common. There is such a phenomenon, and something triggers those law enforcement forces or prosecutors. The prosecutor or law enforcement figures that they have saved Turkey, that a certain part of the country's sector has been wiped out of the filth, so they can jump into this investigation. In fact, the basis of this sport's fix is that there is a Fenerbahçe Sports Club called the Fenerbahçe Republic of Fenerbahçe, whose supporters are extremely popular in Turkey, which is very important in the press, which attracts the most important attention, even in its name. If you investigate this Sports Club because of the fix, and you drop it in clusters, you destroy the First League, and the other teams no longer have room to breathe, their money power runs out, their payments from the broadcast are reduced, and the fallen team makes a huge effort to get out again. And that's where international funds come in, and that's where he buys the teams that we're connected to in this color. That's the point. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0150par0255	Thank you, Mr. Aldan. Ali Longırmak, MP of Aydın, has asked for a statement on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Articles. Here you go, Mr. Longhorn.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0151par0259	Mr. President, I've been promised a amendment to Law 622, and I salute you all. Dear friends, criticism is a culture. If I'm as opposed to slandering, slandering, and unjust accusations as I am, I'd like to share with you first that not learning from the right criticism does not lead the country to the right ground. I also think that we should consider the criticism I'm going to make here in terms of a rationality. This has become an AKP classic. And don't let me start by saying that I don't think that my criticism should go through the motions of this proposal of yours to make it look like an imposition. Dear friends, what's the AKP classic? In the past, if we read history correctly, if we learn the right lessons, we take the country to a useful ground. That's what history is for. And I describe the AKP classic as an Itihat Terakki classic. And Terakki may have wanted to rule the country with very good intentions as a system of thought, but what he did in the course of his actions, especially in the absence of law, the logic of the law, a powerful law technique, the country's truth and far from where the world is coming from, has driven the country into chaos, and until today, from foreign policy to economics, the law goes through the same rule until it reaches its own laws and practices in foreign policy. Please don't judge my words by turning mensub into taboos. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, how did this offer come about? In 2001, Parliament established a commission to investigate the problems of sports-resistant clubs for preventing violence. Without expecting this commission report, without learning from the commission's report on the same issue in 2005, in a hurry, in April 2011, by having the government and Parliament notarize this bill, despite my own opposition that day, despite my warnings, the law has passed, the bill has passed, the bill has passed, and today, I believe that it is a member of the law, a member of the industry, and that we are spending our time on it, with the opinion that it should be corrected. Dear lawmakers, the bill is not only about the issue of fraud; it is not only about incentives; it is a bill on preventing disorder in sports; it is a proposal or a creation for the proposal to correct the bill. Dear lawmakers, the conditions of violence and disorder in sports, our sports clubs, are absolutely necessary to make the rights and homework of all actors in the industry, from coaching to referee to teacher to audience, to increase our competitiveness in this industry, which is directly and indirectly defined as the fourth and fifth largest sector of economic size in the world, and all actors' rights and homework are guaranteed by regulations and regulations until they reach the club manager. If that doesn't happen, if the rules don't govern the system, then we won't be able to take a share and compete as Turkey from this sector that has become a direct and indirect fourth-largest sector in the world by increasing our competitiveness. It's not just a certain person's concern for the fix and the incentive, so it's not just the championships, it's not the best friends, it's not the lead competitions, it's the only way not to fall. It's done in other areas, and while I'm talking about all of this, I'd like to share with you, dear lawmakers, that once this law is in April, the league is out and will be finished in May, immediately followed, and believe me in the purity of the investigation, there are developments that will make their consciences bleed and govern. What are these developments? Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, there is talk of a chain of crime here, and the statement of the police also reflected in the press that day when a number of crimes took place on that day, and the evidence was captured. Now, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary, if the evidence has been captured, that investigation has not been launched, and if these criminals have continued to commit crimes, isn't it possible that the prosecutors have been in a position to help create new crimes at some point? Why weren't these arrested in the first place? If the crime continues, are there no new victims? Who will protect the rights of these new victims? Now, when we think about all of this, in terms of what the prosecutors call "criminal punishment," isn't there some sort of audit on this issue that I've asked our Minister of Justice in the past period? Shouldn't it be passed? When a crime is committed, if the D.A. isn't interfering with this crime in time, he's not investigating it in time, he's not suing it, isn't he? Doesn't it look like he's the one responsible for the crime? Don't law enforcement become the cause of the crime? So I believe that while we're bringing some definitions here, it's going to have to be rearranged. Imagine, when the fix was made, when you didn't take that manager, that footballer, that manager, that manager, and start interrogating him, when the new crime took place, who was responsible for the rise of the new victims and his criminal record? Therefore, I feel that all of this should be reconsidered. Dear lawmakers, while we do some legislature work on sports or other areas, we make the rules first as infrastructure; One: as mental infrastructure, as culture, as thought, did we create that infrastructure? Two: have we established the facility infrastructure? We can talk about a lot of security measures as security measures, but is it possible that if you can read the statistics electronic tickets, not knowing the address of the citizen, to build a safety net that can control human movements through his civic number, to do so in the area where the audience entered the facility, in the area where the audience entered the first door, even in which we went abroad, and even in order to edit it, until the security forces can detect the audience until they can read through the optics, but only until that evidence reaches a legal arrangement that is used in that field, and without establishing that logic? So, one, it's very important to build logic, two, to build our facilities in accordance with this logic and law. So I'd like to say that international competition will be unique in every area, from building logic to building a facility, to thinking that only when it's perfected will we be able to perform the right task. I declare that we are in favor of the arrangement. I feel that these injustices must be dealt with. It's not just what's in there today that's guilty. When Jesus Christ is condemned for a crime, he says: "Let him throw away the first stone that has not committed this sin in you. " And all those people throw down the stone in his hand, and no one can throw a stone at that woman. That's exactly what the sports world is about today. I feel that this should be a mile, and that all actors should take advantage of this generation until they reach the top leagues in this generation. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0152par0277	Thank you, Mr. Tallie. Sırrıyya Önder, İstanbul MP who wants to speak on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on Articles. Here you are, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0153par0280	Mr. President, distinguished members, I salute you all. I'd like to start with an expression from the era of Osmani. It's called saving the honor of my husband. It's a saying that a bath goes bad, and there's a lot of crime going on outside of being cleaned up, and they catch one of those who commit that crime at random and beat it up -- even if it's a bit sexist -- it's called saving the honor of the bath. By this law, it's all about saving the honor of the bath. Well, let's see, how's the honor of the bath house? Now, a fix is a state policy in this country, my friends. It began on September 12th, when Kenan Everina released an Ankara team to the First League. Because it's immoral. Why? That's why you stoop to someone else's work, to someone else's. It's a shame, and you can't ignore a rule that doesn't have a football term when the competition starts. Then, when the wrong is done to one of them, he shall be wronged, and he shall be wronged. Now, it started with this. I've just asked you to speak on the grounds of bullying. Actually, it was a fact from a governor. I've never seen the inside of a green field in my life, watched a game from beginning to end. There is no relationship with any team, including the national team, only the Besiktas Market group and Lucescu. That's my thing. Someone reads a lot of books, tells football players to read books, reminds Schopenhauer, which is why I like football players, because they put the market group ahead of dignity, or else I don't have a lot of manners. Now, let's move on. Just after that, the plot continued to be handled by the government. I'm telling you. Who's to say it's not a setup? I'm asking you to change your vote, I'm almost begging you, please listen carefully with this rikkatle. A group of people, a community of a city, who had been handcuffed to their languages, because they had made political, cultural demands, has taken on a major role as a bearer during a period of time, for some reason. I'm not taking sides, but I have a minimum universal law commitment, and I consider myself bound by a moral norm, so I follow myself, and it hurts our hearts for him. Because there's been a robbery. In order to keep the Diyarbakir cluster from falling into the upper leagues, the government had the Altay Sporting Players' room sprayed with agricultural medicine. I mean, look, what a state-of-the-art fixer-upper! It doesn't end here either. Turkey- Sweden national game... for God's sake, take two minutes to reflect, that's how many people have expressed themselves in television programs, said in government-issued, covered funds, thefts in Turkey-Sweden games, vices have been committed, known by all the authorities of the state and included. Now, what's wrong? We knew before, but we didn't know we knew, we pretended we didn't know. If we know now that we know, it can't be avoided with the old mouth. So, what's the solution? I'm the one who came out here, and I'm not saying it with any real political debate, and I'm the one who said that with all my honesty in my own group, we should sign off on this bill. I say this to all of you, I consider it immoral for us to be involved in such a business. Why? Change the rules while the game goes on again. So, now, put your hand on your conscience. Here, of course, allelelusul can be answered: no, it's not the law to save and such, it's not the law to save and such. I don't think so either. Do you know what this is? Aziz Yıldırım said: "If I burn, you will never know where this fire will stop. I offer this to your attention. If that's a fact, let's just let this fire go wherever it's going. It's good to be purified, friends, it's better to be burned clean. If that's a lie, let's let him convict whoever told him. Ask your consciences. We'll be out in public the day after tomorrow. How many of us, brother, did we do this in order to uphold the principles of universal law? Now, what's the solution? Here, that's the process that triggers it. I just read the Minister. The Prime Minister was really tough. He said, "Oh, what kind of a thing is that?" Mr. Bulent Arinc has objected to this. What happened... you can't even convince your own conscience about the objectiveness of this law, of this change without giving the public the answer to that, let alone convince others. What the... Guys, let's not get all routine on this. Our own conscience is a precious thing. I'd like to make a reference to the governor without taunting him. I wish he'd pick on me if he wanted a word as a tease. In 2004, the 17th article of the law included a 17th Amendment decree against preventing a fan of another club, race, religion, language, sectarian rhetoric, gender rhetoric. So, let's go back to the government. Yeah, I said I'm not a fan, but we're reading the paper. Anyone who goes through the archives will find it. I'm not calling your name from here. I don't mean to insult anyone or take responsibility for anyone. County executives, real estate guys, especially the honoraries of the team they're in the country, who doesn't know that? Look, read the paper. The referee raises the side umpire offside flag -- I hope I'm telling you the truth -- starts with the Commissioner's name down and gives a detailed description of where he's going to import that flag; I can't, I can't, I can't tell you from here. There were these. What about Armenians who don't get off their feet? Didn't they get kicked out of the bleachers in choirs? What law enforcement law applied the 17th article of the law in 2004? and prevents it from being shameful, sinful, and sinful? Let him go. I really did. I asked Mr. President for a word. This is what you do to the Arabs here, and you capture it from the Muslim people. They call it. Now that he has spoken, the following speaker quotes his prophet. Let him who is without sin cast the first stone. Now, we're doing these random, racist, disparaging, disparaging rhetorics here. This spreads to hundreds of thousands, and you can see it in the bleachers. There's a deer, and I'd like to mention this deer today: there's no politics in the mosque, in the barracks, in the sport. All three of them are very political. What it means here is that strange gurus don't do politics there. Your work, your persecution, the victim's not doing politics there. We called it the remains of the back. It's the size of a $1 billion industry. Here, it's the public, it's the audience, it's just to finance it. He's under arrest. We don't have to clean up three or five rich people here, and just look at their broadcast rights, and you appreciate their greatness, and we don't have to clean up the plague of everything they eat. Look, I've never been on the TK case; I've never mentioned any other arrests. I'm calling to Your Majesty, it's a shameful thing to do. And seriously, don't let the parties make a binding decision about it. Let him say yes to it, and let him say yes to it, and let him look into his child's eyes, and let him say, "I have been objective in this matter, my son." God be with you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0154par0300	Thank you, Mr. Commander. Recep Special, Isparta MP, asking for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0155par0303	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I have made a personal pledge on the first article of the proposal. Article 1 of the proposal has been changed from five to twelve years in prison from one year to three. In fact, in the change in March, when this law came out, in the circumstances of that day, there were a lot of afflicted punishments assigned to this place. Violence in the stadiums of that day was brought in as a means of oppression, and there was indeed a great deal of punishment written here in terms of crime and criminal justice. He is now being taken to a reasonable level, meaning crime and punishment justice. It's not a pardon, it's not an arrangement... Of course, some people will benefit from it. While the arrangements are being made, there may be those who will benefit from the ongoing cases, as well as those who are in prison. I'm saying there's no point in having an arrangement that's going to be on the agenda of the Assembly. Hopefully, with another sentence brought in here, with added jokes, with this reduced sentence, while balancing provisions, which can't be postponed, which can't be converted into money, have been tried to balance the public conscience in a sense of justice. I wish you all the best, sir, for this offer to our sports community, for our country.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0156par0307	Thank you, Mr. Special. Bart's MP Yilmaz Bronzeç has asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0157par0311	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 1st amendment to the Law on Violence and Disruption in Sports. On this occasion, I salute you all. The issue of violence and disorder in sports has disturbed the public for many years, including athletes, fans, sports activists, who have made demands to prevent violence in sports and to make legal arrangements for this issue, which has also been addressed during the period of EC PARTI. Since the prevention of irregularities and violence in the field of sports is beyond a simple issue of law enforcement, general punishments have failed to prevent violence and irregularities in sports, the results of this area have been adopted by Article 5149 to prevent violence and irregularity in sports competitions, but have not been achieved despite changes made in various dates in this Law. The Law on Violence and Corruption in Sports No. 6222 has been enforced in order to address the shortcomings created during the implementation of Law 5149. It is one of the general principles of criminal law to be judged by the weight of the verb against the person who committed the crime or by the measure of punishment or security. Article 3 of the Penal Code states that the weight of the verb against the perpetrator will be judged against the penalty and security measure. In addition to being proportional to the weight of the verb, the punishment for the crime committed according to this principle must be determined in accordance with fairness and fairness, as well as the punishments for other laws. The first amendment of Article 6222 to Article 11 of the proposal has been changed from one year to twelve years, according to the principle of proportionality and crime. According to the change made in Article 11 in Article 4, the sentence is changed from one year to three years in prison, in the case of the general board and board of directors, technical or administrative executives, representatives of clubs and athletes who operate in the field of sports and federation or sports clubs, the sentence shall be changed from one to 231. This arrangement means that no matter the penalty for the fraud and incentive bonus, the prison sentence against the perpetrator will be executed. It turns out that the new arrangement is important to fight the fraud and incentive charge, given the fact that a decision can be dropped or put into place in crimes of up to two years. In the event that the crimes described in this article are committed at different times as part of the execution of a criminal verdict, the punishment for the most severe sentence will be increased from one quarter to three-quarter and will be ruled over one punishment. In the case of punishment for the crimes described in this article, changes are being made about the person and that security measures will be enforced according to Article 53 of the Turkish Penal Code, which will be prohibited from serving in the management and control bodies of sports clubs, sports clubs, federations. The proposed changes should not be described as a covert pardon. This is a perception of some ongoing crimes, but it appears there is a consensus between both the lawyers and our political parties that the punishment stated in Law 6222 is not proportional to crime. Therefore, the indiscriminate sentences set against these crimes must be reduced, and the public conscience must be comforted. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish you the best offer of the law, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0158par0320	Thank you. The question-answer will be carried out on the matter for ten minutes. Mr. Light and Mr. Demiröz are demanding a statement. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0159par0324	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you just answered my question on the basis of the law with a very political and flexible answer, and I respect that, but now I have another similar question. This proposal was discussed yesterday at the Commission, filed yesterday, being downloaded to the General Board at the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group. Now I ask the same question: What is the reason for the meeting of the law at such a speed? I'd appreciate it if you'd explain. Second, do you find it true that after these events, the Fenerbahçe football team was prevented from going to the Champions League? Then what was the team's fault? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0160par0329	Thank you. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0161par0331	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, it's a status at the Bursa Ataturk Stadium, where everyone remembers it, giving their feelings to the Bursaians through their holiday ceremonies. Although the scholarships decided to keep the Ataturk Stadium in place, Mr. Prime Minister pointed to the new stadium as he passed by helicopter, it was stated that the Bursa Ataturk Stadium would be merged with the Bursa Cultural Park. Correct me if I have misunderstood, but when you answered Mr. Özensoy, you said that you were waiting for the decision of the Scholars about the stadium. I'd like to ask my question again: Will the scholarship Ataturk Stadium collapse? If it is to be destroyed, will it unite with the Cultural Park, or is there a new market that has been spoken of recently? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0162par0335	Thank you. Dear Sakek...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0163par0337	Mr. President, thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Minister: do they have a policy called youth policy, and they will hold a meeting in this policy, the Republican People's Party Youth Arms, Justice and Development Party and the National Movement Party... do they ignore the 4th party? I want to know why you're in such an application. One. Secondly, it's a system where we've applied to the Istanbul Youth County Directorate, and we've agreed on a place for the Istanbul City Congress, but then some invisible hands came in, and I really resent the understanding that cancels the history of that congress, and I'd like to share my great sorrows with Mr. Minister.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0164par0340	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0165par0342	Mr. President, I'd like to ask the Minister a question. In Malatya, before the election, there was propaganda in Malatya, where Malatya would be built into a new city stadium, against the University of Inönu. Twenty-five thousand or thirty-five thousand were discussed, and the decision was not made. This stadium, according to your statement, will not be built this year. Is that true? If it's true, isn't it unfair to Malatya? Malatya is one of the most important cities in the region, one of the largest cities. Another question is, this was said to be the fall of the previous Innu Stadium. The Malatians want it not to be destroyed. We don't want any different construction. We demand that this place be considered either the same or a different green area, considered a green area, considering the density of Malatya. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0166par0345	Thank you. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0167par0347	Mr. Secretary, the basis for preventing violence and disorder in sports is that all teams are treated fairly and equally in sports. I must point out that the province of Bursa, which provides one of the biggest contributions to the TRT (TRT) with its electricity bills in Turkey, is deeply sorry that the UEFA European League match was not broadcast. In the history of the Republic of Turkey, I really don't think we have another city that's been victimized like this when it comes to the broadcast of European Cup games. So far, all the football viewers in Turkey can watch our games in the European leagues, and for some reason, when it comes to Bursaspor, we have been deprived of this right, and the response given to me is that Mr. Deputy Prime Minister's response to the request for a very high broadcast price. I wonder what the cost of this transfer is, and what is the amount of electricity we transfer from the electric share?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0166par0348	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0168par0350	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Light's question is the same as his question on all of them. What is the reason for this offer to be discussed so quickly?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0169par0352	Similar, similar...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0168par0353	Let's say the same question, in your direction. Dear lawmakers, we can't always witness four groups conspiring over the same law proposal. Now that four groups have allied themselves on the same proposal of the law, it has been unanimous in the Commission -- except that Mr. Kaplan has withdrawn his signature -- I don't think there should be any need for immediate discussion of the law here. The question of Mr. Demiröz is that they have asked me about my opinion on the involvement of the scholarship stadium in the square arrangement. Mr. Demiröz, there is an opinion on this, but it is not yet decided that a step in this direction is legally binding. As you know, Turkey is unfortunately unable to operate well in Turkey -- including this in Ankara -- unfortunately in many European countries, and even in eastern bloc countries, Turkey is deprived of the context of large cities. The city's new development areas may be under way, but the old urban centers are deprived of these arrangements. In this sense, there is a widespread belief that the cultural park in Bursa will unite the stadium and that the people of Bursa will form a wider, parallel to the size of the province. And that, of course, will be a matter of consideration. Mr. Sakık had two questions. One of them is related to the BDP congressional process in which they are not assigned to the Gardeners' Gym. During that time, I informed him in person as a healer here and also on the phone. This allocation could not be made to them at the time of a sporting organisation, as they were demanding it at the time it was full of Unioneers' Gym.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0170par0357	We agreed, and then the invisible hand canceled.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0168par0358	There's no missing hand, if there's a hand, Mr. Sakek, there's no way it can be seen if there's a hand. While one of our friends, who was acting as acting manager for the change in Istanbul County Directorate, stated that the hall was available, however, was not available for the allocation of the hall, due to lack of information on the subject, we were informed that it was reserved. We're working on youth politics, that's true. We also conduct a comprehensive youth study that will address Turkey's youth in every way and all its elements, all its problems. In this regard, we find it important to exchange opinions with the members of the regular youth arm, which operates according to the Constitution and by law of our political parties. We find it as important and valuable to negotiate with the CHP as the AK PARTI Youth Corps and the UMP Youth Corps. If the BDP has an organization of youth groups in the same framework, if it has an activity, of course we would not prevent BDP from discussing the elements that are operating within the Constitution and within the laws. But you said they were in prison.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0171par0360	He's in prison.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0168par0361	If what's happening in prison is in the frame that I understand, I'm leaving it to the public's appreciation for how young it can be described.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0171par0362	We don't understand him either, because the indictment hasn't been released.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0168par0363	Mr. Agababa has a question about Malatya. I didn't count the full list of cities in the Plan and Budget Commission that we're going to be building in the new era, I just mentioned the names of certain provinces when I gave them an example. Mersin is the most urgent because the Mediterranean Games will be performed in Mersin. Ankara is among the cities to build the stadium, Samsun is among the cities to build the stadium, Gaziantep and Antalya. I'm not in the mood to count the whole thing again. Malatya is also among the provinces to be built in the same way, at which point I have little hesitation. I don't see the need for the matter to be taken in different directions in public. We want to make these stadiums in all of our provinces, which were promised before the elections, but as our lawmakers say in their questions, it is also desired that the existing stadiums be preserved as they are now in the province, while the provinces be restored to new stadiums. At a time when European economies can't even pay the officer's salaries -- no doubt -- the Turkish economy is strong enough and strong enough to put 14 stadiums into investment programme the same year and make its tender. But while they're being done, real estate transformations, real estate evaluations are inevitable, if we really want to get to these facilities, modern facilities. I prefer to answer this question in writing, since Mr. Erdemir has not entered into my field of questions about TRT and Bursaspor. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit05spe0172par0368	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0172par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 22nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 80. The commission and the government are in place. FROM the third month to a year, from the third year, from the third year to five years in its third joke, the statement was changed from six to six months to two years in its form, and from the fourth from one year to three years in its joke. Bulent Tezcan, Aydın MP who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Tezcan.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0173par0009	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we're here to discuss the proposal of law number 80 for amendments to Law 6222 regarding the prevention of violence in the sport we're discussing. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the 2nd article of the proposal. Dear friends, it has just been expressed, that Law 6222, which came into effect in March 2011, when the need for change in which this proposal was discussed, was adopted and then adopted in March 2011, but, as it appeared in talks with the Justice Commission yesterday, some of the problems in the implementation process of the law were seen to cause serious problems in disturbing public conscience, followed by serious difficulties at the time of criminal justice, with the fact that there was serious difficulties at the point of criminal justice, and that it was not prepared to maintain the balance between crime as well as expected, and that at first, one of the four groups came as a joint proposal, and then said that one of our committee had signed the commission process, and then arrived. Dear friends, it's really important that Law 6222 is being dealt with in agreement on a matter that seems to be disturbing the public conscience and troubling the issue of criminal justice. This is not only important for this change, it is also important for the future parliamentary work process, as well as for the attitude we will take against the unlawfulness and injustices we face in Turkey in general. Dear friends, there are other things that would disturb the public conscience like this. Look, since the opening of the House, the 24th Legislature of Turkey, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, unfortunately, is in the absence of representation, and we're working in incomplete representation. Eight MPs are under arrest, and they have not yet been able to make an oath, and since then, they have failed to use the will of the nation in the laws we've been talking about. There was an agreement signed here. A memorandum of agreement on the missing representation of parliament, in terms of resolving this apology, at the time, with the deputy leader of the Republican People's Party and the members of the Justice and Development Party, and again with the signatures of our other MPs on the delegation. It was said that all political parties and MPs should be in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to carry out this honorable mission our nation has given them. We believe that all legislation, including the Constitution, must be interpreted and implemented with an expanding understanding of freedoms, under the rule of law and by considering the principles of separation of forces. Dear friends, after this agreement has been signed, I'm afraid there has been no further action on the need to be done. Now I have to ask: if this text means nothing, why was it signed? Why is such a text needed to be signed? What happened? Is it Revelation? Dear friends, we'd like to discuss this amendment to Law 6222, and we'd like the will of these 8 arrested MPs to be expressed in this parliament, and I'm just saying that, for that reason, I felt the need to get into it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, I'm afraid in Turkey the length of their imprisonment has become a very serious problem. Look, Turkey has come to a point where there's a universal law, that universal law, there's a legal understanding of the modern law systems all over the world, and unfortunately there's a Silivri law. If you are under arrest for the Lighthouse case, you will be treated by universal law, but if you are opposed to power, you will be treated by Silivri law, by Silivri law. Now, we say that it is important for both democracy and the state of law in Turkey to establish the same agreement on long imprisonments, wrongful arrests, just as the Supreme Assembly has agreed in these provisions that disturb public conscience and criminal justice regarding the amendment of Law 6222. Dear friends, today's Article 2 of the law has been reduced to high-profile substances due to the difficulties caused by criminal justice. We met at the commission yesterday and reached an agreement. With that understanding, yes, these reductions must be made to ensure criminal justice. Here, we have reduced your sentences from two to five years from six months to one year to two years. Now, it's really important to ensure the balance between crime and punishment. Such a consensus has been reached, but why can't we agree on such universal laws on all actions in Turkey? Look, dear friends, we're going through a process in Turkey where we're going to see a bill of law that will come in front of us -- again on the agenda of the Justice Commission -- to prevent financing terrorism, the government bill; this offer, that bill. Dear friends, there's been an interesting recipe for terror in Turkey in recent years. If you fight against the HESEs, you will be charged with terrorism, if you want free education, you will be charged with terrorism, you will be charged with terrorism if you protest the Prime Minister in college, and if you write a book, you will be charged with terrorism. See, just yesterday's newspaper reported that young people were sentenced to twelve years for remembering Mahir Çayan, Hüseyin Javahir and Transport Camçı. Look, guys, the concept of criminal evidence has changed in Turkey. What's the crime evidence? Play the theater, play the music, turn on the banner, sing the Giant Young March. How was the crime committed? Fight until salvation. In the struggle against imperialism and oligarchy, we remember those who lost their lives and salute hope. They were sentenced to 12 years in prison for their opposition to imperialism and oligarchy. During a period when power is trying to place terror crime in such practice, our young people are being tried for terrorism at a time when the fight against imperialism and oligarchy should be considered to be the most honorable challenge at this time.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0174par0026	Read the reason for the verdict, not the newspaper report!
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0173par0027	Dear friends, we know the reasons, we know how even what was said on this untouchable stand in the Oda case indictment entered the indictment, we know how it was brought in as evidence of a crime. We know those reasons, we know how they're prepared. We know where those files were prepared, where they were prepared, how those countertops were set up, and we know how to make it go to waste, no doubt.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0175par0029	Congressmans, please, please, Mr. Hatibe, let's not interfere. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0173par0031	I'm going back to the point. Dear friends, I now demand that you, from the representatives of the entire nation, consider not where you come from, but the nation you are in charge of, consider your responsibility to the nation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Not about the future of this country, but about the power that will account for how you move this country. Thank you all, thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0176par0037	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan. Lütfü Türkkan has been asked to speak for the People's Movement Party Group on Articles. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0177par0041	Don't move like that in there, misunderstood, forbidden, forbidden friend.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0178par0042	That's where the owner of that move is. Sir, good evening to you all. Mr. President, members of the Council, I have made a commitment to the 2nd Amendment to the Law on Violence and Disruption in Sports. I watched the talks about football being redesigned less than a year after that. It really is. At that time, I was the representative of the Bursaspor Club's Association of Clubs. At that time, the Club Association drafted this bill. Mr. St. Thunderbolt was the head of the crew. And it came to pass, by the name of Allah, that the song of the praises of the LORD was the first to enter into the law which was prepared by St. Yıldırım. Such an appreciation is divine. Now we're all working together on a fever, trying to figure out how to save St. Yıldırım in Parliament.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0179par0047	Why?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0178par0048	And I'm asking, why?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0180par0049	Ask your group.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0178par0050	I ask my group, I ask my group. Look, let me tell you something, why? It's like we've solved all of Turkey's problems in Turkey in this time of lawlessness, and we've come to think about how to save the president of the Fenerbahce Club from the inside. If this House really has such a will, if it's working so seriously on solutions, I have a suggestion. Look, there are lawmakers elected in this House who can't function. Which of these MPs is less valuable than St. Yıldırım? [[Applause from CHP and BDP rows]] Come, after this law, if it's a legal problem, if the arrest of these MPs requires a legal change, let's prepare the law proposal for them, and let's bring in Engin Alan Pasha, of course, our other friends. Look, let me tell you something. I served in the Super League, and I was the head of football, including the time when Bursaspor was the champion. I'm amazed at anyone who thinks football is a sport. I'd be amazed at anyone who thinks professional football is a sport. Football is an industry, a serious industry. It's not just in Turkey, it's an industry in the world. Look, Bursaspor won the championship, the championship team didn't even get a jersey ad the next year. So he went out on the field without an ad. Digital subscribers dropped, advertising revenues dropped, Super League brand value dropped. Do you know what the result is? In Turkey, Fenerbahçe, Beşiktaş, Galatasaray, any other champion outside of Turkey, this industry is not making money, it's losing money. So all of these arrangements are just arrangements for these three clubs to become champions. If the other clubs accidentally become champions, like Bursaspor, they'll be out in the field without publicity. I don't want to talk about the stuff the Prime Minister fell on, it's been said several times. So since this isn't the Prime Minister's first fall on the terrace, I don't think much of it. So I hope soon, I think, that the Prime Minister will be like the Ironel he is now so critical, yesterday is yesterday, today is today. As he said, so will the Prime Minister. Yesterday, we said so, the conditions were different; today the conditions have changed; these men that we had sent in must go out. He said, he brought such a law, and we are expected to support it. Look, I'll tell you something else: we've all seen how club presidents are detained on TV together. We also watched them go in handcuffs on their way to medical examinations. We also watched Mr. Prime Minister's Wife Ma'am's brother-in-law, who was taken into custody last week as President of the Istanbul Metropolitan Club, currently acting President of the Football Federation, go to the hospital to receive a report with the driver of a friend's son-in-law. Is that justice?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0181par0060	He's in police custody.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0178par0061	If that's really possible, if it's legally possible, why would you put people before you put them in carpools, exposing them to people like that? Pushed him over the head and put him in the cars? What is this double standard? Why didn't you step on Göksel Silverdağ's head and put him in the car? I claim that the right thing is done to Göksel Silverdağ, which is true, but the other is a law practice against those who are not of you, so you're going to break up in the form of those who are of us in sports as well as those who are not of us. I want to remind you of that.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0182par0062	The People of the CHP are very pleased now.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0178par0063	I'm not here to please the AKP or CHP. If there are friends who want to please them, I don't know how they will please them; but let them go, let them speak, and let them please as they please. I'm speaking for my group here. You'll be careful. There's something very right about you that feels wrong. In this country, if you can still say what I just mentioned is true, I suggest you rethink your facts. Mr. Celal Adan just told me a story, the Silver House-Bayburt story. It's very similar to you, so you do so much injustice in this country, that when a different sound comes out of this place, you never, ever, ever, ever, ever accept it on the floor.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0183par0066	Tell me the story.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0178par0067	The Silver House and the Bayburts are playing. The Silver House scores four goals for the Bayburts. The Bayburts score one goal. They ask me when I get home. We've had four, but we've had one, he says. I mean, that's exactly what you're like.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0184par0068	Congressman, this doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0178par0069	Guys, I don't know what that is. I'm transferring as I've heard from Mr. Celal Adan. I'll tell my master...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0184par0071	It's not appropriate for a congressman to talk like that from the stand. It doesn't look good...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0178par0072	Look, I'm just going to tell you, I've just brought this up, and I've mentioned it before. I'll finish. Then if there are items you don't like or object to, you'll come here and talk. I believe this law will contribute to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. St. Yıldırım will go down in history as the president of a club which has been passed the law against him in the Republic of Turkey. This assembly will also become history as a Parliament that expelled St. Yıldırım from prison.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0185par0074	Don't you have an autograph?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0178par0075	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0186par0077	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Altan Tan is Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0187par0081	Mr. President, dear friends, I wish you all good work, good evening. My dear friends, my heart would have wanted me to come here in such a tidy, four-headed manner, but believe me, in the face of such insensitivity, If you love God, why do you make such a law?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0188par0083	And you have your signature!
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0187par0084	So if someone comes forward and confesses, and says, "Well, that's why I want to get out of the law." The first question is: Eight months ago, this law came into effect, so the existing law, the law you want to change, and the friends who are now inside because of it, were actively involved in the drafting of this law. So they passed their proposals, their recommendations to the House, in which direction, there was a law drawn up in this framework.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0189par0086	Did Mr. Hasip see any of those friends when he signed? Hasip Bey has a signature. You're insulting your own friend!
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0187par0087	So, what's going on right now? What's going on right now?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0189par0088	You're insulting your own Group President.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0187par0089	Now, let me answer you. Let me answer that.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0190par0090	You too, turn the wrong way!
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0187par0091	We see it as a virtue to come back from the wrong.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0191par0092	So Mr. Hasip Kaplan went in there and talked to the people inside...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0187par0093	Mr. Canicli, don't put me in a polemic state, you'll be overwhelmed.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0192par0094	Mr. Canikli, why are you interfering? Please listen.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0187par0095	Look, I'm good, I'm good.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0192par0096	Mr. Canikli, why are you interfering? Please...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0187par0097	I'll make it polemic if you want me to. I mean, if you want to turn me on, I'll tell you right away. Now, what happened eight months ago? Why don't you tell me? Number two: would you have fallen on him again if he'd fixed the Chankırıspor and Corrumspor? If there was a fix between Kastamonuspor and Sinopspor, would it keep this House occupied? Shame on you. I mean, this House should be treated with the seriousness of this House. According to individuals, according to teams, is law enforced according to institutions? I will read to you an account of the Prophet Sallahu and Sellem. He says: "You will be destroyed if you do not apply the punishments to the rich and not the law, but to the poor. That is how the Jews and Christians were destroyed. At that time, the Jewish rabbis also worked in interest, were bankers, committed all sorts of sins. They were doing the punishment of the poor and the punishment of the Torah, but they did not apply it to the rich. Explain, why does this keep you so busy? And for the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey, a fraud was discovered with his documents, with his documents, with his evidence. A good thing is for those who bring forth (the good). Another two questions: has there ever been a fix in the Republic of Turkey? Whose foot did he step on, St. Lightning? Whose foot did he step on, so to speak, our hometown, so to speak. Two, again, the first question: what happened to the gods again? Please explain this, it's that simple, so there's nothing else. Another chapter, now the second chapter, you might say: we are a people of conscience, a people of mercy. This law was set up when the victim of the fix was never properly in the country until today, and then it exploded. Turns out we missed the cantar's ball. So, these punishments, the bill we've drawn up, the laws, our preparations for the law, they lead to an injustice. So we sat down, and we said, "We did wrong, so let's make it right. So if that's the case, I personally take back everything I've said and apologize to you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0193par0104	You take it back, you take it back.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0187par0105	No, if that's the case, if you're so conscientious, if you're so upset, can't you think of eight lawmakers in prison? Three years, five years in a court of law? Ten years in and out of jail, Ahmet Kara, came in, became a congressman in this House, after September 12th, ten years later. Is there such a mistake? No. It was the Welfare Party, my friend. Dear friends, lawmakers have just been told in prison, thousands of young prisons -- let's make an alliance with whatever laws there are in this country that are wrong and cause injustice now, whatever our conscience does not lift. So the only thing that's opened this House now is five months in a hurry... and the most important issue in the country is a fix? Dear friends, I'm afraid it doesn't seem serious here, unfortunately, I wish -- as I said -- that we could support it with our strength. You're wrong. Our conscience can't handle it. We'll fix everything. If you say so, let's start tomorrow morning, let's meet again, let's negotiate, let's all make the urgent arrangements for all these things, including this road-cleaning process. For months, we've been screaming our heads off, saying, "Look, the ones who have the slightest idea are somehow being brought in by the ACK, by the PKK. Young men with banners are being arrested, punished. The mother of our Midyat County Mayor, the illiterate woman, was sentenced to five years, five years, for carrying only one banner. If you say, "You exaggerate these things, where do you take them off?" I'm here. I'm being tried for twenty-three and a half years now because I've been reading and disbanding the mass at the funeral of a Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) person, and I've told the prosecutor, Diyarbakır Prosecutor Ahmet Karaca. You're not a prosecutor, and I'm not a MP. Let's sit down and chat. We talked for an hour and a half. The government should be thanking me, but they're suing me. It's in my case file, my testimony is in the case file, and it says: "He blocked the incidents, he calmed the masses, but he attended the funeral and he read Fatiha." Now, friends, there are some very important disturbances. Again and again, let's form an alliance in all of this; let's make the new Constitution more comfortable, clean the road, lower the blood pressure, relax the country, make it easier to build the new Constitution. But let's put all this aside, and then let the parties in the House gather, and say: "Our most important issue is a matter of deceit." They're victims, they're overcharged, they've been in prison too long, let's get them out. It's not believable in any way, in any way.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0194par0109	Is it credible for you to give up?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0187par0110	Which one? Yes, please.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0195par0111	Congressman, please...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0187par0112	So turn away, and be godfearing.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0195par0113	Mr. Tan, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0187par0114	I mean, the prophets who are correct. And you come and say, "We did it, but it didn't work out for us." Say, "Sister, we're withdrawing from it, and we can't swallow it and we don't accept it." I have a request for all friends, friends of the AK PARTY, friends of the MPP, and People of CHP; whatever happened, I think the Parliament will be under suspicion if they say yes in this frame. If you have a conscience, say yes. We'll say no as a group, and I'll vote no. Again and again, we're open to alliances in all positive matters; bring in human, Islamic, conscientious, moral, but let's say yes, but we call it no. My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0196par0118	Thank you, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0197par0119	Mr. President, Mr. Lütfü has told you about me, I'd like a word for a minute.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0196par0120	Here you go, Mr. Adan.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0197par0121	Lütfü Bey mentioned my name and told me something funny about the Silver House Bayburt axis. I want a word with him.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0196par0122	Your position, please, but why do you have to explain?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0197par0123	Just a minute, just a minute.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0196par0124	No, why would you do that? Was it a taunt?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0197par0125	It's relevant.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0196par0126	Your own friend...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0197par0127	No, no, I have something to say, just a minute.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0198par0128	Correction, correction.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0199par0129	For explaining an opinion that doesn't belong to him.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0200par0130	In accordance with Article 69 of the Civil Code, come in, Mr. Adan.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0201par0133	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with all due respect. I'm a friend of yours who follows the terms of the Justice and Development Party coming to power. You signed a very serious social contract at the point when the poor, the poor, the poor would be sought out. Mr. Lütfü has told you about me, and I'm here on this occasion. What I'd like to share with you is, let's make a decision that those who can't pay should take advantage of the price. I know about the meetings you've been to, you've been to, you've been to, you've been to power by questioning the system. In this system, we already know that the people who gave us this money are very comfortable in military service. I wish today's House would be a means to benefit from the price of those who can't. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0202par0138	That's not what he was talking about.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0203par0139	We didn't understand anything.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0204par0140	Thank you, Mr. Adan, but the issue is unclear. [[Continue]] Haroun Riflesman, Conon MP, who has asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Rifleman.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0205par0148	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf concerning the 2nd Amendment to the Law on the Protection of Violence and Disorganisation in Sports. I salute the grand jury. Today's events or loss of rights, which can now be seen in sports, have left out the need for special organization of this area, rather than simply a matter of security. Given the fact that sports matches are being carried out effectively outside the country's borders, the need for a similar arrangement of sports legislation has arisen in all countries. As it is known, it is the general principles of criminal law to rule against the weight of the verb against the perpetrator or security measures. That principle was also included in the Turkish Penal Code, a fundamental law in the field of criminal justice. In accordance with this principle, the punishment for the crime must be determined in proportion to the weight of the verb, as well as in accordance with the penalties prescribed by other laws. My dear friends, I wish this law to be good for our country and our nation, and I salute you, the esteemed committee.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0206par0153	Thank you. Nurettin Canikli, Giresun MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0207par0157	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. A statement must be made regarding the process of bringing this proposal to the Turkish Grand National Assembly's agenda, which needs to be made clear. You know, we're really surprised sometimes, you know, that our friends are a little bit of a distraction to us and to the public. Here's the deal: First, the proposal came to us signed under three groups of vice presidents -- the Republican People's Party, the National Movement Party, and the BDP group's deputy. Then we went through it, we discussed it with our friends, and we met, so we met with some of the fellow criminals in charge...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0208par0160	Look, not if you say so.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0207par0161	Let me see...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0208par0162	Not if you say so.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0207par0163	No, look, I'm not saying anything. Look, let me...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0208par0164	Three other groups signed, came to us, we studied.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0207par0165	It's nothing to do with you, Mr. Hamzacebi, allow me.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0208par0166	Look, just a second...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0207par0167	Please let me... let me...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0208par0168	Please, no no... but it's not, it's not, it's not.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0207par0169	Look, but they're giving false information here, they're giving false information, and no one's saying it isn't.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0208par0170	It's not working, no.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0207par0171	Look, guys, if there was a signature missing, if there wasn't an agreement, I'll make it very clear that it's true for you and for us, if it weren't for us...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0209par0172	But if you didn't have an agreement, we wouldn't sign it either.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0207par0173	...if any group hadn't signed it, it wouldn't be on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It's very important. So if it hadn't been for Mr. Kaplan's signature, this proposal would not have been discussed here today.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0210par0174	If it wasn't for your signature, he wouldn't be here again, so we're all in this together.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0207par0175	That's right. Any group, I specifically say, look, I mean to underline, but Mr. Kaplan is also on behalf of the BDP group...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0210par0176	So it wasn't you after the three of them showed up.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0207par0177	I'm telling you, Mr. Ali, if any group hadn't signed off on it, you wouldn't have brought it if we hadn't signed it. I'm saying the same thing, look, I'm underlineing it.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0210par0178	Before signing it, the verbal was understood, and then it was signed.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0207par0179	Of course, it was agreed, but if it hadn't been for Mr. Hasip Kaplan's signature or the BDP Group's official, he wouldn't have come back. So, if this is being discussed today, this proposal is being discussed here with the BDP Group's contribution. Is it true? Right.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0211par0180	No, it's not like that.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0207par0181	Of course, we all contribute. We've come to terms, a text that comes in agreement, exactly. Without that signature, we wouldn't have signed MHP, nor would CHP, nor would we. So, if it's being discussed right now, this offer has as much to do with your group as any other group, it has support, it has a signature. I mean, it's not right to just walk out here and say other things, dear friends. So that would be misinformation. Now, before this proposal is prepared, as it has just been stated, in fact, in secret, as it was said, if there was an offer prepared to negotiate with someone's representatives in the business, then your BDP Group is also the Deputy Group Chairman, so it's the BDP Group that faces this threat, one of them. Please, I mean, there's a bill that's been brought in in agreement. We're under, and other groups have their signature, but then you're supporting, agreeing, saying there's no problem, and contributing to the process. And most importantly, you're contributing to understanding, and then you come out and you say, well, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's what we're opposed to, we call it, no. That's not true, that's not true. So you sign, you claim, you reveal will, you hold your will, you pursue your will. Not just the signatures, but all the friends in the group. I'm saying it for all the bands, and I'm saying it for us. I mean, that's the way it's supposed to be, that's the way it's supposed to be. We expect this behavior naturally, we expect it from everyone. I mean, there's no need to confuse people. Of course, I don't want to get technical, but look, I want to make it very clear that our approach is that we all agree on the height of the previous sentences, and when we look at the practices of the world, there's no punishment for these verbs, not in any country in the world. It was wrong, it was definitely wrong, it's being corrected.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0212par0184	There's no need to defend it.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0207par0185	It can be argued, it can be argued, it can be argued, it can be less, it can be more, it can be more, but it's being made reasonable, it's being normal. But there are also very powerful security mechanisms that are said to be not to be perceived as a means of extraction, as they claim to be. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's extremely important. That's part of the first article we voted on. Thus, everyone must speak under the responsibility of his signature. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0213par0190	Thank you, Mr. Canicli. Here you are, Mr. Commander. No, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0214par0193	He said a lot of things to the band.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0213par0194	What did he say, Mr. Commander? What did he say?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0214par0195	That's where I'll tell you what he said.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0213par0196	One moment, Mr. Commander...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0215par0197	He wants to be spoken for because of the bullying.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0213par0198	I get it, but I have to ask. What did he say to your group, Mr. Canicli?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0216par0200	He picked on the band.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0217par0201	He was a bully, and we heard him.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0216par0202	There's bullying, I want a promise.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0218par0203	Mr. Commander, I have no idea what you're talking about. What did Mr. Canicli say to your group?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0216par0204	BDP Group...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0219par0205	Don't be coy...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0218par0206	One moment, Mr. Agha... please!
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0216par0207	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, you'll hear it from there.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0218par0208	What do you want to say?
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0220par0209	I didn't pick on you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0216par0210	Let's take a look at the transcripts together.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0218par0211	No, Mr. Commander, please take your seat... [[Laughter]] Now, Mr. Canikli, whatever he said to your group, I'll appreciate it.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0216par0214	The Covenant isn't like that, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0218par0215	Here, I promise you two minutes, according to Article 69 of the Civil Code. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0216par0217	Mr. President, why are you picking on...
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0218par0218	Two minutes, sir, two minutes, please... two minutes today. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0216par0222	Mr. Canikli, you haven't told the truth, you think this BDP group is your own band? Everyone here has an independent, unique opinion: one. I'll give you a pick-me-up. [[Laughter]] Two, I've looked at a lot of my friends in the AK PARTY, who I'm not going to tell you about, and they haven't raised their hands since that conversation, so I'd like to thank you. Three, if you're wondering about this -- you'll get the footage -- we explained to you and to all the public yesterday that we withdrew it before you even brought it here. You would, too, if you're sincere. We didn't announce it today. We filed a retraction two days ago. Why? Because if you're sincere about this, there's the Ethics Committee, and these football crimes are not judged by the principles of general criminal law. He just gave us the wrong information that the President of the European Union is imitating us. That's not it, there's the Ethics Committee in the European Union, he decides, the system is different, his mentality is different. We announced it to you and to the public two days ago. If you had an exclusive, you'd have done it two days ago.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0221par0226	Look, public opinion is being prepared, public opinion is waiting.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0216par0227	Let's say it's not like that, let's say it's not like that, so let's show that you're a bit of a hypocrite, a little bit of a hypocrite, a little bit of a hypocrite.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0222par0229	Thank you, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0223par0230	Mr. President, I understand that it would be appropriate for Mr. BDP people if something came up about the arrested MPs.
tbmm-2011-11-23sit06spe0222par0231	Members of parliament, due to the completion of our working time, it is Thursday (November 24th 2011) at 14 p.m. to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
