tbmm-2011-10-01sit01spe0001par0001	Dear MPs, I am opening the 24th Year of the Second Legislature of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's 1st Union. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I wish the new year of legislation to be good luck and good luck to our country, to all of us, to be a healthy and successful working year. In the 24th term, our parliament will work for the peace and prosperity of our country, to meet the expectations of our nation. I believe our MPs will do their best to represent our nation. Our MPs and political groups will contribute to the development of our democracy through their work and democratic maturity. The development of cooperation and dialogue channels, the strengthening of the compromise ground and culture will take our democracy further. This period, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey received a large percentage of representations, such as 95%. The number of women's deputies is a delight to all of us. I have faith that this painting will give us strength in our work, increase our efficiency and success. Members of parliament, the Turkish National Assembly, where the national will, the sovereignty of the people, is the most powerful source of our democracy and development. If Turkey has become one of the respected countries of the world today from a situation that struggles to exist in poverty, our Parliament has a great share in this. This institution, the heart of our democracy, has always been successful in creating the solutions to our nation and our country, and will today, will continue to be the hope of our nation by acting with a high sense of responsibility, creating solutions to the problems of our country, in the interests of our nation. Congressmans, no doubt one of the most important agendas awaiting our new legislature year is the subject of the new constitution. As it is known, the 1982 Constitution has been changed countless times to date, but despite all the changes, it has not been able to establish the image of the Constitution of Torbe. Because of this image, every problem has been due to the Right or Wrong Constitution. However, it is not possible to ignore that the Constitution is the source of many social problems. In our country, there is a new need for the constitution based on social consensus and a serious expectation for this need to be met. It is possible to discuss a public agreement that the constitution will be carried out with the free and active participation of all sectors, such as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, political parties, NGOs, academic community. As a matter of fact, many of our political parties entered the 24th-century Parliamentary Elections on 12 June 2011 with a new constitution. In addition, there have been numerous studies of a new and civilian constitution by various NGOs for many years. Dear lawmakers, the construction of a new constitution has been a difficult process not only in our country, but all over the world. It is only natural to have problems with everything from the method to the content of the text to the nature of the constitution. However, no difficulty has ever deterred advanced democratic societies from making constitutions in accordance with the needs of the age, guaranteeing freedoms, and should not deter us. In order to build a new constitution, our society has a culture of democratic reconciliation, the political institution is mature enough to demonstrate the resolution's will, NGOs are capable of providing the necessary contribution, the academic world has proved more than enough the theoretical basis for constitutional construction. It can be observed that there is a necessary sensitivity in the written and visual media. With the constitution to be made, it is up to us as a community and parliament to accelerate our country's development, to minimize social tensions stemming from the Constitution, to end debates that can be held within the Constitution and still continue. I believe we can work out this problem with gangrene as part of our responsibility to our country. So far, I want to thank all of our party groups, our political parties, our esteemed leaders and NGOs who have come to terms with this. Dear lawmakers, it is difficult to say that there is effective and efficient legislation and control activity with the existing Interior Charter. Therefore, I hope, with the contributions of our political party groups in the new era, a new Internal Charter study should come up simultaneously or separately with the Constitution. In addition, the restructuring and construction of political law, the issues stemming from the Constitution, the issues related to the Constitution or separate from it, legal, political, economic, and social legal and institutional regulations, many more problems, the legislation that power brings to the agenda and will bring to the agenda, the issues that opposition parties prioritize, and the issues will be discussed and resolved here. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important problems today is no doubt the terror that has caused our people great pain since the past. Those who have nothing to say will resort to violence. I want to believe that all of our MPs who will serve under the Turkish Grand National Assembly agree that terrorism is a crime of humanity, and it is outdated and primitive to seek a solution to problems through terrorism and terrorism. We must certainly show strong will against the terror and terror networks that attempt on human life, shed blood, take lives, ambush, and ambush, and never sacrifice that will for political competition. No one has the right to break the law. This is the first place to talk about who, what they want, what they want. By staying in law, we can find solutions to problems through democratic ways and methods here. That is the straight path. We can talk about everything here, and we can find solutions together. There's a responsibility for all of us when we do this. Every word on this stand and under this roof should be based on healing a wound, not on bleeding a wound. Instead of dragging the one on the brink of error more wrong and throwing the bridges with him, we have to find the language of reconciliation that will draw him to the ground of truth. That's what's hard, and being a Democrat is about getting over it. As Speaker, I invite everyone to be discreet about maintaining social peace and peace. We must never forget that democracy and rights and freedoms are only for living individuals. Dear lawmakers, with these feelings and ideas, I sincerely believe that in the year of the second legislature of the 24th century, there will be important work to be remembered by our nation with the valuable contributions of our ruling and opposition parties and independent lawmakers, the best and the best solutions to the interests of our country and our nation will be carried out. And I, as Speaker, will be as eager to contribute to this process as I have been to this day. As I finish, I wish you a healthy and peaceful new year, with my gratitude and gratitude to all of you who are alive and you, our worthy deputies, our martyrs, and our veterans, and the founder of our republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who has been president of our House, who has been a member of the state and political community. [[Applause]] Congressmans, Mr. President, the General Assembly Hall is now in session to make the opening statement for the new year of legislation. I welcome them on behalf of our coven. [[Standing ovations]] [[Identical March]] Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-10-01sit01spe0002par0027	Mr. President, on the occasion of the opening of the 24th Year of the Second Legislature of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you, our esteemed MPs, with my deepest feelings. For the first time in the June 12, 2011 elections, I congratulate all of our esteemed re-elected lawmakers, wishing that the new year of legislation would be good and productive for our country and our nation. So far, in all my talks as President of Parliament, I have focused on the meaning and importance of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Reminding of the values represented by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will help us to maintain efforts so far to protect the qualities of our democracy, as well as to approach the problems that stand before the Assembly with great confidence. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, under which we stand, are the most powerful institutions representing the unconditional sovereignty of the nation. It's the authority that takes away his legitimacy from our nation, which gives legitimacy to other institutions in his name. As a nation, the headquarters of our salvation is the source of our organization as a state. The furnace of our democracy is the ultimate guarantee of our sovereignty and sovereignty. Our people's rights, law, freedom, justice, prosperity, demand and longing for prosperity are the high places in which our people are being fulfilled. It's the roof of our nation's common memory and conscience. It's an expression of will and determination that will take our country to the level and beyond. The symbol of our nation's unity and unity is the institution of our people's ambitions and longings for the future. For all these reasons, his responsibility is very heavy, but it's such an honorable establishment. Mr. President, the June 12th elections held in the climate of a democracy feast have shown a powerful picture of our people's preferences and longings. It is admirable that the results of the election will be received without hesitation, with tremendous success within a few hours. In my speech from this bench at the opening of the House last year, I pointed out that our democracy must operate together with both representation and participation. Our people honored the political institution with a high turnout in the June 12th elections, allowing the majority of the color and trends of politics to be represented in parliament. It has given the High Council the courage to brave all your problems without exception. As president, it is my duty to call for the fulfillment of every play given by our people. Parliament is the seat of demand and objection in parliamentary democracies. After arriving at the Supreme Assembly, no doubt every political party, every political line and every MP will reveal their own thesis on behalf of our common future, our problems and our hopes. Mr. President, the most important item of Turkey's agenda as of the morning of June 13, 2011 is the draft of a new constitution. Without exception, all segments carry the will and the idea of building a new constitution, because everyone is uncomfortable with the fact that the Constitution in effect does not respond to our needs, that Turkey is trying to restrict democratic maturity and diversity, that Turkey ignores its wealth. Therefore, the expectations of our people from this parliament are equally high in representation and legitimacy and responsibility. For the first time since the constitution of 1921 and 1924, our dear nation has expressed its responsibility and honor to make a constitution based on the will of the nation. You must act with great responsibility and confidence in carrying out this honorable duty. This process is not a process that can be subjected to fear, anxiety, long - suffering, and infertile quarrels. In regard to the new constitutional process, today, we also have very solid reasons for self-confidence. First of all, we have over 200 years of constitutional experience. In 1808, our experiences, which began with the Senedi Alliance, offering our nation a profound memory and practical or human experience, beginning with the Tanzimat Prize, the Islamic edict, the First and Second Legacy, and the Constitution of 1921, 1924, 1961 and 1982. These memories and experiences will shed light on the new constitution that will bring our nation to the next century. As a nation, in light of this vast experience, we have a strong understanding of what our minimum partners and basic values are. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, our great Assembly, are capable of building a civil constitution under the most difficult conditions of our Liberation War. After our constitutions of 1921 and 1924, the constitutions of our Parliament, which has been ruled by Gazi Mustafa Kemal. Unfortunately, all of our democracy is the product of the period when the national will was suspended. The 1982 Constitution, which is the product of such a period and is still in effect, has lost its internal system despite extensive reforms in recent years, and is now narrowed down by the democratic and economic level that our nation has reached. As a nation, with our dynamic population over 70 million, about ten years from now, we will understand the 100th year of our republic, and about half a century later, the thousandth year of our descent into this land. Therefore, as a country, it is very clear that we as a nation look forward to a brighter future. Thus, we must carry out the new constitutional process without sacrificing some of its procedures and styles to its mistakes, with dedication, self-confidence, and determination. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, two things are very important, including vision and writing in this new constitution, which is to be prepared with confidence. Our constitutions have so far adopted a sceptical and flexible language about freedoms, broad and flexible about limitations. Any kind of freedom has been subject to limitations that are unspecified, that can be drawn to any meaning. What needs to be done today is the opposite. Our new constitution must have a flexible and liberal character. Through the constitutions, it must be avoided from the understanding of subjugating different political lines of the nation, creating tensions between the state and the nation. However, flexibility is not without rules. I'm talking about a flexibleness that responds to modern developments, covers new social dynamics and is open to coverage. Flexibility does not mean wearing off basic principles and sensibilities; on the contrary, basic principles and sensibilities are essential to making them resistant to time. The main problem of the 1982 Constitution is that society and social dynamics are left behind, and even social dynamics are considered a problem. On the contrary, the new constitution must be used by social dynamics and prepared with a liberal mentality. With that understanding, the new constitution: A quality that does not go into too much detail, which determines the basic principles in a strong way, but leaves the details to the law, is flexible and allows for progress. In this process, our most important measurement should be universal standards. For everyone, basic rights and freedom should be a constitution that strengthens and guarantees equal citizenship in every way. The right of each community to live in this country as its own should be carefully maintained under constitutional guarantees. The way to ensure that is by a liberal understanding, to act on a vision that trusts every member of our nation, regardless of its political views, its charms, and its origins. There must be a constitution that consolidates the achievements of all our efforts over the two hundred years, and does not compromise the basic principles of our republic, a democratic, secular, social law state that we all agree on. At the same time, there should be a constitution that remembers that the state is in the service of the nation. In this context, instead of providing custody by covering other organs, he needs to establish a clear understanding of the public, as in modern democracies. It should reflect not only the question but also the understanding of a government that is computing. With that dignity, there should be a constitution that includes the most important qualities of modern democracies, such as transparency and accountability, in their soul and in their speech. It must contain the brakes and balance systems that allow democracy to move forward with all its institutions and traditions. In this metaphor, I would like to draw special attention to the principles of separation of powers, independence of the judge, freedom of press and expression. As a result, our new constitution must contain all the assets that will institutionalise Turkish democracy. Because an institutionalized democracy means a continuous, sustainable and consistent democracy, independent of times, people, powers. A institutionalized democracy is a democracy that can provide its citizens with the needs of democratic law state at all times and under all circumstances, without being affected by conjunctural currents. Mr. President, good lawmakers, the process of making the constitution is as important as the norms in building the new constitution, because it's as important as the basic procedure. It is imperative that the new constitution be done in a well-calculated way, based on solving problems. In this metaphor, the work that Mr. Speaker started with scientists and aimed at meeting all parties in a common understanding is satisfactory and encouraging. The new constitution should not bear the seal of any special idea, party, ideology and doctrine. The only seal the Constitution must carry must be the seal of our nation. In this regard, I find it very useful not only for parties represented in the Supreme Assembly but also for other political parties, NGOs, universities and trade organisations to participate in this discussion. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers show that states and regimes, which extend history, fundamental rights and freedoms, accountable governments, and establish the rule of law, have always been strengthened. In short, these values are the basic guarantee of a country's stability, prosperity and security. It is also a guarantee of regional and international peace. The most effective way to consolidate our inner peace is to turn our country into a first-class democracy in every way. When we embrace democracy with the entire institution, the foundation and the acquish, we can achieve real peace and quiet in our country. One of the most fundamental and indispensable principles of democracy is, without a doubt, the rule of law. However, law is not an instrument of the fight for political superiority. There have been times when it is impossible to establish political superiority through law, shape society, and mold people into a certain pattern. There must be a quality of law that puts human life and honor in high esteem. Justice and injustice should not be covered by the law. Law must observe the principle of justice. The ultimate goal of the rule of law and its ideal is to meet the demand for justice. The satisfaction of the demand for justice is the common responsibility of all organs of the state, the institutions that form these bodies and all those who serve in these institutions. The rule of law is one of the essential conditions of democracy and the rule of law, an independent and neutral judicial system that aims to protect human dignity and ensure justice as it should be. The judicial authorities are the last hope for those who think they've been wronged. The destruction of the hopes of those who seek asylum in the law also undermines the trust of the government. If there is a widespread belief that the judiciary is not being fair, there will be difficult wounds on the conscience of society, and the sense of trust will be lost. Therefore, the judiciary is expected to pay maximum attention to its functions. Personal feelings and preferences, political and philosophical opinions should not affect judgment and should not lead to unjust consequences. On the other hand, in front of our courts, there are numerous cases that cannot be completed in time due to excessive workloads and lack of staff. That's one of the most important things that has caused arrests to turn into actual punishments and delay the act of justice. The situation also mars the effectiveness of the judiciary. Therefore, quickly resolving these problems in cooperation should be our primary priority. Mr. President, the bond between safety and democracy is a matter we all have to examine with precision. Today, without democracy, without security, without security, there can be no talk of a real democracy. Therefore, democracy is the most effective way to fight terrorism and the most important sacrifice we have to make to protect it with jealousy. In recent times, the growing acts of terrorism have not only meant our security forces, our innocent citizens, our national unity and integrity, but also our democracy. Therefore, the fight against terrorism is also a struggle to protect and advance our democracy. I would like to make it clear to our entire nation that the unity and indivisible integrity of the state is our basic political perspective and our non-negotiable principle. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Terror has no justification. Under no circumstances can the attacks on the integrity of the state and the existence of the nation be presented as a search for rights. Terror is a scourge that cannot be tolerated, it must be destroyed. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Terror does not serve or serve any cause. On the contrary, no matter what he says when a case becomes a terror, there's a way to fight it. Those who try to spread the climate of terrorism, those who do not have a clear attitude towards terrorism, do the worst damage to them. Thus, our country will continue the fight against terrorism in the most efficient ways and without hesitation. Recently, the separatist terrorist organization's attacks on innocent people, including women and babies, are shameful murders in the name of humanity. Such attacks deeply hurt the consciences and pushed the limits of long - suffering. Therefore, it is at least an honor debt to humanity that everyone, regardless of the idea, the zigzag, who aims at the crowds in the center of cities without any distinction, is strongly wired, no matter what the idea, the party. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In the process, all institutions of the state and all trends of politics must act with common precision. It is the duty of the state to take the necessary steps to combat terrorism, to apply all methods within its own principles within the rule of law. So it's our duty to take care of our government, to corner our government, or to eliminate the scheme that tries to weaken it. On this occasion, I give thanks to our veterans and to all our martyrs who have sacrificed their lives for the sake of the country and the nation. Mr. President, it's important to separate our citizens from those who support terrorism and promote terrorism, who express their demands in the democratic system without resorting to violence in the fight against terrorism. Under the compassion and law of our state, those who see our nation's insight and strength as a weakness are mistaken in the effort to fight the innocent without harm. As long as terrorists perceive this policy, our resolve to fight terrorism will continue and they will suffer the consequences. Those in search of blood and violence, those who think that the democratic steps were achieved by terror, are in historical error. Because it should also be well known that if it weren't for terrorism, we'd be living in a Turkey far ahead of democratic standards and economic development. Dear lawmakers, on the other hand, we can solve the Kurdish problem again in democracy, with a sense of our common values and state, which brings joy to our democratic shortcomings as a result of long-term negligence. The solution is to take steps towards democratic development before going to fork with an ideological and ethnically focused political language. In this respect, on the opening day of the House, I owe it to all political parties to understand each other, to compromise, and to recommend self-reliance. Mr. President, the most important indicator of stability, success and public happiness in a country is the country's economic performance. With that understanding, I would like to share my views on both the Turkish economy and the international economy. The Turkish economy, which has been in the customs union for 15 years and has been integrated with the world economy, will, of course, be affected by what is happening in international markets. As everyone knows, the global crisis that began in August 2007 has not yet ended, while the world economy faces a new crisis today. The recovery, which began in late 2009 and continued throughout 2010, has, unfortunately, stalled since May 2011 and has brought the countries back into a recession process. High debt burdens facing the United States and eurozone and public finance issues stemming from large budget deficits, and the lack of political decisions to resolve these problems have aggravated the problems of the countries. In the process, private debts have become public debt, and the burden of debt of the state has reached unsustainable levels. In the previous crisis, the public sector was saving private sector companies. Now the governments are in need of saving. In the end, the prospect of a new global crisis has to affect the decisions of consumers and producers and investors. In order for this already emerging balance of economic horror to not suddenly become a global crisis, it is imperative that the G-20 platform, the best mechanism in the international community, be run more effectively. When I evaluate global economic developments in terms of our country's economy, I see this picture: First of all, the ongoing global crisis and the second wave of economic recession that has been attempted to avoid are not the crisis of emerging market economies like us. These crises are the crises caused by developed countries. Despite the global crises, the Turkish economy sits on solid macro-based foundations. Today, we have a stronger public finance, sustainable debt dynamics, sound banking system, functional credit markets and monetary transfer mechanisms. Although there has been some increase in recent years, our debt rate is still low compared to other countries. On the other hand, our low austerity of savings creates a weakness for us. However, in a global environment where most countries grow very low, where some countries never grow, the Turkish economy grew by 9.2% in 2010 and 10.2% in the first half of 2011. This growth has been an employment growth. In a time when the grades of many developed market economies have been downgraded, it is admirable that our country's credit rating has been increased three times since 2009. I sincerely congratulate all the officials and our hardworking people who have contributed to this. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] However, for reasons that I mentioned earlier, it is essential to always be careful in an external economy, to keep a close eye on the trends of change in global conditions, without feeling a sense of relief and relaxation. In this sense, I am pleased to see that our economic administration, especially the government, has taken the necessary financial and financial decisions in this direction in time and continues to take them. I also appreciate the co-ordination and cooperation of all economic units within themselves during the critical period. Of course, we are proud that the Turkish economy today is the world's 16th and Europe's 6th largest economy. However, we need to work hard not only to cover the difference between us and a multinational-income country, but also to address regional imbalances and to ensure justice in the revenue distribution. Econometric analysis shows that by 2023, the 100th year of our republic's sustainable growth rate of ten per cent will only carry our per capita income to 80 per cent of the European Union's current average. The high growth rates we have to achieve in order to achieve these goals are, unfortunately, the chronic current problems and risks. So far, we've often sought a remedy for our current issues with currency. Of course, currency is one of the key macro variables that determines the competitiveness of a dry economy, so it should be considered by decisionmakers. However, discussions about the exchange rate should not cause structural problems to be altered and solutions to be delayed. The latest growth and current numbers indicate that a significant part of our country's current open problem is structural. Our country has achieved significant success in the final production of products in recent years. Performance in white objects and in some industry branches, primarily machinery and equipment, is evidence of that. However, we cannot produce enough quality intermediary and raw materials in our country to produce these quality products that are required in international markets. Dear lawmakers, I want to bring to your attention at this particular point: according to a 2009 study by our Ministry of Economics, our production industry's dependence on imports is around 82%, and our export dependency on imports is just as high. So we're going to have to import 82 cents to export $1. This is a serious structural problem that should disturb all of us. So we need to figure out how to make rapid growth happen before the high rate is open. The past nine decades have been the repair years of the broken macroeconomic foundations of our economy. In the coming period, we need to focus all our efforts on reforms that will increase total factor efficiency in order to achieve the infrastructure and self-confidence that this positive economic table provides. With our obligations from international agreements, such as the Customs Union and the World Trade Organization, we must make sure that some of the raw materials and intermediaries that we have produced in part are available in the country. We have to make up for what some countries that we can compare our development processes with our country's own brands -- 60, 70, and finally 90, because of political and social instability. In this framework, we are obliged to rationally review our incentive system and reduce our dependence on energy, raw materials, intermediaries and advanced technology products. Dear lawmakers, let's not forget that a dynamic population, a strategic geography, and a country with a long history, must have a sustainable and solid-based economy to protect national interests on the one hand, and to have an element of stability and peace in its region. With that understanding, I have full faith that in the last decade, we will be able to achieve high growth rates with low current deficits, with structural changes to be implemented, just as we have survived high inflation, corrupt public finances and high interest spirals. On the other hand, as I draw the attention of the public in my various speeches, it is imperative that our country be transformed into an information economy without delay. In this direction, increasing state-university-special sector cooperation is key in the field of science, technology, education, research, development and innovation. Mr. President, we have no choice but to turn our country into a knowledge society and an economy to compete against the power balances of the 21st century. This one goes through education. Teachers are the basis of education. We've all witnessed that a well-grown, selfless, visionary teacher can change the future of all his students. Therefore, it is the best investment a nation can have to offer to consolidate the energy and resources necessary to address all problems related to education, particularly the training of qualified teachers. On the other hand, it is clear that a healthy society and the economy will only be possible if women actively participate in all areas of human life, including politics. On this occasion, I would like to express my appreciation for a significant increase in the number of our women's deputies in the House as a result of the June 12th elections. In the new year of law enforcement, I wish, with the great help of our female lawmakers, that the issues such as violence against women and the problem of our daughters' education be resolved and taken off the agenda of our country. Mr. President, valuable MPs, we're going through a very active and historic period in terms of foreign policy. Since last year, there has been a historic change and transformation process in the Middle East and North Africa that will mark the next decades. As I have said on many occasions, this wave of democracy, which resembles the 1848 and 1989 revolutions in Europe, is now irrefutable. I noted the need for change in the region in my speech at the Islamic Co-operation Agency Foreign Minister's Meeting in Tehran in 2003. On that day, I told my colleagues that current governments were incapable of responding to the legitimate demands of the people of the region, and under the circumstances, everyone had to organize their own homes and make sincere reforms to prevent public reaction or foreign intervention. For years, the people of the region, suffering in the grip of oppression, fear, occupation, poverty and corruption, have finally decided to take their future into their own hands and capture history. This struggle is the struggle to regain national dignity and self-esteem as much as freedom and justice. The region's people closely follow Turkey, which they see as an inspiration for the success of their historic transformation process. I'd like to announce once again from this bench that the Turkish nation is with them in this historic and honorable struggle of friendly and sister districts. Our country's economic, political and military contributions with that understanding are truly admirable. On this occasion, first, I congratulate all our civil and military authorities for their superior success and sacrifice in the evacuation of 25,000 of our citizens and many foreigners in Libya. It is our greatest hope that Libyan people, who have now passed a major commitment to democratic change, will not be able to rule out ideological and tribal-based disputes, but also investigate their national unity and integrity. On the other hand, I regret to say that in recent years, our neighbor Syria, who we have made the biggest political and diplomatic investments in, has been too late to properly analyze developments in the region. As Turkey, we always wanted the Syrian people to be happy and the Syrian state to be strong, and we sincerely carried out those policies. However, despite all our open and closed attempts by the Syrian administration, the country continues to have brother's blood flowing. We no longer have confidence in the Syrian government, which continues to use oppression and violence against its own people. In any case, Turkey will be with its ancient friend, the Syrian people. For this historic change in the Middle East and North Africa to be bonded with peace, stability and prosperity, not only our official authorities, but our political parties, our business world and civil society organizations must also make active efforts in these countries. In our efforts, we must help the stability, justice, democracy and development of brothers and friends on every level. We also need to pioneer the creation of security architecture with an economic co-operation mechanism that will cover the entire region in order for Arab Spring's gains to be permanent. Mr. President, esteemed lawmakers, I see a great danger in the region today that is deepening in the Sunni-Sii axis. This dangerous process that will waste the energy and resources of the region must be prevented. From here, I'd like to address all governments and organisations that are a source of provocation by evil forces that are trying to profit from such a primitive dissolution in the Islamic world: Do not allow the process of turning the Islamic world into the darkness of Middle Ages Europe in the 21st century. Dear lawmakers, these historic events must not forget the fact that one of the main issues still boiling in the region is the Arab-Israeli conflict. In this spirit, the support of our country for the Palestinian people's struggle for recognition of their own state is part of our brotherhood with Palestine and our historical responsibility. On the other hand, the country that should be monitoring and analyzing the new political climate in the region is Israel. Because democratic and demographic dynamics in the region are growing against Israel. Israel is impossible to achieve true peace and security unless it is withdrawn from Arab territory, where its capital is Jerusalem, an independent and honorable Palestinian state has blocked its establishment by occupation, tyranny and land extortion. Another issue of Israel's strategic approach is related to our country. There is no normalisation of our relationships unless Israel takes the necessary steps in the context of our righteous demands. Dear MPs, 2011 is the 20th anniversary of the independence of fellow and brother Turkish republics. We rejoice as a nation without the enormous progress that the brothers and sisters have made in strengthening independence and on the road to economic development over the past 20 years. I sincerely hope that our brothers and sisters in the Turkish republics, whose joy and sorrow we feel in our hearts, as stronger states and democratic societies in the coming years, will achieve many great achievements. On the other hand, our country's will and growing activity to contribute to world peace is appreciated throughout the world. In this context, I am very pleased that our country's contribution to solving many complex problems has made a difference. Turkey's dialogue and co-operation processes, which have led or participated in many issues involving the Caucasus, the Balkans, Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Lebanon, Palestine, and Somalia, have become the most meaningful mechanisms to contribute to peace and stability efforts in these areas. On the other hand, another area where our country uses its increasing resources and capabilities in a sense of global responsibility is its support for global development efforts. In this framework, I was delighted to have hosted one of the most basic forums in development of the United Nations, the Summit of Less Advanced Countries. Africa is a continent that should not be abandoned to its own destiny, making up two thirds of the least developed countries. In this context, the hunger disaster in Somalia, which has been in the grip of 20 years of civil war, has also been a disgrace to all mankind. Our noble nation exhibited its affinity for Somalia a hundred and fifty years ago because of many disasters, such as the Great Irish Famine. I hereby congratulate our people, who are very enthusiastically involved in the Somali campaign, with my sincerest feelings. Recently, we have witnessed many natural and environmental disasters in Indonesia, Haiti, Pakistan and Japan. The extent of disasters is often beyond the power of even the most powerful states. For this reason, I called on the United Nations General Assembly last year to establish the ability to deal with hunger, drought, epidemics, and natural disasters. I am pleased to say that the United Nations General Assembly has responded to this call and has initiated a process of neglect of power under the name HOPEFOR. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, on the basis of common values, I am deeply concerned about relations with countries that we are bound by strong alliances. In this framework, relations with our allies, the United States, where we share and collaborate similar visions in many global and regional issues. Again, Europe, which we're part of, is the continent where our country has the most profound, comprehensive, multidimensional relationships. We have intense political, economic, military, scientific, cultural and human relations with many of our allies and leading business partners, European countries. As we all know, the global economic crisis that began in August 2007 and continued instability in the euro region have caused Europe to shut down. In this case, strategic myopism of some European Union leaders also played a role. In an environment where the global center of gravity moves towards Asia, where democratic enlargement moves towards the east and south of Europe due to the Arab spring, it is likely that the European Union's inclusion will lead to serious strategic costs in the future. In the context of our relations with the European Union, as I have repeated on various occasions before, we must faithfully carry out our share of the talks without compromising our strategic priorities. Because let's not forget that the economic stability we have achieved today and the democratic reforms we've achieved have been a very important contribution to the European Union negotiating process. As a result, like Norway, we must strongly demand that we be able to successfully complete the negotiations. Let us not forget that when the negotiations process is completed, the decision to join the European Union will be made not only by the people of the European Union, but also by the Turkish people. Meanwhile, the Cyprus issue, which many members of the European Union seek refuge in, should be known by everyone that lacks the will to compromise is the Greek Cypriot government. Dear MPs, as everyone knows, we have made every effort as the Turkish side in the talks on the island's merger. Despite their rejection of the Annan Plan, supported by the entire international community, the Greek side was able to join the European Union. The declarations and statements published by several prominent European Union countries in the process are still in the archives, saying that the Greek Cypriot administration had entered the European Union without representing the entire island. For the first time, the European Union has followed a policy that violates its own principles by taking a government that has not solved its internal problems, which does not represent its entire country. Now, the second half of 2012, when such a government becomes President of the European Union, it will show the weakness of the European Union. This should also be an issue that needs to be questioned by the European Union. A much more important point is that the European Union sees all of this as normal, in an environment under which negotiations have been held, the Greek administration feels no obligation to the solution. It is evident that this makes the European Union the greatest encouragement of unresolvedness. Under the circumstances, I'm afraid the European Union will be responsible for the beginning of a process that will make unification on the island completely impossible. I'd like to remind you right now that everyone will have to accept the consequences of such a process sooner or later. Finally, no one should have any doubt that Turkey will take all necessary measures to protect its national interests in the Eastern Mediterranean. Mr. President, when I end my words here, I bless all members of the High Assembly who have served our nation, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. I pray that the new era will bring blessings for our nation and our state.
tbmm-2011-10-01sit01spe0003par0168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-10-01sit02spe0003par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 1st Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Now, according to our Constitution, lawmakers must make an oath before they begin their work. I will call to the stand in the alphabetical order of the provinces, the members of lawmakers who have never taken an oath before, to swear in this union.
tbmm-2011-10-01sit02spe0004par0003	Mr. President, I sent you a compass.
tbmm-2011-10-01sit02spe0003par0004	Yeah.
tbmm-2011-10-01sit02spe0004par0005	You're setting the agenda wrong. According to Article 3 of the Civil Code, lawmakers are sworn in at the beginning of the merger. The unification has passed, you've closed the First Session and you've gone to Second Session. Therefore, the sentence in Article 3 of the Civil Code is clear, and the MPs at the beginning of the merger say. Then there is no way to make an oath according to the Civil Code, but if you take into account the Civil Code. You have a habit that I sent you a compass when you were the Speaker of the House... please consider the wishes of the MPs. Thank you, Mr. Young, for your sensitivity. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to express my opinion. The Civil Charter has arranged the oath, which is in Article 3 of the Civil Code, and the speech of the presidents is in Article 104 of the Constitution. In the norms hierarchy, the Constitution precedes the Civil Code, so that's one. Second: In 1951, the same was said earlier in 1951, as it was in Article 36 of the 1924 Constitution at the time, that the president's work in the Parliament last year and the measures deemed appropriate in the coming year. So the 24 Constitutions also have this provision. As a result of that verdict, Mr. President first spoke to the General Board, and the swearing-in ceremony was carried out in 1951, exactly as it is today. Therefore, there is no harm in implementing the Civil Code in the oaths of lawmakers who have not taken or have not been sworn in here today. Then you should have taken the oath of the MPs first, then you should have had the speech made. So you're doing it wrong.
tbmm-2011-10-01sit02spe0005par0012	Now, according to the alphabetical order of the provinces, I'm going to call the MPs to the stand. Bengi Star... No. Jesus Sky... no. Congressmans, there is nothing else on our agenda today. On Tuesday, October 4, 2011, it is 15 p.m. to discuss the agenda, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
