tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 26th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you five minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, we've got enough meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0002par0008	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0001par0009	First word off the agenda...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, I'd like a word about the procedure.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0001par0011	Sir?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0002par0012	Mr. President, before we begin, please.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0001par0013	Here you go, Congressman.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0001par0015	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, one moment... Please raise your voice, we can't hear you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0002par0017	I'll raise you, Mr. President. The people's will, which is the strongest tuition for the Republic of Turkey, is now a prisoner, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0001par0019	Please enter the system, your voice is not clear.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0002par0020	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are the people's will for the strongest tuition of the Republic of Turkey. The will of the people today...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0001par0021	Mr. Tarhan, tell me what you're going to talk about first. Off the agenda...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0002par0022	Mr. President... today is Turkey's Great Nation...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0001par0023	No, we'll make a promise off the agenda. Let's listen to what's off the agenda, and then we'll listen to you. What do you want to talk about? I turned on the microphone first. Mr. President, today is the 1,000th day of your arrest. It's about this. After that, ma'am, we'll be done with the extracurriculars. We want to make a statement about this, Mr. President. All right, Mr. President, all right. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Istanbul MP İbrahim Yiğit (Ibrahim) who asked about Muharrem's month. Here you go, Mr. Hero.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0003par0035	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to Muharrem, one of the sacred months of Islam, and I salute you all. Dear MPs, Muharrem is an important month to remind us of the human drama that took place in Kerbela on the 1372th anniversary of the month. The massacre of 73 lives, including Imam Hussein and many women, has been a black stain and atrocity of human history. For this reason, Muharrem is a month of mourning and mourning in our Muslim society for our lives lost in Kerbela. This mourning is a platform that collectively unites us with Sunni, Alevi, Jaferi, and other sects that bring their citizens together and shed common tears on a single axis of emotion. The Kerbala events that we all know our history to the fullest detail have always led to the loss of innocent people's lives. Thousands have lost their lives in the wars against Ehlibeyt, which still contain the ambition for power. The real meaning and significance of this month is to ensure that similar wars of power, which have often happened in history, have been lost to humanity and that man will never again be experienced by reminding man of persecution. So, as Imam Hussein said, not to oppose the persecution of the oppressor is the greatest evil to be done. I consider it a disgrace to myself to live with the oppressors, and I will find death against the oppressors. He spoke best of the very essence of that day's resistance and set an example for us. At the same time, Imam Hussein opposed man's worship of man and argued with his life by rejecting it when he was asked to pledge it. If we still remember him here today and remember him, his cause is his honorable and valiant struggle in Kerbala for his righteous cause. Dear lawmakers, faith is a very sensitive issue for societies. No one in the community would want to interfere with his faith. At this point today, all groups of beliefs and sects in our country are taking serious steps to live more freely in their own beliefs and philosophy. The issues that have not even been raised for centuries are being considered today and are being resolved by consideration of the sensitivities of our society. What's important here is that sincere and sincere approaches to the solution can be shown by everyone. All problems can be solved easier with common sense. Where there's no common sense, there's conflict and tension. Clearly, this situation does no good to anyone. The truth comes out of the conflict of opinion, as Hazreti Ali said. The important thing is that by meeting in the human focus, different languages, religion, faith and ethnicities can live together in peace. Our country has come to this day as a result of the common struggles of these groups. Dear lawmakers have never wiped out the human drama of Kerbela and other similar events from history's pages, and by not forgetting these events, humanity has punished the wrongdoers in their own conscience. Persecution causes the dissolution of individual and social peace, the destruction of unity and unity in society, the destruction of love, respect, and tolerance. Indeed, the wrongdoers will one day be requited [for their misdeeds]. The month of Muharrem's mourning fast is for Imam Hussein in Kerbela, and for 70 others who were killed together. Imam Hussein, who resists society's injustice and tyranny, has gone down in history as a symbol of honorable resistance to human rights eaters and oppressors. It is the responsibility and duty of all those who are human to defend light against darkness, tolerance for barbarism, democracy against demagogy, life against death. Dear MPs, as I put an end to my words, I once again share the sufferings of Kerbela, with the hope that the peace and peace of our country will not be broken, and that people will live in peace and brotherhood.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0004par0044	Thank you, Mr. Hero. Mr. Chancer, I believe you have a request for a word on this matter.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0005par0048	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We, the National Movement Party Group, are celebrating the holy month of combat. In this month, I invite everyone to pray to the unity of our nation, to the presence of humanity. It is our responsibility to develop the unity of sorrow and to take precautions that we together will never experience these sufferings again. Any behavior that would undermine our unity by scratching the scabs, by making politics through pain, will be unfair to this country and our nation. As the National Party of Action, he celebrates the month of battle, asking the Lord God to grant and accept the prayers of this month, to pay tribute to your great delegation. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0006par0053	Mr. President, Mr. Ozkes...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0007par0054	Mr. Aslanoglu, we're giving it to the members of the group, no. Apart from the agenda, it's only for the members of the group, about... The second statement outside the agenda belongs to Ankara MP Izzet Çetin, who wants to talk about changes in the Unions' Law. Here you go, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0008par0061	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers regarding the work of Public Officers Unions Act 4688. I salute you all. Before I begin my speech, I would like to invite Mustafa Balbay and other lawmakers, arrested, imprisoned MPs, and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, who were sentenced to spend the thousandth day of their imprisonment in Silivri dungeons. Again, before I begin speaking, I would like to begin speaking to Professor Server Tanilli, one of the great verses of civilization's history and republic's enlightenment, with God's mercy and condolences to his loved ones. Dear friends, as you know, on 12 September 2010, a referendum had been made and the Constitution would be granted a collective contract instead of a public meeting. During this period of one year and fifteen months, unfortunately, no progress has been made because AKP governments have not made legal arrangements. After the June 12th elections, Mr. Çelik, the second Labour Minister, stated on August 4th that there was no room for public talks as of August 15th, and that in the early days of October their preparations were completed, the changes in the Unions of Public Servants' Act would be on the agenda of the Assembly and that they would sit on a collective contract table with officers who would be subject to legislation in the General Assembly after talks on the commissions. In September, in October, Mr. Minister, with statements made in a row, nothing was produced in Law 4688 but words, and when officers were waiting for collective agreements on the Unions Act 2821, and on Article 2822, both the Strike and Lokavt Act 2822, as if you had not been able to remove it for ten years, as if it had been in the law on business safety, as well as in Law 4688. Now, from the media reports, it appears that officers will enter January without a raise, and again with a word of emancipation: we will set rights with collective agreements and pay the officers a difference. Dear friends, the Clave has been beating on your air for over two months. Turkey's Grand National Assembly must immediately pass the laws Turkey needs, but I'm one of those who testify that the Labour Minister has produced nothing but words because I really know his imamism and rhetoric. Laws that have not been passed since ten years have not been on the agenda of Parliament since the Employment Insurance Act. Officers are waiting for a collective contract. The officers want to be in a free group agreement. Without limitation of rights, civil servants working at military workplaces, members of the judiciary, law enforcement officers wanting to exercise collective contract union rights, there is no law or any other regulation. At least in many matters, the Minister says the bill is ready. He says we'll send the bill. Ten drafts appear, one doesn't know when to meet. We'd like to ask the Minister to bring the arrangements for this work life to the agenda of the House as soon as possible. Mr. Secretary of State has one more habit these days, he's taken care of other laws, and now he's got his eye on State Officers Act 657, and he says: "The law is old, it's old, it's old, he needs to retire." All employees, officers from the minister's word are disturbed because his officers are concerned that by changing that law, it's going to make their business unsecured, and it's going to be easy to put an end to their jobs. Let the minister take a look at things in front of him, let him finish them, and if there's a change in State Officers Act 657, we'll see him on that day. Look, I'll see you in a few minutes at the House. We've reached a point in parliament where we've left all the workers in Turkey restless, unorganized, and now we've made Parliament staff restless. Really, the employees are restless, the employees are uncomfortable. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He wishes you to bring legal regulations to the agenda of the House as soon as possible, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0009par0073	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. The third word outside the agenda belongs to Isparta MP Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, who asked about the problems of criminal execution officers. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0010par0078	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. The sacred mechanism called justice is not just judges and prosecutors or courts. When it is called justice, it covers the amount of time it takes for the execution to be completed and given up by the state, including detention, arrest, trial, sentence and execution. For the establishment of justice and for the judgment of the judiciary, judicial officers, execution officers, court-martials as well as criminal vehicles and methods and prisons are as important to the judge as the prosecutor. Criminal execution officers, who have been one of the key gears in this mechanism for some time, have been trying to reach out and explain their problems to authorities over 12,000, but the AKP has always seen it as a way to please those at the top, so the criminal execution officers are unable to respond. I'm sure they've delivered these problems to all parties and also to the National Movement Party, and they've asked the Parliament to speak to them on several channels, and they've made certain starting demands: 1) They want to participate in the safety and security services class, including the specific and working conditions, and thus benefit from the actual service increase. 2) The Ministry of Justice has been excluded from the execution institutions in the provision of overwork for the central and rural organization, while prison execution officers who work longer than the weekly working hours set by the duty system, holiday, night, day, and day, and from time to time, are entitled to more work fees. 3) They expect salaries and fees to be raised to the human level of living, at least to the level of security forces that perform the same task, and to increase additional indicators to their pensioners. 4) In the decision-making mechanisms of criminal execution institutions, they expect changes to be made and to be used in the experience of sublevel officers and supervisors who know the internal affairs of prisons and even live with inmates, sharing those conditions with them. 5) They also demand that the weapons carrying licenses given to prison execution personnel, which serve under extremely difficult and risky conditions, also apply for retirement and immunity from certain fees. 6) They demand ease in their appointment of education, health, spouses, housing, housing, service, and school issues to be resolved. 7) They ask that administrative officers be appointed more from the execution staff, and that the rights of their rights be met between contracted staff and staff members serving in criminal execution institutions. 8) Criminal execution officers are requested to be given the right to form a union and become a member. 9) They want to increase the amount distributed from business share and spread to all personnel in different status. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, these demands are all reasonable and none too many. The state does not discriminate between its own children, nor can it discriminate between them; nor can it see its own children, nor can it see the other as step-steppers. The judgment and the fair judgment only make sense when the execution is carried out, no more or less. Prisons have an important function, not only of punishment, but of bringing doomed people back to community life. The ruling judge is unaware of the execution of the verdict. Prison prosecutors also go home after the end of their shift, where the peace of prisons and security are originally entrusted to the execution officers. The high level of material and meaningful work satisfaction will cause them to perform their duties without any concern, and the expectations of the state's justice service will be fulfilled. In this regard, we think that the solution to the problems that I refer to as being aware of the importance of the service of these personnel is necessary, even necessary. We now declare our support as the National Movement Party in the arrangements to bring to Parliament to address these problems. I salute your grand delegation with heartfelt success, with their families, with a peaceful, healthy, and happy life, to all the criminal execution staff who are trying to carry out their duties in very difficult working conditions.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0011par0092	Minister of Labour and Social Security Faruk Çelik will respond to non-responsive speech. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0012par0095	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to my esteemed fellow MP, Mr. Izzet Çetin, who has spoken out of the agenda regarding the changes in the Unions Act 4688. I salute you all. Dear MPs, as you know, Article 53 of the Constitution has been changed in 1995, and the decision of the meeting was passed in 1995. At the end of the meeting, the final decision was made to the Council of Ministers, and the authority was left to the Council of Ministers. The law of compliance with this amendment was adopted in 2001 by the Law of Public Officials Unions No. 4688, which was adopted, so six years later, six years after the Constitutional amendment, such a law of harmony was adopted.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0013par0097	So you still have five years.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0012par0098	Today, the amendment we made in 2010 and the demands after that are true because the opposition really knows our speed too, so there's no need to wait six years, ten years, and I want to thank you in a series for following our work on this. Dear friends, now that we've come to the point where we've made the change in the Public Servants' Unions Act, we've been interviewing social parties for a long time, and we've completed it. Mr. Speaker, if he had any contact with social parties, confederations, if you had asked, you would have had the answer. How many hours, how many days, how many times we've gathered, you could listen very freely from civil society organizations, confederations, issues about compromises, non-compromising issues. You could also learn from them that we have completed our work not only on public officials but also on labour unions, but also on 2821, 2822.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0013par0100	Ten years, ten years! I'm asking, we're working. It's been ten years, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0012par0101	Yes, these arrangements have been completed by our Ministry and are on the agenda of the Council of Ministers. All three laws have been signed.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0013par0102	There are ten drafts.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0012par0103	We also expressed that we are finishing our arrangement for the policy. We're sending this to the Council of Ministers next week. It's just that all the problems with civil servants and our workers and our pensions are our problems. People put that responsibility on us. So we're not just talking about what needs to be done about it, we're on the agenda and we're at the point of solving it for business. As you know, we've postponed the release of statistics until December 31st, and by January 17th at the latest, these laws on labor unions need to be enforced here. We've been working on this calendar. But as you can see, the meeting of the Council of Ministers... we ask our Prime Minister for a cure from Allah. The arrangement for the union legislation to be presented this week could not be made because the Council of Ministers did not take place on Monday. But soon, hopefully, with final assessments of the Council of Ministers, the law will come to Parliament, it will come to the commissions, and it will be legalized with your contributions. There is no draft law. I do not find such an approach correct. Because it means to ignore these arrangements, which have been made in the Ministry and with NGOs for months and have been the product of great labor, which is not a look, but a legitimate demand for this to accelerate, a righteous demand. Let's speed this up together, but I mean, there's no draft, there's no study. A approach like this is not fair to the workers and to the workers who are working on it.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0014par0106	Your promises were not kept, Mr. Secretary, and I'm testifying.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0012par0107	Another thing, here's Law 657. As you know, the State Chief of Staff is also tied to my Ministry. Thus, for years, the arrangement for equal employment has been...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0014par0108	You screwed it up with a warrant under the law.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0012par0109	...you, as friends in union activities, were the demands of all confederations, all NGOs. These demands have been answered. Now that these demands have been answered, of course, as a government, we would expect you to express our gratitude here, even if it were a sentence, because I would like to point out that the expectation of years is an adjustment. Also, I don't know if there are any complaints from the opposition about 657, but the law of the 657, 1960, and there should be an adjustment to this framework, but the general principle is that we never, ever, make the legislation, make the arrangements for the required working life, we do it as a ministry, we do it as a government, we don't do it as a government approach.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0014par0111	It always has been.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0012par0112	Our general opinion is that we sit down with social parties, discuss all matters for days and hours and hours, and then we look for a maximum level of compromise, and then we have a principle that these laws should be sent to Parliament, sent to Parliament. I think it's better to know that, too. Sure, what are we talking about today? We've gone from public speaking about officers to collective agreements. And let's not forget: very recently, before the referendum, there is a blessing in the referendum process. Those who say today: "What a beautiful thing this collective contract is. This is a beautiful change and transformation, a beautiful perspective. Even if it's too late, it's too late for you to come to this.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0015par0115	Bring in the bill, we'll discuss it. Let's see the bill first.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0012par0116	I believe there are some changes in the Constitution, some regulations, which are still waiting for the workers, and I'm expressing them according to the employees' demands. There is also a blessing in the new Constitutional Amendment. You will not be involved in an approach like that until the end of the Constitution changes, where you will continue to exist in both the commission and the General Assembly, and contribute, and we will co-operate in a fundamental constitutional amendment that Turkey has been waiting for.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0015par0118	So we're just gonna wait for the Constitution to change for the law?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0012par0119	Of course, lastly, it's Muharrem. I ask God's mercy on the fellow martyrs, and on this occasion I bless all our martyrs. And thank you, Congressman, for giving us this opportunity, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0016par0121	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Tarhan, you have a request for a statement, please report to the system... Here you go, Tarhan.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0017par0124	Thank you, dear President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0016par0126	No, Mr. Tanal, please don't mind. I opened it as Mr. Tarhan. Mr. Tarhan, please enter the system.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0018par0128	Mr. President, I can't get in because there's a problem here.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0016par0129	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0018par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. Today we think that the Republic of Turkey and Parliament are in fact a black day, my dear President. Because the most powerful tuition of the Republic of Turkey, we think it's the will of the people, and today, eight representatives of the people are under arrest. For Mr Mustafa Balbay, a respected member of this House, representative of the people, Mr. Mustafa Balbay, this is the thousandth day of captivity. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the thousandth day. Not a hundred, not two hundred, but his thousandth day of captivity today. We feel that today, a black mark on our political history, is also a disgrace to a Parliament that can't take care of its own. On this occasion, Mr. President, we are condemning the lengths of imprisonment that have become a serious human rights violation and execution in our country with these black ribbons we put on our collars. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit01spe0019par0138	Thank you, Mr. Tarhan. Congressmans, I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0020par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 26th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is an important inner sea that separates Turkey's parts of Asia and Europe, which we borrow from our future generations of strategic importance as a "water route" connecting the Sea of the Black Sea to the Aegean Sea and the Mediterranean and the seas and the land. Although the entire environment in the world is seen as the only sea remaining within the borders of a country, the Sea of Marmara is seen as a sea that does not need protection or study, the population of various creatures is also a very important treasure, with a habitat that is deep down in its core and is nothing like it. The Sea of Marmara, where the shores of our provinces include Balıkesir, Bursa, Çanakkale, Istanbul, Seipeli, Tekirdağ, and Yalova, is experiencing intense contamination of both land (eternal wastes, industrial discharges, rivers' origins) and marine origin (sources). The environmental threat of this contamination is growing. More than half of these wastes have been released into the sea without decoupling, especially from thousands of industrial institutions in our provinces around the Sea of Marmara. According to recent studies, the amount of heavy metals such as lead zinc, copper, chromium, mercury have reached extremely dangerous levels. ==Early life==A million cubic metres of household waste from Izmit and other surrounding cities, including Istanbul, is being discharged to the Sea of Marmara. Experts say that pollution in the Sea of Marmara is impossible to clean up completely, stressing that the first and most important intervention against pollution is to stop the pollutant entry into the sea. Pollution on top of the burden of the Sea of Marmara has led to a rapid decline in the variety of marine creatures, and has also led to abnormalities that could be expressed as explosions in the fert customs of the existing species (e.g. the high concentration of seaweed in the Gulf of Erdek and Bandirma, or as the increase of the species known as "poison jellyfish" among the people in recent years). A number of studies have shown that many variations in the Sea of Marmara have only dropped to one or two species. Studies have shown that commercially important species have largely disappeared, and oxygen in the water has dropped a lot over the past few years, and in some places it has even shown near zero values. Research in the water of the Sea of Marmara has also shown that the melting oxygen levels fall below the critical level, as well as the fact that the organisms in the water contain biological poisons (especially the cases of mass death in other marine organisms in the bottom fish north of the Gatedagian Peninsula) and even in recent years, our migrating fish from oxygenlessness now appear to be a direct indicator of pollution, as well as a direct indicator of pollution that they are leaving the coastless and unexplorated. In short, the Marmara Sea loses its blueness from day to day, turning green. Oxygen ground approaching zero levels, hundreds of species of fish disappearing. Therefore, the Constitution is 98, 104 and 105 for a comprehensive investigation into the environmental threat to environmental and human health, economic damage and how to repair this threat. In accordance with the clauses, we'd like to submit the requirement for a parliamentary investigation. 09.09.2011 [[Balıkesir]] 2) Aydın Agha Ayaydın [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[İstanbul]] 8) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Inconceived]] [[Mersin]] 13) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Manisa]] [[Mughle]] 16) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] 17) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 18) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 20) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] 22) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 23) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Teachers are the most basic element of our educational system. Although there is a major teaching shortage in our schools, many of our teachers are also known to be unemployed. Our fellow teachers are also deprived of economic and social rights that can sustain human life. By subjecting our teachers to contractual and staffed distinctions, it is also unfair to pay a different fee for the same task. Even the ministry can't give the right numbers on the teacher's deficit. In order to address the turmoil in our national education, to address the physical problems that exist in our schools, to improve the social and economic problems of our teachers, I respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th, TBMM Institution. The lack of medium and long-term education policies in our country has led to serious problems, concepts and numbers debates in the new school year. The Ministry of National Education does not give clear and satisfying explanations, even in matters that need to be known best. Giving different figures on the teacher deficit by the Minister of Education on separate dates is one of the most dramatic examples of this. It is remarkable that there is a big difference between the numbers provided by NGOs related to the ministry and education. In addition to the lack of physical conditions in our schools, economic and social difficulties that our teachers are involved in affect our educational system and our educational quality. According to studies, 46 per cent of our schools have short gardens, 49 per cent are crowded, 52 per cent lack of classrooms, 50 per cent are ranked, table, wood-type hardware, 65 per cent lacks lesson equipment, 70 per cent have no labs or workshops in accordance with the current conditions. The number of students per class is 60 in primary school and 53 in upper secondary schools. In primary school, 5,412 per gym, 3,334 in normal high schools. 66 per cent of the schools have low-maintenance toilets and 72 per cent of them suffer from hygiene problems. 117 students in primary school use a toilet as a partner in the upper secondary schools. In 82 percent of elementary school schools, two-level students and new kids study in the same building. 70 per cent of primary schools, 68 per cent of normal high schools, are bilateral. In addition, three out of four schools (74 per cent) suffer from lack of funds, and schools are able to survive with benefits collected from parents and students (in fees, in contributions) at the beginning of the term. Despite the lack of teachers in half of our schools, there are serious problems with the absence of appointments, the long waiting of graduates, the dignity of the teaching profession and the future of the profession. By subjecting our teachers to contractual and staffed distinctions, different fees are paid for the same task, affecting work peace and efficiency in a negative way. Unfortunately, our national education policy has been transformed into a summer grizzly because of uncertainty during the AKP ruling period. During this period, our national education policy has been sacrificed to the ambition to become staffed in a way that has never been seen in the history of the Republic. One of the most striking examples can be given is the staffing of the Chairman of the Board of Education and Discipline; while there is an experienced 145-seat review specialists on this board, these experts are not assigned to commissions, but to employ teachers who have no experience. For the future of our country and for the development of healthy generations in the world today, it is imperative that our national education policies be reviewed and the deficiencies that exist in the educational system be taken care of. 1) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[Inconceived]] [[Gaziantep]] 8) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Malatya]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Manisa]] 17) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 18) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 19) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Mersin]] 22) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 25) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 27) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Education is the guarantee of our children, of our young people and of our future. It is the government's duty to train our children and our young ones in healthy and secure environments, and it is the responsibility of individuals to do so. In an effort to investigate the causes of violence in our schools and serious dangers such as substance abuse, the measures necessary to prevent these events, the right education policies on this subject, the Constitution, 98. Turkey's Grand National Assembly 104th of the Council of Ministers. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, I respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamentary Research. Violence in our schools and substance abuse are increasing a little more every year. At a younger age, more students become drug addicts. These events in schools and in front of the school affect teachers, guardians, and students deeply. It threatens our young and our country's future, preventing education and teaching from being conducted in a healthy manner. There are many reasons for violence in our schools and the increase in substance abuse. Uncontrollable construction in various settlements -- injustice in the income distribution, poverty, migration, mainly large cities -- is some of the reasons. However, the increase in the number of mafia-like groups can be cited as other reasons for increased unemployment, future anxiety, cultural corruption and alienation; programmes involving the violence of written media and visual media. Resolving the problem is possible with long-term education policies, not by association intervention. Reasons such as the weakening of the social state, the transformation of education into a meta, the inadequacy of the national income, and the lack of the share in education are causing the problem to become increasingly widespread and to become inextricable. As we enter a new school year, researching the causes of violence in our schools, the measures needed to prevent these events, the establishment of correct educational policies on the issue is vital for our country's future. 1) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Inconceived]] [[Tunceli]] [[Gaziantep]] 7) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] 10) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[Adıyaman]] 12) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] [[Mughle]] 15) Bedii Suheyl Batum [[Eskişehir]] 16) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Mersin]] 19) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 20) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 23) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 25) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 26) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. There's a resignation notice from the commission, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning as a member of the European Union Commission for Integration. With all due respect, I'd like to see the matter taken care of. It has been presented to your knowledge. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and submit to your votes. 30.11.2011 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At the Council's 30,11,2011 meeting Wednesday (Today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 24 November 2011, Diyarbakır MP Emine Muhaş and his friends (213 rows) suggested that the Parliamentary Research Council, which was given to the Turkish Parliament to investigate all aspects of the operations carried out under the name of the KCK, be taken ahead of other motions waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, to be read in the presentations Wednesday (30.11.2011) and held in the same date. In favour of the group proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party, the first statement belongs to Diyarbakır MP Emine Mufarah. Here you go, Mr. Mirror. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0021par0218	Mr. President, on 14 April 2009, people were taken into custody, including DTP headquarters executives, local government commissions, and in many cities, including Diyarbakır, as well as people were taken into custody. In the past two years and seven months, more than 5,000 people have been arrested in the province of KCK, such as KCK, Diyarbakır KCK, İstanbul KCK, Batman KCK, Urban KCK, İzmir KCK, Adana, Mersin KCK, Siirt KCK, Mardin KCK, Van KCK, Şırnak KCK, Hakkari, Erzurum KCK, Antep KCK. We've re-elected the headquarters of our arrested party, il-ilce executives, mayors, former and new mayors, women's council, youth council members, neighborhood council members, and they've been arrested. DTP's closed, we've been in BDP, and all our executives have been arrested from the top to the bottom. We chose a new one, he was arrested again. We chose a new one, he was arrested again. That's how it went on. It turns out that the KCK operations will never end; there'll be 5,000; there'll be 10,000; then there'll be 100,000. Until what? In order to answer that question in the interest of the people, it must be revealed what the NEP is, what it was founded by, why it was terrorized, or what it was intended to be terrorized by the judiciary. Answering this as an illegal organization with an armed KCK means leaving all the question marks available to it unresponsive. Well, the answer to the question is: The PKK is already an illegal organization with weapons. If the PKK founded the KCK, why would a second armed illegal organization build it? Many birds are wanted to be shot with one stone, with a cunning plan, with a non-legal political approach to the continuation of the rule-changing status quo mindset. On the one hand, by terrorizing the KCK formation, it appears that the PKK is not directed towards the legal political party and its executives as it moves towards the BDP and its executives to avoid the national and international response that has occurred to them so far. We are not operating on the BDP, we are operating on the KCK. We are operating on the province, the district buildings of BDP. The arrested, executives, mayors, employees, Democratic Society Congress, written and visual media representatives, Human Rights Association, lawyers, trade unionists, academics, thousands of people working in civil society. There are so many and so many institutions and people accused of terrorism. This Parliament must not remain silent in the face of this. With so many institutions and so many people involved, alone, it's enough to do research. This multiplicity should lead the House to doubt and questioning. This study must begin with the study of how the indictment was prepared, the way it was taken, the reason for the long arrest, the discovery of the financial and spiritual damage suffered by institutions and individuals. Most importantly, this process is in need of enlightenment. This lighting should be done by the Clave. Such a case is not available anywhere in the world, including people and institutions organized in all social areas. To be terrorised is the will and institutionalisation of Kurds by their own identity. It is an effort to achieve concreteness through practical efforts such as free municipalism, democratic politics, democratic autonomy, women's-youngness parliaments, political academys, civil society organisations, coordination, congresses, conferences. No one on trial in this case has ordered violence, such as burn, destroy, and kill! In any phone call to the indictment, in any image, there is not a single word, a single claim, that Turkey wants to be divided in any of its evidences, the independent Kurdistan ideal. How is that divisive? Although it is a universal right to demand individual and collective rights and freedoms, it is considered a crime to fight and organize this democratic struggle. It is the truth of the Kurdish people terrorised under the name TK, the demand for education in the native language. So, how are people going to address and organize their demands, create public opinion, promote their activities, their ideas that they believe in? We're looking to build a political, moral, democratic society instead of a nation's understanding of state, through social, cultural, political work. We're trying to create a method of participation management. That's what's being terrorized, this model of political organization that's being feared. If democratic society turns democratic political philosophy into a social general acceptance, it will now question the people of Turkey's national state understanding; it will replace monogamy with pluralism, and the participation of the ruling hegemony. The main issue of the CK indictment is our local election work on March 29th. Everything from the method of running to our election propaganda is considered a crime. We form the local government commission, the election commission; we elect the commissioners among the active members. We give this commission the authority to put our municipalities in charge of social, political control and in front of them. In the event they overstep their authority, our party's authority shall enforce their sanctions. This organizational model of ours does not have the authority to oversee or judge our commissions, nor does it have the executive body or the judicial body. But that's what it's all about. By order of the administration of our labour commissions and how they will operate, the judiciary has interfered, although it has no right to do so. This party has co-chairs, MYK, and PM, which tells or intervenes in how to identify candidates. If the party's executive organs haven't interfered, then the method of running for candidates has been approved by the central and co-chairs. This is never the work of the judiciary and the government. Especially when we're cleaning up the government's BDP, we're saving them. It's the utter confession of lawlessness, the inability of political approach. From the founding of monotheism and the mindset that ignores differences, the official ideology of the state today has been disconnected from history and the reason for today's outcome. The Kurdish separatist, leftist-socialists who strive to be organized with their historical basis for political identity are destructive, the Alevis are secular, the Sunni Muslims are branded in the form of a lawmaker, repressed by force and violence, this country has always been governed by provocations. Once upon a time, if you remove the turban, there was no problem with the turban. There was a power that said, "It was a political and social substructure which denied its political and social structure." They said, "Put it on at home, put it on in the street, but not in public. " The headscarf problem is in power today. Now they don't if you don't think about the Kurdish problem. Purge the Kurdish identity, become a Turk; the Kurdish problem will be gone. They say. The same approach that does not see the Kurdish identity as the cause of the Kurdish problem, which ignores this identity as denial; the geographical, historical, political, and social infrastructure. Especially the same sentence: "Talk in Kurdish on the street at home, not in public space." In some environments where we discuss the Kurdish problem, war and peace, democratic solutions, the phrase is often expressed: "You are right, you have the right to ask for freedom of identity and your native tongue, but in this century you must not seek weapons rights." Or, "The Clave is the solution, so don't look elsewhere." We don't use the weapon as a tool in our struggle for freedom, but we're being terrorized. Why? Yes, we have objections to the political and administrative construction of the Republic of Turkey. The Republic of Turkey lacks the qualities of being a republic. Having the President and the Assembly doesn't make it a republic. It's not democratic. Yes, we want to change this political and administrative structure, and we're trying to implement both the intellectual and the practical organisation. We're trying to create an organizational model with the public councils, with the city councils, with the Democratic Society Congress, with the People's Democratic Congress. Why is all this being terrorized? Let us give you the answer: The problem of their government, shaped according to the official ideology of the Republic of Turkey, is not what you use in fighting for freedom, in seeking rights, or in opposition; the problem is what you demand. If what you're thinking, what you're saying, what you're organizing, if it's against monogamy and status quo official ideology, you're a terrorist. That's the approach. The KCK case operation is not just a judicial issue, it's not a legal problem; it's a re-war, a repeat loss of life, a relapse of instability. It means condemning Turkey to monogamy, fanatical; to regression, which is confronted by the whole world, which does not accept the other. Turkey's Grand National Assembly must intervene in this situation, research in all aspects of this political operation, which will set the date for Turkey to be written. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0022par0235	Thank you, Mr. Mirror. The first word against the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal is from Mr. Ramadan Can. Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0023par0239	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the group's proposal for the Peace and Democracy Party. I hereby salute your delegation. The group proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party is a motion contrary to the rulings of the Constitution and the law. Because there is no interference in the ongoing judicial process in Article 138 of the Constitution. The Court is independent of Article 138, and no one can advise or advise judges. Judges decide according to the law, the Constitution, and their conscience. If there's a problem with the application, if it's a problem with management, it's an objection to the prosecution. If a procedure by the prosecutor's office is against the law, appeals to judges and courts. On the other hand, the judge and the court have the authority to object to a higher level if the verdict is not appreciated. After all, the decision is a judicial decision, a legal decision. Mr. President, the high-ranking lawmakers are said to be the reason for the group's proposal by the Party of Peace and Democracy: ▪14 mayors, 6 MPs, senior officials of the Peace and Democracy Party, the party's top officials have been arrested and taken into custody. Will all these people be taken into custody or arrested? Mr. President, good lawmakers, if a crime is committed, everyone is equal before the law, before the Constitution. No one's politics, no one's presence in a certain position, will give him the privilege of committing a crime, and it won't. As a result, they have been arrested, and there have been objections to the arrest. Objections have been denied by the court. They've given us a reason for how long the operations under the name TK will last, and since they understand from our Prime Minister's statements, it'll last forever. We don't know how long this is gonna take. Those who violate the Law know how long it will last; those who violate the Constitution know that the judiciary, the prosecutor's office, is aware of it.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0024par0244	Since the Prime Minister has made the decision, the Prime Minister will know how long it will take. Ask the Prime Minister how long it'll take.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0023par0245	If there's a breach, if the breach continues, of course the law enforcement, the prosecution and the judiciary will do their duty. No one should expect an intervention in the judiciary from power. We don't have that kind of authority anyway. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are also said to be an armed organization of the PKK. They're asking us what the KCK is, what kind of organization it is, why it was founded. We shouldn't be the ones to answer that question, but you should know better than we do. As a result, the answer to that question will be revealed in the dimension of judgment. Let the judge do his duty. As a result, let's all wait for the outcome of the trial of the Constitution and the law in the state of law. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, if there's a configuration within the state, if there's a search for a new state within the Constitution and the law, and if there's a way to create an alternative to the state within the state, of course it will be addressed, no one will be disturbed. We rely on independent judgment, and everyone has to trust it. Between August 14th 2009 and November 22, 2011, it was referred to as the arrest of mayors, politicians, lawmakers. We, in particular, declare that we should wait for the judgment of the independent judiciary to decide on this matter. On the other hand...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0025par0249	You're always repeating yourself. Say some different things, please, Mr. Orator, don't keep repeating the same things.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0023par0250	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers should be identified as detentions, arrests, illegal practices, attacks, physical harm. We say, of course, that these should be identified, that they'll be investigated, that we'll leave it to the state of law. On the other hand, the group proposal for the BDP again requires information about the KCK configuration. The political academy has established organisational training centres under the direction of its terrorist leader. The political academy, established under instructions, is also part of the science lighting committee and is intended to prepare ideologically trained staffs under the 14th article of the organisation.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0026par0252	I thought you weren't interfering with the judgment!
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0023par0253	In the countryside, all training activities of the PKK organisation are incompatible with lectures taught at political academys. Again, according to the terrorist leader's statement... I'm reading his statement from October 25, 2009: I've been saying that schools should be opened for Kurds for years. They don't even do that, even though I told them the academy needs to be opened. DTP will have to raise thousands, tens of thousands of staff. Why don't they do it? Because their theoretical cognitive levels aren't enough. If they want to succeed, they have to raise tens of thousands of people. I'm also reading the statement of a senior official from the organization: the independent Kurdistan revolutionary civil war can be built -- pay attention, friends -- the guerrillas raised from political academys will be actively involved in this war. KCK is a state-run configuration against the law. As a result, we'll all wait, we'll all see, we'll all respect the decision. Therefore, we do not accept the motion. It says we're going to vote against it, and I salute your grand delegation again, and I thank you all.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0027par0258	Thank you, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0028par0259	Mr. President, the Minister has reflected the research motion in a different way, referring to the Constitution of 138. We'd like to make a statement about that.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0027par0260	Here you go. You have three minutes.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0028par0262	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, my friends, according to the 138th article of the Constitution, no office, institution, institution, should be brought to justice by the institution, advice and guidance, and it is a constitutional crime. Do we agree on that? Well, then why did Mr. Prime Minister say that the KCK investigations would continue, that I would continue the arrests? Isn't that an intervention in judgment? If the Prime Minister, the head of the government, says so, isn't that an intervention in the judiciary? We'll look into it, guys. Here's another thing: we were all present at the geneorization talks. The Home Secretary himself mentioned the number 453 when we told him more than 8,000 arrests and more than 4,500. I just put a list of 450 female prisoners here in front of the Home Secretary. Well, wasn't that the Home Secretary who said, "If necessary, I'll arrest all those numbers?" Isn't that an intervention in judgment, fellas? They have privileges? When they speak, it is in accordance with the Constitution; when they speak, when private courts appoint the judge they want, it is in accordance with the Constitution, when they appoint the prosecutor they want, it is in accordance with the Constitution, when they make the police do what they want. Friends, there's a great deal of good in investigating this, the democracy of Turkey, that peace depends on it. Look, there's been an arrest warrant issued on 47 lawyers. It is said that they were taking instructions from the Empire. There is a statement in the press today, Karayalan. Please, all of you, look at the Internet news, and there's an interesting claim here that ten government officials from İmralı have delivered their letters to us, saying that we have them.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0029par0266	It's the government, you got it wrong!
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0028par0267	Look, it's Karayalan's statement today. Postmen of ten letters don't interfere, they don't instruct, but the defense attorney does, right? There is another claim in 2006, one Saturday in 2006, on a holiday day, the government's official, the manager, and the lawyer who was arrested for this area, went to İmralı. Shouldn't we look into this? Doesn't our people have a right to what's going on, the Oslo meeting, the Kandil meeting, the Imralı meeting? If there are 200,000 soldiers on the border and it hurts so much, don't the House have the right to investigate? Are we going to deal with a zucchini in Parliament, not deal with Turkey's real problems? Then I'm telling you, don't let the government interfere. Let's do it. Let the government respond to these allegations. Please...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0030par0271	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. In favour of the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, the second word is Mr. Bedii Süheyl Batum of Eskişehir MP. Here you go, Mr. Batum.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0031par0274	Mr. President, I have received a pledge in favor of a motion to investigate due to KCK operations. Because I want to talk about long, unfair, unfair imprisonments that have become a common problem in Turkey. Besides, today is the thousandth day of the arrest of one MP in long, unfair, unjust imprisonment. Dear friends, indeed it is very painful for all of us to be in a country where these long, unjust and unjust imprisonments continue, and they become common practice, and it is very painful for all of us to be in a country where these were made in the name of advanced democracy and tried to legitimize, but it is still very painful for all of these journalists to be arrested by one minister, or one of them, or two of them, to be tried to justify themselves. If all of them were arrested, we would have looked at if all of them had been arrested, one of them were arrested. Dear friends, the subject of imprisonment has become a problem where all trials continue as prisoners and, unfortunately, the attempt to produce evidence during imprisonment is no longer a wound that is bleeding the conscience of society; Turkey has become a problem that quickly reverts Turkish law to the Middle Ages period and the Middle Ages law. Prisoners turned into prisoners, turned into hostages. We saw it in military coups, in times of oppression, 90 days of detention, three-and-a-half years of imprisonment, so-called advanced democracy, we returned to this terrible practice in the legal system where power was appointed, the power was appointed, and the people were punished. Dear friends, the European Court of Human Rights, we always talk, we always say, we always talk when it comes to our work, and when it doesn't work out for us, I'm talking about the European Court of Human Rights you call the European Court of Human Rights. He says: "What are the conditions of being arrested in a legal state, and what is the duration of the arrest? We all know -- we all know -- I want to stress it in particular -- at least in history, because there were those who tried to eliminate them in this Parliament, and there were those who criticized them, so that they would be brought up in history, and for our children. In the sentence trial, imprisonment is an exception. It says, "It is limited for a reasonable period." It says: ▪ National judicial bodies, or courts, have to evaluate very well the conditions that will justify the state of imprisonment when they deprive one person of his freedom or determine the continuation of the arrest. Moreover, he says: "Look, dear friends, even if there is a good chance that the person being arrested may have committed the alleged crime, it is only a prerequisite for his arrest. " It is not enough by itself to continue the arrest, for the judicial body to find new reasons and reasons, he says. In fact, it is continuing, notice that the danger of escaping as a republic, or the weight of the punishment predicted by the law, is not enough for the continuation of imprisonment alone. Who says that? The European Court of Human Rights, which says that advanced democracies, such as the Republic of Turkey, which we say is a democracy, are the judicial body. It's not that you guys don't know it, dear friends, we all know it, but for the record, I'm just saying. Because some of these long detentions, the ministers, we haven't arrested them all, we've arrested a few people, let them go on. I'm just saying, let's go back to the date when some people object. Then our children, my dear, were not aware of history in the future, so that they might not be able to tell us how to intervene in judgment. At least on that day they will not be able to make excuses. Dear friends, dear friends, the lawmakers are saying one more thing. Look, he says the same thing: it is imperative that there be sufficient evidence, additional evidence, grounds, information, to make it clear whether there is a danger of escape or whether the continuation of imprisonment is necessary. This is not enough to justify the continuation of imprisonment, he says. Says who? He says it's the judicial body of European democracies. Who's it for? He's singing for the judges of the ruling judiciary. Dear friends, this is what he's saying, today's detentions are three years, three and a half years in prison. And unfortunately, it's going on with tragic events. You know Mehmet Ali Çelebi, a young lieutenant. He was arrested for 18 months. Why? For 138 recordings on your phone. 18 months later, those records turned out to be fabricated evidence. I'm sorry we did this... I'm sorry. It's not even that, we can decide that you're going to be released now. There's another one. Look, it's a motion from our congressman, our dear friend Ugur Bayraktutan. And underneath, he wrote down why he said it. Look, from one person's statement: ▪ When I got sick, they took me to the doctor, to the hospital. When I finished my examination, I sat down and waited for them to pick me up. Hours passed, and there was no sound, and they forgot about me. I got in a car and came to Silivri, and I paid for the cab out of my pocket. Astonishing who was left behind in the hospital, taking a taxi, going to Silivri, and the judges are making their decisions, judges of the ruling judiciary: ▪ The danger of escape has not passed. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, today is the thousandth day of the arrest of a friend of ours, a friend of ours, an MP, and we say that all of their arrests are saying one more thing as we determine these long, permanent, unjust imprisonments. In particular, we are opposed to all unjust imprisonments -- permanent, this way unfair -- unfortunately, we are against all of them, but we are speaking in a country where eight lawmakers of opposition lawmakers are under arrest, and we say: These are the principles that have come out of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, the United Nations Human Rights Committee. Arresting lawmakers by disregarding the voter's will is preventing the MP from taking the law into law. Over two years and an uncertain process of imprisonment, a thousand days of arrests, a clear sentence of imprisonment. Long-term arrests violate the European Convention on Human Rights, as well as all universal human rights contracts. The continuation of imprisonment with facts that have no basis for fiction or without concrete evidence is a serious violation of the rights of innocence, a violation of the rights of character. And what kind of country, dear friends? In one town of this country, the judge is sentenced to over three months of imprisonment in the case of the Lighthouse. While in another town, the detention period lasted three years, three and a half years, or four years in other cities. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This situation needs to be investigated, fixed, at least noted in history. We, in favor of this motion, have made a motion to investigate such situations. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0032par0292	Thank you, Mr. Batum. Izmir MP Ali Ashık against the Peace and Democracy Group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Ashy.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0033par0296	Mr. President, members of the Council, I have made a pledge against the group proposed by the Peace and Democracy Party. The state of the Republic of Turkey is a state of law. Our constitution has divided the state into three separate men as legislation, executive and judiciary. Therefore, he will act as a lawmaker, and he will act as a judge, and he will act as a ruler.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0034par0298	Recep Erdogan will do it all, won't he?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0033par0299	Dear friends, Turkey is taking serious steps towards becoming a state of law.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0034par0300	It didn't.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0033par0301	But we're here to correct the glitches. Guys, he sent us here to fix the limp parts. So...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0035par0302	Let's not fix it. Let's keep it that way. You're fucking up!
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0033par0303	The House has been opened, and we've been dealing with the pear stem and the grape's garbage. So the first thing we're going to do in Turkey is change the Constitution, friends, even if we assume there's some merit to what you're saying. So... every time you come up here, what you say is, why aren't the arrested MPs released? Dear friends, as long as the 14th Article of the Constitution remains there, where does the judge get his powers? He takes it from the law. E, as long as there is this decree in the Constitution, even if those friends are evacuated, they will be taken away when they are sentenced tomorrow. So, if there's something bothering our conscience, let's sit down and restructure the Constitution in accordance with its universal legal values, free of the ruins of September 12th.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0036par0304	The 14th Amendment law hasn't been passed in ten years, it hasn't been passed in ten years.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0037par0305	Are you confessing?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0033par0306	Dear friends, speaking on behalf of the Republican People's Party, our dear friend spoke of the judges of power. For one thing, there is no such thing as a magistrate in the state of law. For one thing, that understanding is against the understanding of the state of law. There's no point in clouding our minds with 24 Constitutions and 61 Constitutions. This is one step ahead, even in the Constitution of September 12th. So, dear friends, we, this Parliament, with the constitutional amendment and the support of our nation before September 12th, have changed many articles of the Constitution, and with this change, judges have now become the judges who choose their own promotions, who will appoint themselves. So, now, you have to keep the power out of this guilt. There's no way we're getting anywhere with old habits, old sayings. Dear friends, if there is a mistake, if the judgment is making a mistake, then the judgment is now in itself to correct it.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0038par0309	I'm the prosecutor. Isn't that the Prime Minister?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0039par0310	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0033par0311	He's not going to choose who did the wrong thing in the next HSYK election. Because over 12,000 judges will choose. We ignore it, we ignore it. We can't ignore that.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0040par0312	What will happen if they are all in the same congregation?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0033par0313	BDP also asks how long will these arrests, these operations last? If Turkey is a state of law, it shouldn't be asked, because it's a judgment.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0041par0314	It's not the legal government. If it was a legal government, there wouldn't be any arrests.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0033par0315	The judge will answer that. But we're doing politics. Dear friends, in anything that disturbs the public conscience, we, the AK PARTY, do not have the chance to be on the side that disturbs the public conscience, nor do we. We represent the common sense of society.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0042par0316	Doesn't it bother your conscience if you're arrested in one day?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0033par0317	Serap Eser, Houses of Nargis, Houses of Zeynep, Nurcan Olgaç, Kevserjet, were killed, innocently, murdered, and in an environment where thousands of such people wait in blood and tears, you have no right to say, "Why are you doing this?" Nor do you have a conscience, nor do you have a law.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0043par0318	What's that got to do with anything? What does it have to do with the mayors of BDP?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0044par0319	Lawmakers, mayors, female representatives, youth, what's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0033par0320	So we'll vote against it. So, we're on the side of the law, we're on the universal constitution, we're on the side of the law state. If there's been a mistake, we'll discuss it here. But here I'm thinking, how do we make living a better quality, let's discuss it first. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0045par0323	Thank you, Mr. Ashy. I submit the Peace and Democracy Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0046par0326	Dear President, I'd like to take a word with you about the procedure. There's not enough of a decision here. It's a violation of the law. Oh, please, this can't be happening.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0045par0328	I wish you'd asked for a sufficient number of decisions, Congressman.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0046par0329	Look, but count it.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0045par0330	In fact, if you had asked for a decision, we would have counted it.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0046par0331	Sir, I mean, you're not looking!
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0045par0332	Look, you're talking all wrong.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0046par0333	Look, I'm sorry, my dear President, there's a saying in the law...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0045par0334	Ask Mr. Tarhan, ask him, find out.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0046par0335	I'm sorry, but the opposite of something known to everyone can't be proven. Known or unknown by you?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0045par0337	There's procedures, there's rules, you're gonna want them.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0046par0338	Order doesn't mean to chew, my dear President, please...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0045par0339	My dear Congressman, you should have asked me instead of yelling at me. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will resume negotiations with the Turkish Republic's Government and the New Zealand Government, where we left off with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, where it is appropriate to ratify the Agreement between the Government of Turkey and the New Zealand Government. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Turkish Parliament Speaker Cemil Cicek, Turkish Parliament Speaker Cemil Cicek, Deputy Chairs Kayseri MP Sadik Yakut and Kahramanmarash MP Mehmet Sütın, Turkey's Supreme Assembly Chairman's Executive Service Act and the Plan and Budget Commission Report. Commission? Here. The government, the House? Here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed by 83 rows. Members of parliament, this proposal will be considered as the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, after negotiations on all of the proposal have been agreed to be completed and passed on to its articles, it will be discussed in sections, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan has been asked to speak on the whole proposal. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0047par0357	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group regarding Parliamentary Code 83. I salute you all. This bill is the House's own business. Then, in order to avoid criticism as if the tailor couldn't sew the wheel, you have to take very good care of it, to study it very well, because it's a bill that designes the Parliament's work, the personnel law, the whole thing. In December 2009, the Council Council was formed at the time from four parties, and we took part in one study, and there was one member of each party group. A report has been published as the Executive Capacity of the National Assembly of Turkey, and I don't know, it should have been sent to all MPs. You're going to see some very important flaws in this because it's a little bit of a European Union-backed SIGMA Acquainted Report. I'd like all my friends to read this because it's been done after a really deep study. Again, you know, there's a Civil Code Commission in Congress, just like the Constitutional Compromise Commission, consisting of four parties. Now, there's a draft of the Civil Charter Commission, which consists of these four parties, and then there's the Constitutional Compromise Commission. I mean, the Constitution will be restored, the law of the House will be established there. The Civil Charter will be restored, and the internal functioning of the House will be redefined. But after that, if this proposal of the law had been discussed, it would have been permanent. I mean, it's an offer that, unfortunately, is doomed to change in a very short period of time. I'll tell you something else that's interesting. He had our attention as a lawyer. Now, we didn't take part in the subcommittee because we weren't at the swearing-in ceremony, but as BDP, we were able to join Plan and Budget on the next major commission. While this proposal is being discussed there, the Court of Law 666 shall issue a decree, which I draw your attention to, and shall make arrangements on matters that are under the authority of the Parliamentary Presidency under Article 95 of the Constitution. Now, every man who comes up here talks, power separation, judgment, execution, living. Is this really like this? Is that how it works? Is that what life is like? This is not the case, as Parliamentary President negotiates his proposal, and on October 4th, on the lower commission, on November 2nd, the government issued a decree and intervenes. Friends, what we need to talk about here is the independence of the law that needs to be defended. Is he independent of the law, will he make his own internal affairs, his own work independent, will he be in charge, will he be in charge, or will the administration intervene in every channel? Or when you're trying to live in a different way here, doing your legislature, will the judiciary be part of the law, or what? There are 367 decisions in the past, 414 decisions, that happened. (x) 83 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Now, we think that we are being rushed in terms of procedure in this agency's law, because in a year's time, this Constitution would have been the work of the Civil Code, and it would have been permanent if this agency's law had been carried out according to it. Now, we see that this isn't the case, but what's interesting is that there's something else going on in Congress that's called Ozlik, Staff, Secretary General, who's changing the name of Secretary General... Did you take good care of that offer? The Secretary General is turning into a presidential office, but it's got some very interesting presidential offices in it. If you look a little carefully, there's a desk table in the back. If you look at this desk table, you'll see very well who your colleagues are. For example, you have friends, the Palace Manager. Have you been to the palaces, fellow councillors? Now, I'm asking Mr. President... isn't Mr. Speaker here?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0048par0366	No.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0049par0367	Mr. Deputy Speaker is here.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0047par0368	Where?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0049par0369	He's sitting here, Mr. Yakut.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0047par0370	Mr. President, isn't the Dolmabahçe Palace the National Palace of Parliament?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0050par0371	Your coven.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0047par0372	Your coven. So why does the head of the administration use it as a work office, why does the House use it as a work office to run a place that belongs to the legislature?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0050par0373	The Presidential Court has a decision to make.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0047par0374	Look, did you guys know there's a factory manager in the House? Well, you don't know that either. If you look at this a little bit more, you'll find something more interesting, but there's something here that we need to be realistic about, and there's something that we need to focus on in essence. Although this Parliament came with the highest representation. We say, "There are 85 percent representations here." Remember, we're talking about a 24th-century Assembly that came after an election with a 10 percent dam electoral system. Here, the 24th-century Assembly has not been met with 550 MPs from 85 neighborhoods, 8 MPs are missing. He's under arrest for the TK case, over two and a half years, six of our BDP MPs are under arrest. Two CHP's friends told me today, Balbay's thousandth day of prison is over. His thousandth anniversary will be written by history as the first Parliament to live on the thousandth day of prison for a member of parliament in an interesting way. I'm surprised at the MHP, for one day, he's a prisoner of ours. Have you forgotten your friend?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0051par0375	I'll tell you in a minute.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0047par0376	Now, eight MPs are under arrest. There's the Agency Act, there's MPs' rights, there's consultants, there's secretaries, there's employees, there's servants, there's 4/C, there's 4/B, there's everybody. Since parliament opened, since June 12th -- we are entering December -- 8 lawmakers have not acted in equity law, 8 lawmakers can't get paid, 8 lawmakers can't get consultants, 8 MPs can't get secretaries, their rooms are empty, there's no one at the head. Why, did you ask that, why? We don't get involved in judgment, is that judgment? It's not a judgment. It's not a judgment. The House doesn't run the autonomy law because they don't swear. What's that like? It's like a tailor can't sew on his own. So a judicial decision doesn't interfere with the oath. Let them not swear judgment. He does not say, but decrees imprisonment. In the matter of the oath of justice, he says: "It is an oath of administrative protection. " How, you know, there is a permit law for prisoners and prisoners. Other than that, the House has the Presidential Court. He'd go... there's a company leader in history. He went to prison, where the registrar's office of the vice president had satisfied the lack of an oath ceremony. It's a figure thing, guys. It's a shape thing. Let him go, another formula is developed, and he's gone. It's a legal arrangement, and it's not there. It's the Speaker, nothing. After that, we will make the law of an organization that cannot uphold the law of its own members. It's sad. This painting is a disgrace to democracy. We're talking about a coven with eight MPs in handcuffs. Sometimes our friends here say, "But there were 14th Amendments. There are lawyers in all parties here, and I'll tell you this: the 14th article has not even been applied, not even in the time of the DeP MPs, my friends. There came the proceedings, the Constitution went to the Justice Karma Commission, negotiations were held in parliament, defences were taken, and then it was decided, the Constitutional process, objections, debates were over. This is the case in 94, despite this severe decree of the Constitution of the 14th Amendment. The Constitution was changed in Article 14 (2001) because of the European Union's compliance laws, and this clause was softened. So, I want all my fellow lawyers to read the last joke of this clause, the last joke of Article 14 of the Constitution, and it says: "The 2001 amendment: this inclusion of crime and its elements is determined by a law." What does that mean, friends? There's gonna be a law on this. Is that the law? For nine years -- a year ago the AK PARTI period -- has not been passed in ten years, but it's been enforced in Turkey. There's a law facing a law that enforces a law that doesn't apply. The law has immunity, my lawmakers have immunity, you can't keep my lawmakers inside, there's immunity law on the 14th Amendment. But the last joke was that I couldn't do it, I couldn't do it, I couldn't do it, I couldn't get the law out of dealing with contracts. So the tender law has changed twenty times, and there is no law on identifying and identifying these crimes in the 14th article, but this law is now applied to 8 MPs. Now, in a council that can't uphold the law of its own member, can you do a healthy legislature process? There are four party groups in this healthy legislative process, is a parliamentary activity democratic that four parties do not participate in? Look, you made a motion yesterday until the end. You said, we went home with the morning prayer, didn't we, my friends? Bedelli is a soldier... and this will not end in the morning of the -69th article -- so you will not sleep, you will not sleep, you will not eat, you will sit here like a pump, hands will be up, hands will be down, you will call it a parliamentary regime, democracy, and democracy -- you will call it democracy. It's democracy, it's democracy, it's democracy, it's not living, friends. This isn't a democracy. It's a very dangerous approach, not healthy. The healthy work of this Assembly is shaped by the participation of opposition in parliamentary democracy. Do you have any idea how our General Securities downloads law proposals? I've been a law-breaker for four years, and in four years, no law proposal has landed on the commission. The authorities are not given in the evening, they are given at the hour, they come down at the hour. There's a clause called the 37th Amendment in the Civil Code, where new friends from the opposition should take a good look at it, it had an app yesterday. We write laws that don't land in a certain amount of time, download them directly to the Secretary General, directly to Congress, pre-interviewed. Now, in this study, to whom does the Court work? To the Speakership. Who's he checking for? The Speakership. Where's the Court? Isn't he in the Supreme Court, friends, in that building, by the judge, with the judge? So, if the Court has a secret regulation, if the audit is removed from performance control, if it is brought into another form of control, if you cannot oversee Turkish Armed Forces and security spending, on behalf of Parliament, what happens if you set up the law of the Court that works for you here, and you don't? Look, while the Court's Law is being discussed, I've asked for a secret regulation before the Secretary General of the Court. We have friends from the Budget Commission here, Mr. Kalayci, Aslanoglu. Didn't the Secretary General of the Court say that on that day in the Commission, Mr. Hasip, I couldn't reach that secret regulation either? Now, the secret regulations that the Court's Secretary-General can't reach don't come to me, and I don't know as an MP, nor does the Secretary-General, and now there's a new 14-point secret regulation. (x) In these chapters, some words were expressed by the Minister in a non-English language. Now, how will this Court of Parliament control it? How's spending, judging, red tape, military, all over the place? He can't. The parliamentary groups are being excluded from the process. It's a separate issue, work is one thing, but even in the European Union reports -- 2010 -- there's not a lot of bright grades about us, there's crack marks, there's knockoffs in the classroom, guys. What's he saying? The tension between political parties and the government, the lack of spirit of reconciliation and the tension between the main political institutions, the lack of consensus, election dams, immunity, judicial process, the anxiety process. We read about our Parliament in the Progress Report. Again, there are no staff and administrative councils. Again, in this draft, for example, there are four parliamentary groups, a group of vice presidents, nothing. The House has no ethics laws on its own work. We're talking about a Parliament without ethics laws. He hasn't been in the House in time. We have no ethics. And I'll tell you something else, I'm walking around, and you're seeing it. Look, all the employees, the stenographers are here, the cavasses are here, and when you go backstage, there's the servants, they stay up with us, they do the same thing in the morning, they do the same thing in the morning. I'm asking you, what is your position? How many years have you been working? Fifteen years. Have fear of God, would a Parliament do this to its own employee? Isn't it cruel to employ this persecution with 15 years of temporary labor status in your own House, 15 years of seasonal labor, 4/C staff? All party groups against this persecution need to come together and come up with a solution here. If he works for ten years, fifteen years, you'll put him on permanent staff, if he can't do it, if there's no merit, if there's no service, if there's no discipline, you'll end it. You're glad you worked for 15 years. Now, for God's sake, go to this restaurant, go to the park, go to the workers, and touch one of the two people who work the same shift, or even do the harder work, you'll see that they get three times more than one of them. That's not fair, guys. If Congress is going to protect equity law, personnel law, it has to be fair. I don't hold the only ruling party responsible here. The Agency Act is responsible for all of us, the entire House, and four groups. If we don't all get through this, if we don't figure it out, we'll all carry the burden of it together. I say we figure this out. Let's figure this out. Yeah, well, there's a lot to say about that, and I've got a lot of technical stuff in writing, but it's going to be in progress. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Hopefully, it'll be good. We'll support it with motions. We'll try to fix it, fix your humps. I say we work together, fix it together. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0052par0396	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. He spoke on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu on behalf of Republican People's Party Group.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0053par0400	Mr. President, I give all of you my regards. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we're doing the agency's law on our legislature. Of course, the legislature means the rule of law, an organ that first dominates it. Of course, first of all, here in Turkey, we should never discuss the rule of law and the rule of law. Today is the thousandth day of Mr. Balbay....of our arrested MPs and these MPs....and he has been in prison for a thousand days. Dear lawmakers, in this country, the Deputy Prime Minister, says in the Plan and Budget Commission: I regret them. I have no objection to the arrest of arrested MPs. And it says, "Look at the authorities, Mr. Arinc Plan and Budget, whatever day you want me to distribute it, the nation has put a mortgage on its will. Enter Plan and Budget reports, see, that's the exact expression. In this country, the people have the will, but judges say they have put up a mortgage on the will of the nation. Then I don't understand. Where am I? A Deputy Prime Minister in this country says that, but we're still here looking for law. It breaks our hearts to think of it as a coven that doesn't own its own law, my friends. One thousandth day... My dear friends, what does the High Election Board do? If a congressman doesn't have an election license, then why is he asking us for documents? The D.A. wants a degree, he wants a soldier. He can't be a congressman. He's been sent back. How do you interpret this if he allows these MPs to run for office? Here, people, destroying your will will will bring great harm to all of us tomorrow, to this country. Unfortunately, folks, we don't have the will here. Of course, the main thing about having this Assembly is the whole of democracy, the essential political parties and political party groups. The political party rules this House. The red tape can't run this coven. The true judge of the legislature of this House is political party groups. But with the political party groups, the Parliament Speaker's Court will run everything in parliament, friends, but first you will recognize the political party groups; elected, by the will of the people -- if in some way he has described in the current Constitution, if he has formed a group that will form a party that will get as many MPs as this -- if he has appointed a member of the Parliament's Presidential Court, the Parliament will run this Court. First, the House must take care of itself. If he's somehow unable to get his own work published, it can't be called the legislature, my friends. (HPP applause) Parliament cannot act on the instructions of the TRT (TRT) or of any other institution. We've done this protocol with TRT, and it's like this, and it can't say that. The Parliament should be proud to present all its work, all its function, group talks, and all other work to the public's knowledge. The House can't withhold its work from the will of the people. Where is the will of the people, where is the will of the people? If you, the Parliament, are missing the work of political party groups from the will of the public, then this Parliament is not doing its duty to legislate.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0054par0406	You are the last to speak of it, and you are the last to speak of the will of the people.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0053par0407	I'll talk, you listen. Who respects the will of the people, the will of the people...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0054par0408	You're the one who threw out the congressman here.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0053par0409	You shut up and sit there... Shut up and sit there...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0054par0411	You threw out the congressman.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0053par0412	Shut up and sit there...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0054par0413	You threw the congressman out of here.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0053par0414	Shut up and sit there! The will of the people...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0055par0416	You can't disrespect the congressman.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0053par0417	Shut up! You'll shut up. Mr. Metiner, you'll know how to listen.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0056par0419	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0057par0420	Don't be disrespectful.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0053par0421	You'll know how to listen.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0056par0422	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0057par0423	Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0056par0424	Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0058par0425	You'll know how to listen.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0057par0426	Learn how to speak.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0058par0427	If you don't know how to listen, you'll learn to listen.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0057par0428	You can't talk to a congressman by giving instructions.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0059par0429	Mr. President, shut him up.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0060par0430	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0061par0431	You'll learn to listen.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0062par0432	Sit down.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0060par0433	Mr. Aslanoglu, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0061par0434	You'll learn to listen.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0062par0435	It's over now.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0061par0436	Learn to listen.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0063par0437	Dear Metiner, please...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0061par0438	Every day you'll know to listen first, not to talk to people here.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0064par0439	Talk to your literature.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0063par0440	Mr. Aslanoglu, please... Dear Metiner, please...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0065par0442	Yeah, you'll know how to listen. Learn to listen first.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0066par0443	You can't instruct a congressman.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0065par0444	If he talks like that, I'll tell him.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0067par0445	Dear Metiner, please...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0065par0446	I'll talk to him. You'll know how to listen, you'll know how to listen. If you don't know how to listen, you're not gonna sit there.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0068par0448	Are you a bully?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0065par0449	I'll be outside, I'll be here, it's people's will.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0068par0450	Then get out.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0065par0451	I'll be outside, yeah, I'll be outside, come on.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0069par0452	Metiner, what are you challenging?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0065par0453	It's people's will that I be here. Here, I have a lot of respect in public.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0070par0454	You'll have to behave.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0065par0455	I'm very well-behaved. Everyone knows how well-behaved they are.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0071par0456	Mr. Metiner, Mr. Aslanoglu, please.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0072par0457	Shame on you, he's out there talking to everyone like a street kid, calling the whole thing off!
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0065par0458	Dear MPs, the will of the nation... [[Noises from AK PARTY and CHP rows]] Ma'am, can you cut me off?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0073par0461	I did, now, look, Mr. Aslanoglu, wait a minute, I'll give it to you again. You've had thirteen minutes, I'll add three, I'll reboot.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0074par0462	He's a lineup pitcher, he doesn't do anything else.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0073par0463	Yes, please come in now.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0075par0464	Dear friends, I say again: The will of the people is not to go and tell the people what the will of the nation is, but the will of the people to answer for all that you have done before the eyes of the people. That's why this House should appreciate everything he's done. I thought you said that. Yeah, well, everybody appreciates it, but why are you kidnapping people? Why don't you get people to publish it? You have to be sincere. When I asked the Speaker of Parliament and the Deputy Prime Minister, who was in charge of the broadcast, each one of them didn't know, who cut these publications, why these publications aren't being made, no one can give us an answer. Somebody give us an answer. We say, since this House of Legislature must first make its own law and present every account he makes to the people's will. A will not given to the people's will can never be the sovereignty of the people here, my friends. So whatever is being held for him in this House, let everyone know everything and see everything. Let's respect the will of the people. Please first, it is your duty, my friends, to present the full work of political party groups and Parliament to the will of the people while the Turkish Grand National Assembly performs this legislature. Let him do it first, fellas. My dear friends, of course, should be an example to institutions here in Turkey. It should set an example for institutions in Turkey with honesty, primordiality, discretion and all institutions. Has Turkey's Grand National Assembly ever set an example for institutions in Turkey? Not today, not yesterday, not the day before, not today. Dear friends, it's never happened. Dude sergeant relationships, careers, merits, a lot of staffed up without them. And now it's said -- that's the pain of the job -- we're going to do a norm-study work in the Mecliste. There's too many personnel, we'll send them. There's a lot of people here who've worked for years, who've worked honestly, honestly, honorably. First, ask the people you bring here without merit, without skill. Have you been taking exams here for years? Have you tested here since 2000? Have you measured people's integrity? No. Dude, the sergeant thing, the guy with the buddy, he's here. He gave a terrible test, yesterday and the day before, and today. First of all, I bow to the people who have worked in this House for years, working hard. No one has the right to victimize these people. For one thing, there's a substance, a famous item, that the Secretary General first wanted the authority to send these people, the staff, to other institutions and institutions. Yeah, who are you sending? If you don't take care of people who work for years, if you don't have loyalty, one day someone will make you the same disloyalty. First, our lower commissioners, Mr. Türeli of Love and Mr. Aydın Ayyadın, Mr. Bilç -- they sat with them, Mr. Mustafa Bey, they sat with them, we explained that. Friends, it is not fitting for anyone to send anyone from this House against their will, to be banished to other institutions and organizations. This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. First of all, this should be an example of respect, love, loyalty, but, unfortunately, so far, career, integrity, it's all mixed up because it's never been considered. In an institution -- officer, 4/C, 4/D, 4/B, consultant, assistant consultant -- if you mix things up so much, you can't control them. Again, another issue: If a parliament employs people, it must first obey the state of law in Turkey. They're here to hire consultants, counselors. If any institution in Turkey employs people... do you know of any other institution without severance pay, without severance pay? Is there such an institution? Yes, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. If you take advantage of the loophole of the law, because it's contractual... not a friend, but a congressman who works here for four years, works for him for four years, if you work for him for four years, it's not a term, it's not a term, it's not a term, but this Parliament shouldn't do it, it should be an example. I've complained in the Plan and Budget Commission, I'm reporting. I'm reporting again, I'm reporting to the Ministry of Labor, I'm reporting to the House, as an institution that doesn't pay the workers' severance. No, it's not a temporary job, it's counseling. Counsellors come in with an MP, they work for four years, and when they leave four years later, they have a legal right to pay severance pay, friends. That's not gonna happen. Could it be an institution that broke the law, that broke the law, Parliament? My dear friends, there must be love in a council. There must be love in this institution. You, now, have given a lot of outsiders... to every congressman, a consultant, assistant advisor, and three people who work in the assistant services class; that's good. For one thing, they've removed the issue of coming from public office, or maybe not. Friends, this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; the MPs must be free, free to work, but the people who work here -- the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- must follow Parliamentary discipline, Parliament's working harmony. I believe that if all of the people we call assistant advisors, the people we call the machine, come from the outside, the Parliament administration will not be able to provide that harmony. After all, we've had people working here for years on the council staff. Friends, they've worked for years; how do you separate these people? Now, the advisor you just brought in, the assistant advisor's wages and salaries will be way above the people who have worked in the House for years. It is an injustice, a disloyalty to them. They worked for years, they worked for all of us. Is there a different cost structure in an institution between people who do the same job? You'll do the same job... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There have been people who have worked for 16 years for 15 years. They do their job very successfully. The House must be an example. You leave them on one side, you get new members of the House, you bring someone else. Well, brother, there are people here, they've worked here, they've worked here; what's wrong with them? Why don't you pick them out of the 4/C? His skill, his knowledge... no. What kind of a thing is that, guys? What's their sin? First of all, friends, when the Turkish Grand National Assembly is hiring outside personnel from now on, it must melt those 4/C people first. When you say "Eritmeli," they must be part of the Assembly. These are the people you all see every day, who serve us every day; it's a shame to these people. Friends, there's an assistant service, there's an administrative service, they're doing the same job, someone's always creating something different. I say again: Turkey's Grand National Assembly did not set an example for Turkey yesterday, nor did it today, but has always used all kinds of spaces to bring in people, as a result, these born friends were not an exemplary institution. There's a start here. Friends, lawmakers, we left at 5:30 yesterday morning, where we've all served until today. At least when there's a problem, we can go to the Speakership, the institution we belong to, and we can talk about it. What, sir, is being transferred to the Ministry of Health. Friends, I mean, is the House Secretary General incapable of managing a place? You get the best technical equipment, the best shape... only I can tell you what's wrong with me, and I'll tell the Ministry of Health how. I came here to tell you that there's a problem here, there's a problem here. I mean... because I need to talk to you; they're handing it over.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0076par0478	It's gonna be special. It's gonna be special.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0075par0479	Again, there is a trade group in Turkey, we must respect every professional group, there is a legal counsel. There's gotta be a lawyer's license here. I know how to get a lawyer's license, and I know how to get one. For example, we report cases without a lawyer's license or a power of attorney, and they go on trial. Friends, every matter has its own power of attorney, and you can give each lawyer a separate power of attorney. Without an example of a power of attorney, the declaration is a very clear example. Friends, therefore, in the matter of legal counseling, there is no way that those who do not have a legal license should be employed as legal advisors. It can't be about respect for the profession, it can't be about respect for the lawyers. For one thing, I'm gonna have to say this. Of course, the first time the bill came in here, let's turn the security phenomenon in the parliament over to private security companies. But right now, we have a policeman here who welcomes us, all of our guests, all of them, serves them, keeps all of us safe in Turkey. Sometimes he's on watch 24 hours a day. They're trying to send 10,000 or 15,000 people who come here on Tuesdays, and they're really happy. They had a small compensation, and they cut it off. It doesn't work on the same condition, guys. We left at 5:30 yesterday morning. We can't really pay off those friends of mine who wait until 5:30 at the council restaurants. But some of them are staffed, some without staff, some are from 4/C, some are from 4/B. Guys, is that a thing? Isn't it unfair, my friends, if there's someone in an institution who doesn't have a definition of duty and pays a different salary, who pays less than half of someone's salary, who's doing that job more successfully? Our subcommittee has made significant changes in this bill. I thank all the friends who worked on the subcommittee. In the top commission, we all have the same thing in common, we all have the same common sense, so we've made every contribution we can. But there's still the stuff I'm talking about, guys, there's still a problem with what I'm talking about. In particular, everyone is anxious about the transfer of members of Parliament to another institution. Don't hurt people's hearts. If people work peacefully, happily, let alone in their institutions for 20 years. Again, there are secretaries from other institutions who have worked for 20 years. They've taken exams, they've tested them, they've recruited people, and someone's still been waiting for 20 years. Why? Because he didn't have a master, no one took care of him, he's a loser. The House should be everyone's father and the poor's father, but until now, the House hasn't been able to do the job of a father, man, to get out of a sergeant's relationship. From now on, I would like Turkey to set an example for Turkey as an institution that cares about careers, merit, skill, and everyone else's work, but with this law, this offer, and this present offer, I still don't see any hope, I don't see any hope. It'll go on the same way because there's never been an example of unity. Again, different fees, different staffs... this Congress shouldn't be this, it should be one punch, it should be love, it should be unity, but I'm amazed. The Presidential Court doesn't want any of this to happen, so I've decided now. I salute you all with the unity of a Parliament with national sovereignty and a state of law, with all the MPs, all the arrested MPs here, publishing every action we do every day.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0077par0489	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı is a member of the Alliance. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0078par0493	Mr. President, I have been promised by the National Party of Action to explain our views on the generality of Law Proposal 83 that is being held. I salute you all. This bill, which bears the signatures of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the 2 Vice Presidents, regulates the organisation of the Turkish National Assembly's governing body, its mandate, its powers and responsibilities, and removes the existing 13/10/19 Law. The general reason for the proposal of the law is that when Law No. 2919 comes into force as a product of the inter-governmental regime, there is a simple structure in the administrative agency, where the number of hierarchical levels is added to the agenda by adding office heads, an artificial expansion trend in the agency, some units have lost their functions, some units have lost their jobs, and the occupational conflicts between units have violated the principle of unity and integrity, not the person, but the person, the person, the person, the person, the person, the person, the person, the person, the person and the fact that the principle of education and integrity is being pushed back into the plan, the injustice to an artificial expansion trend in the agency, the lack of movement, and the exception of the officer's lack of employment, and the fact that the fact that the issue of the issue of the issue of the matter of the matter of the matter is that there is a negative, and that there is a negative, and that there is a negatively different, rather than the fact, that the fact, that there is a negatively different in the fact, that the fact, that there is a lack of the fact, that there is a strong, that there is a lack of employment, that there is a lack of employment, that there is a strong, and that there is a lack of employment. These reasons include how the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been led for years, how it has been led, what it has been done, how it has been implemented, and how it has been practiced inequality, equality, justice, justice, justice, justice and law, and how it has been appointed by a person, how the Assembly has been filled, how the organization has become ineffable, and how unfair practices have been made among the staff. The current cumbersome structure in the administrative agency is actually too late for the dissolution of the system, which includes staff assignments and pleasure applications for promotions. In order to end unjust practices that have ruined the reputation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, an arrangement would have to be made much earlier to correct these situations. With that respect, I would like to express our appreciation as the National Movement Party that the Honorable Speaker has made an attempt to arrange this matter. All our efforts have been and will be to contribute to the president's initiative. Our criticisms and proposals are intended to establish an arrangement worthy of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and ensure that this law meets justice and legal provisions. Valuable lawmakers are generally understood by the draft sent to political parties, the proposal to the Plan and Budget Commission, and the serious differences between the proposals for changes offered in the subcommittee and Commission talks. On the other hand, the government's direct intervention has been faced during the negotiations of the law proposal. Following the amendment to the subcommittee's proposal, the provisions for the special service compensation of members of the Parliamentary Court of Parliament, which has been appointed under Law No. 666 and the members of Parliament shall be relieved of their duties in accordance with Parliamentary staff's overtime fee, on the terms of their contract in exchange for staff, and on special service compensations under the authority of the Parliament's Court of Parliament, and on the authority of Law No. 657, as well as on the additional indicators, office compensation and other financial rights. The AKP government is drafting a ruling on the law when the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is open, as well as changing the autonomy rights of the members of the Turkish Parliament's administrative body, and disqualifying the authority of the Parliamentary Presidential Court on this matter. I'm asking, who's the legislature? Is it moral to make such comprehensive arrangements, to ignore Parliament, to take the powers of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey when Parliament is open and out of the question of an extraordinary situation, first and foremost? What kind of ethics does it fit in? Act 666 and regulations made against the Parliamentary administrative body have the right to legislature. In fact, the Law of Authority No. 6223 dated April 6, 2011 does not cover financial rights. Again, the Turkish National Assembly is not part of this law. In the 95th article of the Constitution, there is also the provision and execution of the governing services of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey by the power of Parliament. Therefore, the provision issued under Code 666 is contrary to the 87th and 91st Articles regarding the authority to issue a decree under the Constitution's rule of law and the 95th article concerning the governing services of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. During the talks of the power code, it is in the transcripts and the Commission report on the declarations that the law does not cover the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. However, Mr. President, the law proposal that we're discussing has been paralleled with the Commission's motions in accordance with Article 666. This means that the law submits to the imposition of governance. I hope that in order to defend the principle of separation of powers and the independence of law enforcement, you of all people in the General Assembly will not submit to this compulsion to protect the dignity of our Parliament. Dear lawmakers, the general reason for the law proposal we are negotiating is that Law 2919 took effect as a product of the intermediary regime on 18 October 1983. However, the authority issued under Article 5 of Article 5, which may have shown that Law 2919 is the product of an intermediary regime, has been carried out as the 9th joke of Article 29/19. This mandate envisions the appointment of any member of the administrative body as President in the event of the need to be appointed to other public institutions and organisations. As it turns out, the authority for exile has been maintained exactly as it is, and there has been a change in the use of authority rather than the presidency, and the exile has been made to one of the public institutions and institutions in Ankara. In the commission talks, this authority was taken out of context for extra-employment personnel. With such a arbitrary arrangement, you know who will be banished. Officers who do not have references from the AKP's upper administration leave, so those who have no allies, spouses, friends, relatives, and communities remain. As is known, Law 657 has a logic that protects the officer's rights to political staffing and political oppression and is based on public service. According to this, officers cannot be transferred to another agency against their will. Again, in the event of disciplinary action or criminal action, there are grounds to be imposed on them to the extent that they will be suspended from office. Therefore, the arrangement must be removed from the text, predicting that personnel may be banished to other institutions. An officer can't accept being driven to other institutions without question. Is that even possible? Unfortunately, the AKP members did not accept our motion in the Commission to issue a ruling on this authority, and despite our insistence, this authority has not been removed from the proposal. Yes, this arrangement is a product of the period of impact, as stated in the general reason for the proposal of the law. Such understanding can only be involved in the coup d'états, the fascist and dictatorial regimes. Thus, this makes it concretely clear how AKP's mentality and the mindset of the coupters fit. It was said that there were counselors who did not come to the office at the Commission talks again, whose address was undetectable, and could be put forward as grounds for the stay of exile authority. Those who turn away from those who do not come to work, and those who do not do anything about them, commit crimes. According to Law No. 657, officers are suspended from duty in the event of a ten-day absence without a warrant or a warrant, and they are not allowed to serve twenty days a year without an apology. I'm asking the Speaker of the House: 87 people appear to be the chief of staff, the chief of staff, the chief of staff, and the counsel. Which of these don't come to work? Are there any other officers who get paid before they come to work? Who don't they come to work with? Who are they, whose relatives are they? Who's behind all this? Is this AKP's farm or AKP's barley? Now, you're not going to come to work, you're not going to invite him, you're not going to be able to trace his address, but you're going to put his salary into the med accounts, and with this bill, you're going to give them personal staff to keep their salaries exactly the same, and then you're going to justify the people you've been looking out for, the ones you've been looking out for, the ones you've been looking out for, the ones who didn't come to work. Who would believe that? Those who don't come to work can only be finished with one report. There's no need for law or anything, just an A4 for the report. How could you be so weak? Doesn't the council check whether the officers are on duty or not? Why don't you consider them self-sufficient? Why are you letting it go? Why are you protecting me? Please explain. Dear lawmakers, no matter what department you go to today, you will encounter staff working at a different status, as well as doing the same job. In the main departments, in the public relations building, in the restaurant, in the cafeteria, in the barber's office, in the nursery, in the nursery, in the nursery, many of the staff, such as office clerks, cooks, barbers, tea cooks and waiters, even some of those who do the same thing as the general council, in the general administrative services class, some of them in the auxiliary services class, and some of them in the 4/C status, are subject to different attributes. While this arrangement has been made due to resolving the negativeities of having different rights while the staff employed in different statuses have done the same work, these negativeities have been increased, as well as the situation has not been resolved. Even the staff members of the House are being victimised. In the wake of a parallel arrangement to Parliamentary staffs, especially under Article 666, it is now evident that a different autonomy rights will occur among employees of the same rank, given the envisioned arrangement for their appointment to the Parliamentary staff. The current staff will now face a bizarre situation, such as the loss of rights if the current staff is promoted in office, after the Court of Law 666 has been reduced to severance and additional indicators. In subcommittee talks, the decision on the increase of the staff's overtime fees by 20 points, about 125 lira is not included in the proposal text, but the provisions that regulate the overtime fees have been lifted completely, the presidential Court said it would be taken into consideration in the arrangement on this issue. Again, the decision was not included in the proposal text for the general management services class on the grounds that 463 staff members working in the auxiliary service class in subcommittee talks were given the authority to make class changes to the presidential Court on the grounds that they have the same examples and are doing the same job. Our offer to recruit personnel at 4/C status, who do the same work as their counterparts, has not been accepted. It is only agreed that 20 per cent of the personnel who will be admitted to parliament from now on will be taken by a test from the 4/C. In fact, it is used outside the purpose of Article 4/C of Law 657, which envisions temporary employment for less than a year and seasonal services. The services employing personnel at 4/C status are services that last less than a year or without seasonal services, providing continuity. They've been working here for over a decade, they're retiring from here, how is this temporary service? Therefore, the practice is contrary to the rhetoric of the existing law and to its spirit. Employees working at 4/C status are victims of employment without the financial and social rights of their peers, who are doing the same job, who are doing the same service. Therefore, considering the general reason for the proposal and a fair approach, we must recruit the 4/C (c) people. This would be an example to all public institutions and organizations by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. As it is noted from Article 35 of the proposal adopted by the subcommittee, an arrangement for a standard compensation has been set up according to the state-owned collection of temporary staff. In the Commission talks, the proposal for the subcommittee, which includes a system that says it will not victimise the staff that is still employed, has been altered, and the fee, which means bringing the hierarchical level between lawmakers, has been envisioned, and has been adopted as Article 30 of this proposal. However, it is evident that this system is unfair and is capable of causing many personnel to suffer. The fact is, staff members of the administrative agency are unable to benefit from the proposed system, and there is an inequality among them according to their precedents. An equitable arrangement must be made. No payments to personnel assigned to security services will result in in inequality and discrimination if they are assigned to the law after the date of its execution. In particular, the disparity is even higher that the members of the police force, who are assigned to party groups or lawmakers, will be given a high price. There should be no discrimination between employees who come from the public with temporary assignment, and no one should be victimized. The way to prevent intense demands for the presidency in order to temporarily deploy police personnel should not be such an unfair and discrimination. There is still a decrease in payments to many employees from public institutions with temporary assignments. In addition, the system is not capable of assigning qualified personnel from the public. Therefore, it is better to return to the current application or to the system brought into the subcommittee text. In a sense, there will be unrest among the staff who have helped their MPs to receive different fees in the hierarchical proportion. Therefore, it is thought that it would be more appropriate for him to set a different fee based on his collection status rather than on his titles. I thank you, all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit02spe0079par0520	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0079par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 26th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume negotiations on Law Proposal 83 from where we left off. The commission is here. The Presidential Court representative is here. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Süzyya Sadi Bilgiç is in charge of the Isparta MP. Here you go, wise guy.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0080par0008	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to address the EC PARTY Group regarding the Supreme National Assembly of Turkey's Law Proposal, number 83 in session. I hereby salute your high council. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we're still at the beginning of the legislature, and for the first time, there are a lot of our friends elected deputies, but they know very well how the old legislature administration works, and our new friends have been more or less exposed to it. We all know the quality of the House's service is not very high. However, services to lawmakers, both representatives of the nation and the legislature, where the nation is represented, must be at the highest level. Respectful friends, this is a sign of respect for the nation, on the other hand, one of the prerequisite conditions for the nation's representatives to be able to carry out their duties properly entrusted to them. We, without a doubt, try to fulfill the tasks we've been entrusted with, but it's very clear that the world has become a global village, while relationships have become more complicated, and it's impossible to follow information that has been produced can't be understood without corporate structures supporting it. Honourable lawmakers, at this point, support for lawmakers who are the makers of the laws governing society by organizing the decisionmakers and economic, social and financial areas of this nation is also of great importance. It's also well-known that these opportunities are not subject to individuals. These opportunities serve to improve the quality of legislation, to ensure the proper fulfillment of legislation and control activities, which are the main duty of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Dear friends, this is the proposal of the law that we're discussing. Turkey's Grand National Assembly executive agency has provided administrative and technical support for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey since the opening of parliament. As a matter of fact, the agency has also experienced changes over time. As you know, the Law on the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, number 2919, was adopted about thirty years ago, in 1983, but at the moment, the current organization was unable to meet the needs. Friends, of course, there's a sense that this proposal came out of nowhere, and it's definitely not like that. At various times, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Secretary General has conducted studies on this subject, including other institutions such as Bilkent University and TODAIE. The focus of these studies also included the creation of effective organisation and increasing institutional capacity, but the focus of these studies has been emphasised on the need for the agency to have a much more efficient, fast, flexible, and information-oriented structure, given that it has different working patterns and conditions from the general public. Dear lawmakers, if you look at the organizational structure and staff structure of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, you will see that there are many problems. We all face these problems in our studies. You can put up counter ideas, rhetoric. We've lived through this in the commission phases, in the lower commission phases, in the top commission phases, but you know and you admit that this law is a necessity, a necessity, a necessity. I may be speaking on behalf of my party right now on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, but believe me, until the last second, I'd like to stress the pressure that I've been under -- as the President of the Subcommittee, as the President of Plan and Budget Commission. No one was looking for the House's law in the process. In a way, everyone tried to pressure, force, protect their own law. I really want to share this pressure with you here. My dear friends, there is no way we can make special arrangements for ourselves. First of all, we had to look for ways to protect the highest rights and laws of the High Assembly and all its employees, and that's exactly what we did when we brought this bill here with our fellow commissioners. You're looking at the agency, there's a lot of units, there's a lot of managers, there's no telling what he does for a living. None of them do what one does because the other does or because the other does what the other does. There's nothing systematic. First of all, this bill is killing this mess, guys. As we look at the current staff, we see 226 senior executives working for Parliament agencies as assistant managers and senior staffs. There are 82 vice principals here. We now have a proposal -- which groups have agreed on -- that narrows it down to 45. Only as Deputy Chief of Staff, eight of whom have been assigned to our Speaker's Chief of Staff. This number, for example, is being downloaded by the order of the Speaker of the House to 3°. He's got a serious staff bump. Over 1,800 euros of excessive employment are mentioned. My dear friends, for once this proposal of the law rules out this mess. The agency is being renovated according to today's needs, and thus aims to be more effective in carrying out the services expected of it. First of all, the organization's name is changing -- it's very important -- and the Turkish National Assembly's Executive Organization is being appointed. That's the truth, folks, you can't think of a structure that's been cut off from the Speaker. After all, the head of this organization is the Speaker of Parliament. And with that change, the bond is restored. The number of secretary general assistants has increased to 4 ▪ and their positions are being redesigned. Legislatures have two basic tasks: legislation and control. That's the most important task. Therefore, there are strengthening regulations for the control size, which have so far been neglected, as well as the arrangements for the subcommittee and the Commission. Under the Assistant Secretary General in Charge of Law and Control, a vice-president's staff will also be in charge of auditing services. Now, this is nothing more than a stronger expression of the importance of law enforcement and control. Under this Deputy Secretary General there are three presidents: Laws Decisions, Budgets and Editor-in-Chiefs, under the Deputy Secretary General, in charge of legislation and control. These three are the heart of life, the brain, everything. So this Deputy Secretary General will be responsible for the development of only law enforcement services, co-direction and presentation, and will not be involved in any other business. How do I support legislation and control at the highest level of world standards, this fellow will deal with it. Again, we proposed that institutional memory and experience are very important in law enforcement. So let's put the appointment of this Deputy Secretary General and the executives of this Deputy Secretary General on special conditions. For one thing, let them be expelled from the inside. Those who work directly in the process of legislation -- the Laws -- the Decisions, the Budget and the Directors of the Charter -- are law enforcement experts who work here. Dear friends, in case you haven't noticed, we've made special arrangements for legislatures. The law enforcement experts who know how to do this will be the manager here, and the Deputy Secretary General will be appointed among them. This arrangement means institutionalisation of legislatures, the transfer of the memory of the law into the future, and emphasis on the importance of the real work of the Assembly. We're those who have to answer to people every four years, and there's no other institution besides us that has to answer to the nation. In order to do the right thing for our nation, we have to do the right thing by the Parliamentary executive agency that will serve us in this process. Our other Assistant Secretary General is in charge of administrative, financial and technical services. Here's all the administrative and technical work. Another is the Assistant Secretary General for Information and Information Services. This will consist of units that will meet lawmakers' request for information and documents, which will conduct press and public relations of parliament and information processing services. And one of the most important units in this unit is our Research Center Directorate, where we have a very strong staff, which is completely made up of legislature experts. Here they can provide all kinds of support for our lawmakers regarding the process of legislation, all kinds of research on their behalf. At the same time, this unit provides all kinds of technical support for all of the foreign fellowship commissions, international foreign commissions, friendships groups, and lawmakers associated with abroad. Finally, Deputy Secretary General of the National Palaces: Dear friends, national palaces are our national heritage. It is our duty to protect them in the best way possible, to inherit them as they came to us. These are the cultural values and historical heritage of the world as well as our national heritage. In this regard, all visitors from the local and foreign community must be kept open. These tasks are well served. Hopefully he'll do better with this new arrangement. Because there's been a radical change in this unit. The unit has been converted to Assistant Secretary General, and the number of units connected to close to 20-25 has been reduced to 3. So the mess here was cleaned up and made a neat unit, and the service presentation provided a standard. With their services, I hope, our citizens and the world will have their appreciation, and our friends there will do the work that will make us proud in the nation. Honourable lawmakers, another organisation on the organization: it is preferring a horizontal organisation model by reducing hierarchical levels to ensure speed and efficiency in the process of meeting tasks and responsibilities. The offer has been lifted from office presidents and managers. That's a radical change. They were replaced by a more powerful organizational model. The non-functional service units have been reduced, and similar services have been collected under one roof in order to prevent service conflicts. Both the co-ordination of similar services and the presentation of these services will be carried out by these presidents. Respected lawmakers, by doing so, have established what we call a real service unit. Similar services will now be carried out by a single unit, not by scattered, unaware units. These presidencys will also act more strongly and effectively in terms of the service presentation. In addition, by offering law, the duties of the presidents have been marked separately and their job descriptions have been made clear, and the business processes have been explicitly defined. From now on, no one will be able to say, "What task will any unit carry out, who is responsible for any work? This was not my job anymore." The number of units 57 since the presidential organisation has also dropped to 17. 40 units have been reduced. This is a sign of serious restructuring. It also means that the number of executives has been reduced. Right now, I've just told you, there are 226 staff members, including the assistant manager and the above-level advisors. The offer is scheduled to drop to about 100. The number of executive staffs will be 65-70 if we drop the consultants, which is what it means. Which means it's a really big savings. This also shows the reasonable number needed to be managed here. Dear friends, with this envisioned simple and horizontal organisational structure, a system is created that can respond faster and more effectively to the needs of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and lawmakers and reduce bureaucracy. Respected MPs, let's come to the biggest mess in the House, which is the personnel system. The quality and quality of personnel who will serve the Grand National Assembly of Turkey during the implementation of legislation and control activities should also be at the highest, but unfortunately we can't feel that quality, except for a few units, due to this confusion in parliament. In fact, there should be a self-criticism here, I think it should be. Of course, as politicians, as executives here, it is our fault, as well as ours. As an AK PARTY, we're willing to correct that mistake. We say, friends, from now on, to the House, the winner of the exam, not the one he knows, the one with the pull of the strings, but the one with the right of the wrist. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] Thank you, Mr. Mevlüt. From now on, no matter what status he's working on, no matter what the officer or the undersigned, no matter what temporary staff, everyone will enter the House with a test. He who gets the highest score wins the exam. Excessive employment, incompatibility with the needs of service in staff employment policy, yes, valuable lawmakers, a lot of extra staff in Parliament. From now on, the norm staff will be implemented, and there will be no more problems with over-employment in the House.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0081par0040	But you're not firing anyone.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0080par0041	No, we're protecting everyone's essence, and I'm getting there now, Mr. Mevlüt, there's no problem there.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0081par0042	Oh, okay.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0082par0043	It's not fair.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0080par0044	In no way was it wrong to think that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey would do injustice to the citizen and employee of this great Assembly, so, Mr. Aslanoglu, thank you very much.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0083par0045	We'd like to see it in practice.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0080par0046	I mean, we'll all have to see it together. And while all this is being done, dear friends, no one is to be victimized, that's exactly what I was left with. Everyone's rights will be protected until the end. The measures are mandatory for the future. The moment we say, "Let's put these decisions into practice today," we'll be victimizing our friends here, our employees. There's no way anyone could have thought of such a thing in this House. Another problem is, we're all listening to it, coming to all of us, friends, the situation of the 4/C people. We've made an important arrangement with this proposal. Our other speaker friends just made a point of it. And inside, our group vice president friends are still seeing each other. The number of employees of 4/C will be taken by the 4/C/C/C/C/Estrians with tests taken within the institution by 20 per cent of which will be taken when they receive an officer. There's no such opportunity anywhere else. We, the EC PARTY, have been sensitive about this, and our fellow commissioners at the other opposition party have shown the same sensitivity as us, and we've given our staff here a very important opportunity. So, as an EC PARTY, we have once again shown that we are sensitive to the demands of our citizens and that we are there for them. Important arrangements have also been made for the staff to work for dear friends, political party groups and lawmakers. The most important complaint for all of us was that we couldn't employ qualified personnel to help us with legislation because we weren't paid enough. We've covered that with the arrangements we've made. My other friends have just spoken about this, but under the arrangement of these consultants regarding this latest arrangement, which has been made concerning aid staff, there are also signatures of both my fellow nationalist Action Party members and Republican People's Party commissioners. With the arrangements, I think they'll be worth as much in Turkey's terms as it can be called, and it will serve the purpose. And that's how they've been restored to a standard. You know, there's a huge amount of pay difference among the staff that's doing this right now, who's coming in on a temporary assignment in the same way. It's been put in such a standard.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0084par0050	Again, differences have not been removed.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0080par0051	So there's no difference, no, there's no difference. If he is being paid higher at a temporary staff agency, he will continue to receive the fee at his institution, but if he receives a monthly leave of absence under our offer, he will be paid by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. All of this here is a consultant, a consultant, a co-employee, and that's how a principle of equality has been provided for them in the personnel from the institutions.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0085par0052	Why the change of plan and budget manager?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0080par0053	We'll talk about it soon, it's not about that, it's not about the law. From those who will work in this status, the employees of other institutions will either receive their own salary or receive the wages here, preferably their own. Dear lawmakers, political party groups -- one of the most important actors in politics -- have also been reinforced by both experts and co-employees. There will be 10 group advisers in groups from now on, 25 branch officials plus a percentage of members of parties will be employed here. Respected lawmakers, a matter of interest to all of you is the age of the health department. You know, he's in the House right now as a prime minister. However, the opportunities of the chiefmistress are very limited and the services provided are limited. All of this has been assessed, and the rights of the staff working here have been maintained, and the era of the Prime Ministerate has been decided. However, health care will be placed in a stronger position. With protocols between the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Ministry of Health, health services will be carried out within the Turkish Grand National Assembly compound, thus strengthening its equipment and expertise. For example, as long as the General Assembly is running, one cardiologist will be present at minimum. In addition, educational research hospitals of the Ministry can be used. Friends, if this is not an additional opportunity, we will continue to take advantage of other health services that we have taken advantage of. Dear friends, as you know, have just spoken of our friends, referred to the provisions of this law, referred to KHK No. 666. We have done our work and made arrangements to protect our employees' rights, laws, and the rights and laws of the Assembly, even within these NGOs. For example, a number of changes have been made in this KHK, considering the position of the Assembly. Current personnel are already outside the scope of the KHK, so there will be no loss in terms of social and financial rights. Dear friends, I would like to thank all members of the Plan and Budget Commission on behalf of myself and my party. In particular, on behalf of myself, my party, and the Grand Assembly, Mr. Cemil Cicek, our Parliamentary Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his determination to make this new arrangement, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0086par0060	Thank you, wise guy. The first statement on behalf of the individuals belongs to Mr. Mehmet Shandir. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0087par0064	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. Let's pick up where the scholar left off. Really...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0088par0066	He told me all about it.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0087par0067	He told all of them, and there was nothing left to talk about. He says, Mr. Topballer, but now, sir, let's face it, a bill has been drafted in good faith, in sincerity, in order to be good. I'd like to thank Mr. Speaker, who has revealed his will. I would like to thank all of our employees, all of our members of the Commission, the Subcommittee, and all of our members of the Commission who are trying to make sure that this is perfect. Could it be better? I'm sure of it. Is there anything missing? That's right, you do. Is he wrong? Right, maybe. But in a good cause, the law of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which has been debated for a long time, has been prepared and has come before us. Dear friends, if you read the reason -- although, I'd like to talk about it in general -- if you look at the general reason, it's very important to build an independent administrative organization. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where we are legislating. We're building a law to rule Turkey, building a law on the basis of the task that has been imposed on us to address society's demands, its problems. So, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we're building the law of life, which is one of the three legs of the system, the most important foot of the system, to me, is one of its first leg. This is an obligation, an obligation to be independent of the execution, but it has been legally declared that it is not independent of the enforcement of the Agency's Law, to live under the Law 666, which Mr. Kalaycı. There's been an intervention. We're ignoring this in the subcommittee, in the top commission, here in the General Assembly, even though we insist on saying so. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as I have just stated, this is the establishment of law enforcement. We're building law here, the law we've established, the law we've adopted here, the law we've adopted, the law we've agreed to -- whether it's an offer or a bill, the laws of the House -- all the laws that come out here, in the name of the nation, the laws of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, sometimes by compromise, sometimes by opposing, but as a rule of character. These laws need to have something in common, and it needs to strengthen the sense of justice. Laws that do not strengthen the sense of justice are not laws; laws are not laws. Our mission is here, in society... Because that's our greatest common denominator, being a law state, living together in the security of the rule of law. Now, valuable speakers, opposition speakers, they said very important things to me, and they said heavy things. I made some notes. So Mr. Hasip Kaplan said, "This is persecution, how do you accept this persecution?" It's really not an injustice to the people of 4/C. If anyone says so, let them come forward.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0089par0073	Cruelty, cruelty.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0087par0074	The definition in Article 4 (c) of State Officers' Law No. 657 is related to temporary workers, temporary employees. You're still 4/C, you're on separate status, and you're gonna get that salary from Mr. Kaplan, who's been doing the same job for 20 years, ten years, doing the same job with the others. Isn't that what Mr. Kaplan said? I agree. Come on, let's fix this. Now, in the back, Mr. Group Vice Presidents are working. We insist, come, let's change that. This place is building a law. Isn't your conscience aching as a member of parliament, a member of parliament, as lawmakers, who can't establish his own law, without the law he's established? Dear friends, now, when you're in the corridors, the people who work in this House, you know, these people who work in the General Assembly, if they're serving in different status, different salaries, is that called justice? What kind of law is that? Come on, let's fix this, no one else is gonna do it, we're gonna do it. Here, we're taking out the Agency Act, so let's fix it. Let's get justice in our own law first. Turkey's Grand National Assembly has to be a pioneer, where it has to be a precedent -- let's do it here, so it can be done elsewhere. Who's holding our hand? There's 1,500 of them. You say you're going to send some of this as well. Is this the one who bent Turkey's back? So this is going to be an extra fee for 1,500 people, and it's going to bend Turkey's back? You know, we grew up, we got up, our gross gross was over $10,000? Is it appropriate to claim that we grew up cutting people off from their livelihood, to Turkey, to the political power that rules Turkey? There's no justice here. Well, another friend of ours said: "Is this the AKP's farm?" So now you've added one thing to the 29th article, you said: "We're going to send it to other institutions within Ankara." For God's sake, Ankara, Beypazar, Ankara, Gudül, Ankara, where are you going to send it? Mr. Scholar says: "We will not victimize anyone." Well, you write in the law. Dear friends, I, of course, speak not in anger, but in public. I mean, that's our shame, guys. I'm sorry! Please excuse me! We've been talking here for years, precious MPs. We've had friends here who've been acting as legislators for three semesters and four semesters. We haven't established our own law. In accordance with the Constitution 86, we shall establish our rights of equity by law. Where's our law?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0090par0081	No! We don't have a law!
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0087par0082	We don't have a law. Among those MPs, among those young friends of ours, I'd say 150, 200 won't be able to retire. You're not retiring. Come on, let's fix this. Yeah, let's fix it.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0091par0084	Okay.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0087par0085	Mr. Haluk İpek, as Vice President, Mehmet Shandir, Deputy Director of the Group, here is our will, come, let's correct it. For God's sake!
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0092par0086	Let's do it!
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0087par0087	Shame on you, Mr. Salih Kapusuz! Dear friends, let me tell you something. Even the Speakers are not equal status. Mr. Mehmet Ali Şahin and Mr. Bulent Arinc receive a salary at different status. Yeah, how do we say that? What should we say? Isn't that rude? I mean, can we hope for everyone? Who will be wounded by a Parliament that can't correct its own law, who can't uphold justice in its own law? Let's not do this, guys, that's not gonna happen! Let's work. Let's work some more. Look, the subcommittee's been reformed, you've been rescinded at the top commission. Where is he, Your Honor? You erased it back. I understand you're here to rescind what we agreed on at the top commission. Don't do this, dear friends. This House is the last hope of this nation. If we discredit this place, we'd be a waste to our country if we could turn this place into an institution that can't solve its own problems. It's an opportunity, we haven't established our own law, but when we're building our staff's law, we're doing injustice, so let's correct it, but let's fix our own law on knowing it's an opportunity. Our biggest shame is that there are seven of them, eight of them are under arrest. Dear friends, the lawmakers elected by the nation are now under arrest and have been under arrest for a thousand days. Let's get this straight, it doesn't suit us. That's not gonna happen. If we don't know any other power that's superior to the will of the nation, if we're proud to put those who interfere in Ergenekon, let's build a law on these lawmakers, let's end their imprisonment. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I give all of you respect, hoping that all of this will be taken into consideration.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0093par0094	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. The last word for the individuals is from Mr. Ekrem Çelebi. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0094par0098	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to speak on behalf of myself on behalf of all concerned law proposal number 83 in the meeting. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation. First, I would like to point out that a valued speaker of ours said, "This is the institutional law of exile. This is certainly not the law of exile or the law of taking back rights. This is the rehabilitating law of an organization in the 1920s. I'd like to make that clear on this occasion. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey had an administrative agency starting on April 23, 1920, when it was founded. Since its first day, it has continued to develop and change according to the needs of time, and has tried to serve the purpose of the legislature's ability to carry out its activities more effectively. As it is known, Law 2919, which organises the establishment of the Grand National Assembly's Secretary General's office, its duties and administrative foundations, was adopted on 13/10/83. Since the adoption of Law 2919, there have been significant changes in both the world and Turkey. In order to restructure the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Secretary-Generalship, work has been done within the institution, especially for some institutions such as the University of Bilkent and TODAI, as well as for strengthening institutional capacity. In light of these studies and the close monitoring of the world's change, it has come to be that legislatures must have a much more efficient, fast, flexible, and knowledge-oriented organization because of their routine and unique working methods. In particular, it is important to maintain speed and efficiency in the process of fulfilling tasks and responsibilities, by reducing hierarchical levels, preferring a horizontal organisation model. Thus, a simple and horizontal organizational structure can be created to ensure that service wealth, diversity, is available. On the other hand, employee employment policies, based on the principles of justice, incentive and efficiency in the distribution of licenses and merits in appointment and promotions according to the defined and defined work processes, stand out. It is clear that with a personnel policy like this, the status, duty, and pay balance can be distributed fairly and equally. The implementation of legislation and control activities, which are among the main tasks of the legislatures, and of the services for these two activities, based on full expertise, arises as a requirement in the changing and developing time. Similar necessity is seen in the area of parliamentary diplomacy. In short, with my statements above, the need for a change in the administration of the Grand National Assembly of the Secretary General of Turkey as part of an understanding of the new organization that I'm trying to draw a picture of. As part of this need, our main law proposal (2/92) has been brought to your attention as a product of this new understanding, with the bid to reduce the hierarchy, removing six office heads and five office vice-presidents. The departments have been reorganised to prevent mission conflicts and to shut down non-functional units. In this scope, 20 managers, 10 branch managers, 6 administrative branch managers, 2 palace managers, one of them were removed from business, factory and palace managers, and only 17 presidential staffs were required. In addition, the number of presidents who were seven was reduced to five, the number of presidents who were 39 was reduced to 15, the number of general secretary advisors who were 41 was limited to 15 and the ability to appoint an attorney staff from an open position or transfer staff was limited to 40 per cent of the entire advisory staff... there was nothing like this before. A significant limitation of exceptional civil service practice. In addition to limited personnel and executives, there is a requirement to be appointed by examinations and to be provided with the conditions of training for open assignments as part of the exceptional civil service. Resetting the conditions for appointment to administrative duties in line with the removal of exceptional civil service in the form of at least four years of grad school. The number of employees employed under 4/B and 4/C is limited to 20 per cent of the total number of staff. On the other hand, the current application stipulates that the number of deputy staff, deputy staff and political party group advisers and branch officials and rights of identity, organised by law under the Presidential Court's Decision. As a matter of fact, the 30th article of the law proposal regulates this issue. According to the ruling, Turkey is to consult with Turkey's President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey at the Executive Service of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 1) 5 presidential advisers, open contractual, 60,000/100,000 indicators, and if they request the level of salary of the contractor in terms of employees by temporary deployment in public institutions and institutions, this is the same measure as 60,000 to 100,000 indicators. 2) With 10 group advisers for each group of political parties, open contractual, interim assignment in public institutions and corporations, the level of salary for the contractor will be received by 85,000 indicator agreements and at the level of salary they receive in their institutions, 3) For each group of political parties, office officials for each group, the number of MPs 10 per cent, plus 25 per cent, 55 office officials in total, open contract contracting, 73,000 indicators, if they demand the level of the contract's fee for employees, if they are granted temporary assignments in public institutions and institutions, will be 73,000 indicators of the amount of the contract. 4) By showing the level of salary they are receiving in their institutions with a total of 83,500 indicator agreements on the terms of the residency commission and the international commissioner and the parliamentary body, in the open, under contract, if they request for employees by temporary assignment in public institutions and institutions, 5) Assistant advisers for the residency commission and international commissioners and MPs, who are clearly under contract again, with an open contract of 73,000 indicators on the terms of the contractor's fee, if they ask for temporary employment in public institutions and institutions. 6) An additional staff for the residency commission and the international commission and the MP will receive the level of salary they are receiving in their institutions with 63,000 indicator agreements, in case they ask for a temporary job in public institutions and institutions. With such an arrangement, our Parliament, one of the most distinguished institutions of our country, will be able to support our MPs by qualified and specialized individuals who are trying to properly carry out the representation of our citizens. On the other hand, the proposal brings in a norm staff application at the Turkish National Assembly Administration. The principle and standards of this practice will be more than due in future years in the Turkish Grand National Assembly with a more effective personnel policy, given the removal of the norm staff and the application of exceptional civil service to be determined by the Presidential Court under the mandate and responsibilities of service units. A special effort has been made today to maintain care, repair and restoration of the national palaces, which we consider to be our national heritage, and which we have shown to be a separate focus in this framework, and to preserve them as dynamicly as the first day. As a matter of fact, all visitors, especially foreign visitors, have expressed satisfaction with the work and promotional activities. In this sense, our national palaces are connected to the Executive Agency at the level of Assistant Secretary General. In this sense, all of these statements clearly show that the Turkey's National Assembly Administration is to be able to provide a quality that can respond to the requirements of time -- information-oriented, timely, active and competently -- and to be restructured in the context of a holistic approach, to make the personnel profile more qualified, and in this context, to make the employment form more fair, egalitarian and competitive. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On this occasion, I pay my respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0095par0126	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. We're going to question-answer. Mr. Ozkes... no. Dear Light.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0096par0130	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Vice President, I'd like to wish this bill to be a blessing for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I have a few questions. First of all, have any of the secretaries been asked to change the name of the staff who worked as secretaries until they realized the price of the staff and the outsiders? So is there an example in another public organization that mentions the name of the secretary or another name? Why was this change needed? Second: Is it true that the staff members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, working for the staff, have been victimised? Is a measure of this being considered? And third, what is the reason for the transfer of the Prime Minister to the Ministry of Health? How will it be decided if the personnel here are to be sent to the Ministry or to remain in Parliament? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0097par0136	Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0098par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Vice President and Madam Secretary: How many personnel were working in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with this Agency Act in 2002? How many employees have we had between 2002 and 2011? How many personnel will be employed in other institutions with the new arrangement? What is the criteria for this extra norm application? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0099par0140	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0100par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary: You know that Law number 4734 has brought out this great Parliament and its implementation in all public institutions and institutions, but the proposed law is considered to be the exception of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Does Turkey fit the structure of the Grand National Assembly, which we should set an example for? I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0101par0144	Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0102par0145	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Speaker, 1) There are people who don't get the title and the salary for what they do, especially in the council restaurants. Will you give them the title and the salary for the work they've done? 2) It turns out there is a serious salary difference between staff members and staff from outside the institution. Are you going to fix this? 3) Will you pay severance pay for contracted personnel? 4) You are considering a raise in compensation for early retirement. Would you like to project this raise on your pension? You're saying the extra staff will be transferred out of the institution. How many personnel will you send out of the institution? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0103par0152	Mr. Kaleli...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0104par0153	Thank you, Mr. President. In all trade groups and sectors, AKP policies that destroy the smaller, prefer the larger, and expand the larger are opposed to minimizing the state. Business security, security, and understanding that does not ensure justice apply to members of Parliament. Do those who work with that understanding want to be enemies of one another? What exists here is exploitation, persecution by the hand of the state, not human and not right. Wouldn't it save the House's reputation if the work was revalued and the 4/C status was lifted from Parliament? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0105par0156	Mr. Captain? No. Mr. Ayadun...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0106par0158	Mr. President, through you, I'd like to ask the Deputy Speaker the following question: Mr. Vice President has hired his brother-in-law, who is in charge of the legislation and audit, in a department of his own free of examinations. He's been in the national press. Mr. Deputy Secretary-General tells the journalist: "My brother-in-law presented his CV to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey liked and hired him. What's the big deal? Now, I ask Mr. Vice President, do you hire anyone who gives you every CV? If you have such an application, there are 6 million unemployed people in Turkey. And if they send their CV to Parliament, will you employ them without a test? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0105par0160	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0107par0161	Thank you, dear President. There are 25 architects and 62 engineers on the add-on list. The legislature will quit its legislative activity and start construction work from now on? That's one. Second, it's about the disabled. Out of the scope of exceptions, the members of the parliament cannot work. Such an exception has been made. Does that apply to justice, justice, and justice? Three, restoration and service purchase are not subject to public tender provisions 4734. Why would you want to be taken away from this? Do you want to be abducted from inspection? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0108par0166	Mr. Keskin...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0109par0167	Thank you, Mr. President. On November 2, 2011 and the Supreme Assembly of Turkey has been handed over to the Council of Ministers some of the powers of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers has no authority to add to the issues mentioned in this decree. Have the Agency's Law and the Presidential Court been rescinded? Two, a decree of the law has been issued with additional indicators, compensations and bonuses. The additional indicators of personnel currently working at the Turkish Grand National Assembly are higher than the additional indicators in the ordinance of the law. In what way will additional indicators, compensation and bonuses be applied to these personnel as of 15/1/2012?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0110par0171	Mr. Soydan...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0111par0172	Thank you, Mr. President. How many people have been taken to Congress in different positions? Has the Secretary General's brother, the Prime Minister's peasant, been hired in the last two years? Has the communications department been taken over by a geology engineer? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0112par0177	Mr. Ayhan...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0113par0178	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that experienced personnel, knowledgeable personnel in the House should be used more often. Therefore, I would like to know why the chief of the Turkish Grand National Assembly Plan and Budget Commission has changed jobs. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0114par0181	Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0115par0182	Thank you, Mr. President. Are there any new vocational and continuous training programmes for employees of the Turkish National Assembly, especially the assistant staff, to be able to serve better in order to comply with the conditions of the day? Has there been enough funding left in the budget? Will there be support for such matters as professional executive assistants? Will they be given enough support for the certificate? Besides, will the House staff go to a new organization about social solidarity and sharing again? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0116par0187	Mr. Topstone...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0117par0188	Mr. President, when this bill is passed, it is clear that some of the people who have worked for years under the roof of the High Assembly will be eliminated. New staff will be replaced and new employees will be replaced. Now, if these employees are to be taken by the same methods as they have been taken so far, for example, like the week before the elections, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ was hired by his brother, again as chief of Parliamentary Services Directorate before the elections, Konya MP Ayşe Türkmenoglu's brother was taken as chief of the Parliamentary Service Directorate, as well as the brother of his brother-in-law, again, General Secretary-General Sadettin Tetoşa. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...if there will be practices as assigned to the Archives Department, we have seen what innovation this law will bring. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0118par0193	Mr. President, you've had some serious questions. If you'd like, you can share it with the Minister. Who's gonna answer first? If you share five minutes, five minutes...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0119par0195	Mr. President, thank you. I'd also like to thank the members of lawmakers who have raised questions for us. I'd like to start by answering some of the questions Mr. Kaplan asked during his speech. First of all, it is known that the office used by Mr. Prime Minister is not Dolmabahçe Palace, it belongs to Dolmabahçe Palace, it is also known to belong to the mussahiban, the Local Register Office, which has been used as the Beşiktaş subsidiary and population administration, but before that it was assigned to the National Ministry of Defence, which was assigned to the University of Sinan, where it was assigned to the Black Sea Economic Co-operation Parliamentary Assembly, and to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Environment before the AK PARTI Authority. In addition, Mr. Kaplan said that at his meeting on September 5, 2007 and 10/3/10, where Mr. Sakık had also served as chief of management, Mr. Sakık had a positive opinion on the matter.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0120par0199	That's right.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0119par0200	▪ Have the arrested MPs been assigned personnel? Why aren't they paid? The question was asked. The arrested MPs have been assigned these because they have asked for a secretary, Mr Mustafa Ali Balbaya, Mr. Engin Alana and Mr. Mehmet Haberala; on the other hand, those MPs have been charged with their rights and their rights as of 12/6/2011 and have been placed in a trust account to be paid when they perform the sworn duty. The question regarding the exception of Law 4734 is: The exception is related to the restoration of historical and cultural entities built within the national palaces. Under the current law, there are challenges and setbacks in the quality - required restoration work, and there are weaknesses in the preservation of historical heritage. The arrangement is intended to compensate. As for the time-time recruitment questions... it's a case where every political party in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has made demands, whether or not they have their own ruling periods, but they've been evaluated based on their résumés and taken without a test. If we look at the number of staff members from 2002 to 2011: 2,782 in 2002; 2,726 in 2003; 2,655 in 2004; 2,653 in 2005; 2,561 in 2006; 2,636 in 2007; 2,487 in 2008; 2,543 in 2009; 2,573 in 2010 and 2.692. And when we look at the contractors, we see the same line being followed. In 2002, 53 in 2002; in 2007, 70 in 2007; in 2003, 62 in 2003; in 2004, 95 in 2004; in 2005, 117; 124 in 2005; 80; 76; 72 in 70. Number of temps: 1,064 in 2002; 950 in 2003; 1,015 in 2004; 1,003 in 2005; 1,004 in 2006; 1,030 in 2007; 1,331 in 2008; 1,339 in 2009; 1,451 in 2010 and 1,511 in 2011. In accordance with Act 666, you will be informed that the members of Turkey's Grand National Assembly staff will continue to receive their contracts with additional indicator compensations. No change has been made. The authority of the Court is also carried out in Article 26 of the Article 28 of the Law, and also in Article 28 of the Article 28 of the Law. Subsequently, on the other hand, the Council of Ministers has the Office of the Presidential Court on matters related to the TBMM and the Executive Agency, which are required in the rules of law and law. On the other hand, on the other hand, on the 28th Amendments to full staffs and classes may be appointed between classes, titles and degrees of rankings in the free staff. The question about the people of 4/C is that the people of 4/C have received a pension. Their salaries have been raised above their peers; primary school graduates' salaries will be increased by around 2,000 and college graduates' salaries at around $2,300. It is also a fact that the people working at the Turkish Grand National Assembly are also paid about 40 per cent more than those working at other institutions.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0121par0206	I'll answer the others if you want.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0119par0207	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0121par0208	Sir, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Shanal has specifically mentioned whether or not he's working with the disabled staff. In fact, there are more disabled employees working in our Parliament than the law states at this time, I present. In addition, Mr. Adnan Keskin will be kept exactly the same for the current employees... regarding additional indicators, compensation and all other rights. I present him. On the other hand, Mr. Tanal asked, "Where does the engineer work?" Sir, 62 engineers, as you know, there are construction units, national palaces, mansions, brawns, and also parks and gardens, where they need engineers, of course, where they work. I present him. Other than that, there are some other questions, and we'll answer them in writing. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0122par0213	Mr. President, a bunch of our friends here have been asking some very important questions. We want to know if the AKP MPs' brothers and relatives were actually taken without a test. This is not AKP's father's farm. These questions need to be answered.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0123par0214	There's two minutes left.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0122par0215	Yeah, there's still two minutes left. We're looking forward to it. Are these claims really true?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0124par0216	Sir, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0122par0217	If these allegations are true, are these friends considering resigning?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0124par0218	Mr. President, allow me to answer these questions.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0125par0219	The Minister will answer. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0124par0221	There's no way of knowing who we are right now -- who I'm sitting as a representative of the government -- who's next of kin.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0126par0222	That's where the Secretary General lives. Does his brother work here or not? We want an answer to that question.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0124par0223	Of course, we have stated here that we will respond in writing to what we do not know.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0126par0224	Let alone the written answer, we want the answers to these questions.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0124par0225	And that's the way it is, so there's no way to answer what we don't know right now. I think you'll appreciate...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0126par0226	Mr. Secretary General, who has been asked questions, is sitting there. Did he or did he not hire his brother? We want an answer to that question.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0127par0227	He answered, didn't you hear?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0124par0228	We said we'd answer in writing. Please... I think I speak Turkish.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0128par0229	Yeah, they're gonna answer in writing. The negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We will now begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers 1 to 30. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Aydın Ağan Ayadın has asked for a speech on the first chapter. Here you are, Mr. Aya morning.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0129par0237	Mr. President, I have been promised to share with you the views of the Republican People's Party on the first part of the Supreme National Assembly Act 83. I hereby salute your high council. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the highest institution of the people's will. For this reason, the Parliamentary governing body must also be an institutional model for our country. In the past nine years, however, the Turkish Parliament's executive staff has reached 5,389 people today, with 4,100 members of the Parliament disbanded within the framework of friendly, fellow sergeant relations, with no objective criteria. Moreover, they have been handed out without a test, not only to the members of the Parliament, but also to those who deserve to be chiefs and directors, but to those who don't. In this period, some say 800, some say a thousand people were hired in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which turned out to be Turkey's most inefficient KİT. Claims that some MPs have relatives, others spouses and friends are voiced out. The list of members of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which is closely related to the MP and other politicians, is passed on. I'm sure that list of shames that reached out to me has reached out to you as well. It is extremely wrong for politicians to do so. What would the House bureaucrats do if politicians did that? They have a lot of examples, but one of them's a joke. Just recently, a national newspaper reported that Turkish National Assembly Deputy Secretary General İrfan Neziroglu's first move was to hire his brother-in-law without a test. Mr. Neziroğlu, look at the journalist who explained this: the MEClis authorities looked at my brother-in-law's CV...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0130par0241	The president took it, President. How inappropriate!
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0129par0242	He liked it and hired it. What's the big deal? There are 10 million real unemployed people in Turkey, and the Turkish Grand National Assembly is looking at their CV? However, Mr. Secretary General's request has been approved, but the demands of people who are unemployed in Turkey are being rejected. There's also the Public Officers' Ethics Board in our country, and he's just watching this kind of thing. Turkey's Grand National Assembly has the Upstruction Act on its website, which says that when employees should carry certain conditions and take the test and win, they should be chiefs, while so far, no tests have been taken except by a single test, but some untalented and untalented officers have been appointed as chief of special pens, who have been appointed without an exception staff, and have been promoted in the same way. Some officers with talent and integrity and no uncles are starting to count the days of retirement before they can even become chiefs. Unfortunately, all of these practices undermine the reputation of our pupil, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and therefore the political institution. For this reason, the new chairman of our Parliament, Mr. Cemil Cicek, is asked to be transformed back into a model public institution by making a new organization law that we believe is entirely in good faith. Sadly, however, we see that the coming point does not serve Mr. Cicek. Because the law proposal that we're now discussing, unfortunately, despite the commission's best efforts and contributions, the pressure of lobbying has been turned into a bird before the law, with the higher maneuverability of some active bureaucrats in the House. Despite all our suggestions and warnings, this text is nothing more than a text that ignores law, justice, democratic principles. While you valued lawmakers can't change a word of this law, the House bureaucrats I've been talking about can make any changes they want freely. Where's the national will? What you see behind me is the unconditionalness of the nation. I want to share with you my belief that the statement of the government must be changed into the form of the Parliamentary bureaucrats. The legislature, which is the noble function of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, is an unrequited area in the private sector. In this framework, it is extremely difficult to open the way for the Deputy Secretary General and Secretary General to be appointed from the private sector without working in public. In addition, these are authorities that require special knowledge, skill, and experience. No matter how successful the private sector is, there is no chance of success in these tasks by someone who has no experience of government experience or, in particular, of legislature activity. For these reasons, it is a problem to bring personnel from the private sector to the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Secretary General and Secretary General's Offices without the need for public work. It is a pity that the staff of the Turkish Grand National Assembly is taken into a pool and then eliminated by the torpedoes and then allowed to be sent to other public institutions and organizations. This practice is a lawless and unfair thing, which is also included in Law 2919. Law number 2919 is a product of the coup period, and such an application is only possible in the arbitrary authorities who have rejected democracy. Sadly, the same practice is required today. That's it, forward democracy! With this arrangement, the House will be able to sever the ties of any member of his staff to the Parliament and send it to another institution. It is a sin, as it is not fair, to pay the price for such wrong practices in the administration of personnel, for years dedicated to the service of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. It's called the right of the slave. The agreement on the work bases of contracted personnel to be employed to assist commissioners and lawmakers is breaking down the working peace. This is no doubt an equal wage for equal work among the staff who are doing the same work. It is not appropriate for understanding or justice. Because a staff assigned as public advisers will receive 20 per cent more than the staff of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which is doing the same thing. In fact, the same service to the MP is victimised by the parliamentary staff, which serves as assistant advisors, while staff members are the main element of our Parliament. Under any circumstances for years, it would be disloyal to victimise staff members who have served this great institution. Some experts, who will be employed by public office, will not be paid any fee in parliament, will be a problem for those who are qualified to come to parliament. Because the staff who collects the fees predicted in this clause from its own institution will not come to the Parliament and will continue its fee at the institution. In our country, 4/C status has become a bleeding wound. It has become a common practice to employ temporary and unsecured workers in the sighting of public services that are essential and sustainable. Sadly, even in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where we are now under its roof, there are hundreds of workers employed at 4/C status. Whatever the purpose of this subcontractor system is, it is clear that it has strayed from its purpose, and has become a new way of a ruthless, unlawful work in the public. In case of unemployment... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Yes, I wish this law to be good for our country and our nation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0131par0255	Thank you, Counting Moon. Mr Mehmet Günal of Antalya on behalf of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0132par0258	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. My dear friends, first of all, I'm going to talk about what I'm going to talk about at the end, because if I don't run out of time at 7:00, then I won't be able to tell them when it's not. First of all, when that stuff comes in, we have a motion, but when it gets there...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0133par0261	Half an hour, half an hour...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0132par0262	No, Mr. President, I have something to say in the relevant article, but I'd like to say some of it here. We have a motion there. First of all, that's why I said what I said last time. I'll start by sending my websites to the Speakership and the TRT General Directorate from here.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0134par0264	We're all sending it.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0132par0265	A member of our government is here, and Mr. Secretary is here. I don't see how that's an understanding. You've already shut up the opposition. There's no publication after seven. It's good. So let's work until morning. What does that mean? So the same thing today, when you were spreading it out in two days? We have a petition commission, we have the Human Rights Commission, we have the Human Rights Commission. Mr. Chancer just said, we can't protect our own law, we've given up our rights, we can't regulate our working conditions. When we say that, we can't announce it to the citizens. Don't publish the group meetings. It's good. The Prime Minister is already talking everywhere, the ministers are talking everywhere.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0135par0266	He's transmitting from prayer, even from the mosque.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0132par0267	Well, the opposition has already announced its voice in the House, and we've cut it off. That's why I started from the beginning by saying that. What I'm about to say, our valued citizens won't hear because TBMM will have cut the TV broadcast, thanks to you. I mean, a general manager...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0136par0268	It's enough for you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0132par0269	No, it's enough for me now, but when the 15th article arrives soon, the TBMM broadcast will be finished, and the broadcast will be cut off from TBMM TV. That's why I said the phrase here. Dear friends, I said the House can't exercise its authority. We're discussing an Agency Law Proposal for employees here. We met at the commission, the subcommittee, and we said that there was a decree study in a law order, that Mr. Cicek was there when the budget was being discussed, and I said: Mr. President, we're hearing about this. In a day or two, something like this is going to come out, and there shouldn't be Parliament and the presidency. Why did we say that? Because the bill was asked by Mr. Cicek (Mr. Cicek) when the bill of authority was discussed in the rule of law, and when he was criticized as such, he said: "Friends, now, there is the issue of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the presidency. And do you need him? If there is, we can fix it with the motion downstairs. But what we said here is to redefine the distribution of public services between ministries. We refer to the relevant law. Now, since we've organized between the ministries -- look, Mr. Cicek is singing, I'm not saying -- he's going to be tied to the presidency and the Parliamentary presidency -- he's not going to be attached to the Parliamentary presidency. The president's business is the services of the House. So, we didn't need to write it down, but if there really is a need after that explanation, at least here it's written down. The past, again, I've spent one more time saying it. Well, it's been two days, three days, and then there's a warrant in the law. Now, my dear friends, in no way are any of us able to maintain our rights, all 550 MPs. You only had the authority to lift your finger, and he went with the law, and there's no such thing. Concerning the administration of all Turkey, issues concerning the staff of the ministries, concerns the staff regime, are being signed in a hurry. Some ministers don't even know the specifics of the arrangement, and we learn from arguing in the Commission. We find the arrangement difficult even by searching for seven or eight separate subsections, even within the rule of law. He's become so powerful that our authority has been compromised. Mr. Mehmet Ali Şahin, our former Parliament Speaker, came to us during talks with the Commission on the proposal of the law, and, as I have just told you, he has the right to rule in such an arrangement. Of course, he said that when he was talking to the Ministry of Health about the transfer of the TBMM chieftainship to the Ministry of Health, but what he said, basically, we agree completely. It says here: "This is the legislature; a separate man whose will, the will of the nation, is a man who conducts legislatures, and that's exactly what it says, Mr. President, is a separate force. (The principle of separation of forces states that we must be meticulous in order to regulate the duties and responsibilities of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. He says he's our former Speaker. So, what do we do? Again, we are trying to correct some of the things that have already been arranged here in each form in the KHK. We supported him. It says: "First of all, you insert one of the executive body into the responsibilities of the Assembly here, and you appoint one. As a result -- again, I repeat his last statement to you -- I ask that all of our members of the Commission, our members of the ruling party, and our members of our opposition parties, show good intentional precision to prevent rapes in this area. I ask you to comply with the wishes of Mr. Mehmet Ali Şahin. So, what did we say? So, come, let's talk here from the beginning of the decree 666. When this law of authority was discussed -- you were here, and our minister of interest was here, and our Deputy Speaker of Parliament was here -- we said again: "Come, let's start from here. How do you regulate parliament's rights and authority with the KHK? Dear friends -- we have friends who aren't here -- last year when we discussed a bill of law enforcement authority. The council must first arrange these things, my dear friends. He was sent to Parliament on the same day. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey meets these KHKs, they can, they can, they can, they can, they can, they can, they can, they can, they can't, they're not coming, they're getting our authority. So let's say at least 666 examples of what we're dealing with, and let's start with the first one. This is your jurisdiction, Mr. Vice President. Parliamentary office will bring up that SEC, and we'll discuss it, and we'll take the House out of it. I mean, there's something so strange, dear friends, that when we were talking about staff things here, for example, I said, there were 62 engineers, 25 architecture staffs, did you know that? They've cut down to one and it's down to 61. I asked him many times if he would come. He still hasn't come. What does Congress do with so many engineers? I mean, what does he do with 25 architects outside the parking lot? I said, "Has the council become a TOKI?" YOU know that's the way the TOCIRE needs. I swear, even TOKI was afraid to be with the Clave. Our friends have offered us the law, and they say, "Don't let the KHK be subject to this KHK. " Mr. Vice President, do you copy? TOKI doesn't want to be in the same position as us. Congress can't defend its rights. Two of our fellow lawmakers don't bring the thing about Congress, but there are one or two other provisions of the Public Housing Administration's presidency -- they say, "Let's not be judged by this law." So...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0137par0279	And national education...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0132par0280	There's national education, there's police, I know, there's three items in between. TOKI doesn't want to be subject to this law, but we, as Congress, are passing on our authority, as always. Dear friends, we've actually joined the health department here, and even in the event of the transfer of these staffs, we've asked the Ministry of Health to at least assign them to the next work. The training director's office is separate. We said it's a separate activity. But they did it their way. They put it together with the research, and it didn't happen. Now there were studies of the Library and the Archives, and we hear they've been resected. About the publication, we said it would be published and published. At least if TBM isn't broadcasting TRT TV on another TV, you're going to get out, just as if you're bidding on game broadcasts, you're going to come in, you're going to publish a special TV. Don't look at it. It's a very simple business. There are so many men who are interested in watching the agenda of the House, that if it doesn't break the highest ratings -- I promise here -- I'll resign the next day. Here, put it on a special TV, see who's being watched more often. So you don't have to shut us up after seven. He doesn't give TRT, he watches it on that special channel. So we said all of that, but now they're saying that they're trying to cancel with some motions again. I'm afraid I can't agree with that. Resolve the injustice between the staff, eliminate the injustice between the titles, and make these arrangements, and be just, as you are called. At least have a heart to call the Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0138par0286	We are, no doubt!
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0139par0287	We're fair, we're fair...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0140par0288	Thank you, Mr. Günal. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Sırrı Sakık. Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0141par0292	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Yeah, I mean, it's not fair to take the diva's authority with a decree in law enforcement, but it had to start somewhere. Ben, you have good intentions here because if we travel from the past to the dream of a trace, I'm going to share it with you in a moment. But while we were just answering a segregation of our Speaker of Parliament, our Group President, there was a meeting on the court, so should the Prime Minister be included in Dolmabahçe or not? The Republican People's Party and the People's Movement Party had resisted, and they could not provide a reason, but the same soldiers were serving in Dolmabahçe, where they had their place. It belongs to the House, and the National Palaces belong to the House, but when it was called a place for the Prime Minister, they went to hell. So I said, that's a crime against democracy, a sin. If the soldiers are sitting there, a Prime Minister of Parliament, a representative of the people, should be able to sit there. That's what I'm saying today. In fact, I said I wish that all three parties would be in power and their president would sit there. So today, if something like this happens...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0142par0294	Which Court?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0141par0295	It happened in the past tense.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0142par0296	So remind him.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0141par0297	Yeah. Now, if that happens again, we'll stand by the same decision. Dear friends, I've been on the Court for two semesters, witnessing what's going on. Now, from 2007, between 09/08/2007-09/08/2009, I will give you no comment on what kind of farm logic it was led by. For example, he says staff, transfer 92, 33 off the grid. Where did who come from? There were questions from the opposition just now, and that's what's coming out of the open. That's 125, contract personnel 2, which is at this center, temporary staff 305, total 432. Again, 15 in the national palaces, 4 in the open, 19 in total, 134 in the temps, 153 in total. Members of staff from the Central National Palaces have been taken from the open by 107, 37, or relatives, totalling 144, and 585 staff in two years. Most of them are temporary. The vast majority of our colleagues here have said that the temporarys are a victim. Yes, the real employee, the people who serve you in the lobby, the people who serve you in the restaurant are victims, but most of the people who come with torpedoes -- I'm telling you in the name of God -- they only come here to get paid, a lot of them. Look into it. From the past until now, children of the Deputy Speaker, or relatives of the Speaker of Parliament, or relatives of some, or even commissions here, I suggest you set up commissions here. You put in a language condition and you got it, but it doesn't speak a language. Speciality is not an expert. You've filled the council with these staffs. Now, our Speaker, I believe that he did this in order to undo this injustice, and from now on, if he's going to undo this injustice, we're going to be there for him. It's up to all of us to protect the victims' rights, but to keep the ones who don't deserve it from here. Our Speaker, I'm sure, did this out of intent. Otherwise, the law is so clear that he has the authority to hire 534 people, 538 people, or 85 people in two years as much as he wishes. But I believe Mr. Cemil Cicek would have a conscience in this matter. I hope these studies will be in that direction. Now, look, dear friends, for example, the vast majority of temporary workers, the position of the veterans is the same as the position of the BDP Group. We are the 4/C people of this Parliament, and we are being applied to whatever is applied to them. For example, the counselors have rooms in front of our group. Ten of our group's employees are in a small room, but the counselors' room is locked three hundred and sixty-five days a year, but they come from month to month, they get paid. So this Parliament has seen this. Now, for example, this Parliament can't protect its own law. Look, there's nothing really solid about your real estate work. What's he afraid of? Last semester was a study. Some parties, for the sake of populist politics... he already has no such demand, he's hired a president, he's victimised the parliamentary group and they're scared, they're afraid of the media. Now, we know this media, we know that your hand is dirty, so come and answer for this money, so you're taking the million dollars. This Parliament should be able to account for them, but it can make headlines with the duties of lawmakers. But Parliament has to be able to take a stand against that, take care of its own law. Look, it's 91 years. We have friends who were elected members of parliament in '91. Mr. Hatip Dicle, Mr. Leyla Zana -- came this semester, she got the right -- Mr. Sedat Citizen, the late Orhan Doğan MP, the law is clear. When he was supposed to take advantage of his pension, that dark hand that was unknown, I mean, clearly, the epaulettes ordered the pensioner's Ark, including these people, me, that these people can't take advantage of the Retirement Chest. We've arrived, we've applied to Parliament, but Parliament is segregating, and the Speakers have not moved. For example, I've retired four times. I'm retiring, and a few months later, I accidentally retire again a year later, and then again, I pay the money I get with interest, I pay the dues again. I've retired four times in a row. Where? Our friends from the Social Insurance Association, but working with me, have retired from Parliament, and now Hatip Dicle can't benefit from his pension, Sedat Citizen can't benefit from it, they've been elected MPs for a period. The children of the late Orhan Doğan are unable to benefit. Is it so unfair, so unfair? I mean, they've been acting as surrogates for a while, and their rights are being hijacked and the gods are coming in, and the Retirement Ark says: "Why are you pushing us, my friends?," he says. He's applying for counsel, the State's decision is in favour. Two this time. They're applying for an apartment. 2. Who's the apartment? So, from where did they get a lot of people from MIT, they're making a decision on their own behalf, and they're ignoring the will of the people. Now, we share them with you because we've met them one-on-one. This could happen to you. Many of our friends have faced this in the past. To that end, Parliament must immediately eliminate its own law, and the second must establish its own law. Our friends who have been victims of this 4/C. And I wish you, from all three groups, from all four groups, to make up for this injustice. A meeting could be held in a hurry before the law can be negotiated. I mean, with the consultants, the assistants, you've eliminated this illegality, and you've done well. Well, four groups of these 4/C Boys can come together immediately, and they can eliminate this injustice. If he lifts these, I'm sure you'll get a prayer. I want to thank you all for these feelings.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0143par0309	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kubat on behalf of Justice and Development Party Group.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0144par0311	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the Supreme National Assembly of Turkey's Executive Service Law Proposal, 83 seats under discussion. Dear lawmakers, legislatures form independent administrative agencies to provide support services they need while carrying out their own activities. The legislatures have to have a much more efficient, fast and flexible administrative organisation than other public institutions and institutions because of their non-orientific and unique way of working. This fact is clearly seen in Western countries. In order to ensure that legislation and control activities, which are the main activities of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, can be carried out more effectively and efficiently, it is of great importance to establish an organisational structure that has provided it with the necessary support for it during these activities, and to have the necessary equipment and staff available at any moment as quality and quantity. From April 23, 1920, when our Parliament was established in our country, an administrative organization such as this had been established and has continued its services to this day. The Law of 2919, dated October 13, 1983, and the establishment of the Grand National Assembly's General Secretaryship of Turkey, were organised by its duties and powers. In this Law, the main organisation envisioned unit managers as executive units and envisioned a structure of three of our current Deputy Secretary Generals and above them, to coordinate between these unit managers. A new structure has been needed to support legislation and control activities, which are the main activities of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which can be carried out in a more efficient and efficient way, based on a full consensus of services for these two activities, and to help create a strong institutional structure and memory. When Western countries are looked at, unlike ours, their administrative body structures appear to be a model, a smaller scale of structures, a model, in terms of hierarchical deceleration and administrative units that require the number of employees. And with this arrangement brought against these fundamental realities, instead of executive directors, we've moved on to a presidential style model. The current law, which has been lifted because some units have lost their function, has been merged because of the conflict of their field, and, in addition to the needs of the day, a number of new units have been envisioned in the new arrangement. The main purpose of the arrangement is to ensure that the services needed for the Turkish Parliament in law and control activities are qualified, efficient and efficient. While these services are primarily intended for legislation and control activities, some of them contribute directly to legislation and control, others provide indirectly support. The main objective in this arrangement is to organise the organisation, task, authority and responsibilities of the administrative agency, which will directly and indirectly contribute to services needed in Turkey's efforts to the Grand National Assembly. To this end, this proposal, consisting of 44 essentials and 12 interim substances, has been presented to our great House. In Article 3 of the proposal, the duties of the new body's administrative body are generally considered to be the main part of the proposal. These mission definitions are based on the understanding of the Turkish Grand National Assembly to actively present services needed while carrying out legislation, control and representation functions. In the following articles, the principal structure of the administration of the governing body is the administrative body of the governing body. According to the regulation brought into Article 4, this administrative agency is directly linked to the Speaker of Parliament, along with the Secretary General and his directly-connected units, under which four assistant secretary general, four assistant secretary general, and was designed to form a presidential organisation in the form of deputy general secretary. In Article 25 of the Law proposal, the basis for the transfer of top executives to the lower levels of this organization has been laid. The 28th article, again, envisioned the norm staff basis in the Turkish Parliament's executive office, and the procedures and foundations for the appointments on the basis of this norm staff have been decided on Article 29. In Article 29, the Deputy Secretary-General and Secretary-Generals of Turkey, the Chief of Staff of the Grand Assembly of Turkey, and the Chief of Staff and Chief of Staff of Chief of Staff of Chief Staff of Staff of Turkey, have been decided to be appointed directly by the Speaker of Parliament at the proposal of the Secretary General, and it has also been predicted that the President may hand over this authority to the Secretary General. As an important innovation here, the management agency's norm-based arrangement is being made, while the rule is to appoint these staffs through the examination, and the road to opening or transfer from other institutions has been closed. Thus, there has been a serious arrangement for the employment of qualified personnel. In Article 30, there is a decision on whether the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey or the 17 occupational commissions established according to our Charter, both our political party groups and us lawmakers employ contract staff. Here, the new arrangement also allows our MPs to work under contract as advisors, assistant advisors and an additional staff. I wish you all the best of the law, with the idea that these provisions will provide the support services that the Turkish Parliament needs to carry out law and control activities.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0145par0329	Thank you, Mr. Kubat. First word on behalf of individuals, İstanbul MP Aydın Aghan Ayadın. Here you are, Mr. Aya morning.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0146par0332	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have been promised to share my personal views on Law Proposal 83. I hereby salute your high council. Law 2919 on the organisation of the Turkish Grand National Assembly is a product of the period of coup. In particular, in the past nine years, Turkey's Grand National Assembly has turned into a complex, unfair, weak institutional structure. In fact, today the organization is, in effect, the country's largest CIT. Unfortunately, Turkey is a law that does not suit the Grand National Assembly. The review of this law is very accurate, very accurate. However, when the law is passed, we need to be more just, to be on the staff's side, and to be careful that there is no distinction between employees. Such a change should be thought about, with a participating understanding of the new organization's law, it should come out in line with the opinions and suggestions of all political party groups and relevant experts. A contrary arrangement will not form a permanent, old, and healthy organization, nor will it even respond to needs. In the preparation of this law proposal, participation is not accepted, but in fact, what organization structure is requested, I think, is not fully known by the authors. For this reason, the text of the law proposal has been subjected to a lot of changes at every stage. The draft sent to political party groups, the draft that came to the Plan and Budget Commission, the text that came after the subcommittee, and when we finally get the final text that we're talking about, it will be clear that, without thinking of a permanent, radical, healthy system, there is a rush to save the day. However, even though we agreed on certain issues during the subcommittee work, the Plan Budget High Commission eventually suspended him from these texts. However, whatever happened, the subcommittee text, the Plan and Budget Commission, has been rendered unrecognizable in our view, with dozens of motions issued during their talks. Now, I'd like to ask you, dear lawmakers, who bypassed the subcommittee text for what purposes? What bureaucratic disputes did the nation's representatives write? If that's the way it's gonna work, why waste time and effort on the subcommittee? If you'd called your precious bureaucrats, they'd have written it anyway. This is the account of the bureaucrats, wherein is much injustice and injustice. As a matter of fact, I can't help but say that we'll soon have to work overtime again in time to correct the distorted structure that would appear in the event of such legislation. Dear lawmakers, the Presidential Court must publish and publish the group meetings of political party groups and the General Assembly meetings until the talks are over. The work of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which reflects the will of the people, must be delivered to the public without any restrictions, and the public must be aware of its own future. What's wrong with the public watching the assembly work? What are you afraid of, the truth, the truth? For years, Parliament TV has been transporting the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly, the parties' group meetings and commission meetings. Our citizens who want to follow the work of parliament watch them, and they have a sense of the work of political parties, but now the screens of Parliament TV have gone black. According to an agreement between Turkey's Grand National Assembly and TRT, Parliament TV will broadcast only on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays between 3:00 and 1900 p.m. But didn't this deal go on for nine years from 2002 to 2011? Why is the TV channel showing the work of opposition parties being shut down? Is this your idea of advanced democracy? The limitation of parliamentary TV broadcasts does not suit Parliament, democracy and our country. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish all of you the good fortune of our law.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0147par0343	Thank you, Mr. Ayadun. On behalf of the individuals, the last word belongs to Mr. Fikri Illum. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0148par0347	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of my own people on the proposal of the Supreme National Assembly of Turkey Law, 83 rows. I hereby salute the High Council. My dear friends, no doubt we're doing a very important job. We've been working together with this administrative structure of our Parliament, which has not been touched since 1983, which is almost the product of an extraordinary period, and we're implementing a very important reform about it. At this point, it's a tremendous joy that the House has agreed to all parties in the House. We should really aim not to see this as enough for the 24th term, and then, at the point that the members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey have a law of their own, we should also focus on what Mr. Şandir has been insisting on here. To the 24th term Parliament, this Parliament, I hope, will have a new constitution and a whole new parliamentary charter, and it will have an important place in the history of the republic, with the new constitution, new civil code and parliamentary law. My dear friends, I don't have to go on and on about what this new law proposal brings, making significant changes, bringing reforms needed to ensure that the House is faster and better functioning. Maybe one of the important points here is the staff. Yes, I'm afraid our coven has already taken almost every one of their staff without an exam. But this is not just a method adopted by the AK PARTY. Now, with the will of the EC PARTY and the general will of our Parliament, we are limiting it to an extreme.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0149par0350	After the staff's full. We're out of staff.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0148par0351	Apart from the much-needed issues, there is now a non-tested recruitment out of the exceptional staff. Of course, it's a win-win wherever it comes from. My dear friends, but there's one thing I have to stress in particular, a political ethics: it's not political ethics to leave people on the floor of the House who have no way of saying what they're saying by name. As a member of parliament was making his speech earlier, he said that I knew him well and had entered parliament more than 20 years ago and that he had hired his brother-in-law by mentioning the name of Sir Irfan Neziroğlu, who came to the position of Assistant Secretary General today with real sweat. My dear friends, we are politicians; believe in the evil we do to ourselves, another person, group or institution cannot do to us. Either friends, does it have to mean that someone close to a politician is bad, or does it mean that someone close to a bureaucrat has to be bad, incompetent, incompetent, without a driver's license?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0150par0354	He's critical of the way, not the way he's coming; the way he's deflecting.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0148par0355	Look, there's a fundamental rule of logic: missing information is wrong. Mr. Congressman came out here, said our esteemed bureaucrat's brother-in-law was hired without a test. It's like everyone's been tested before this, and this friend of ours got hired without a test. So, what was it about? He's not saying that. I'll tell you what it's about: this is our friend's brother-in-law, Mustafa Çakmakcı, who is the sworn Arabic-Ostian translator. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey also needs eight employees in Ottoman -- especially -- archives -- to be announced, and at the end of this announcement, our friend is applying, as every citizen of the Republic of Turkey has done, and in the final evaluations, the president decides that our friend is not a bureaucrat, but a bureaucrat who can do this job, and he decides and hires it. Now, fellas, what's wrong with that? I mean, we're, we're... guys, look, go back to your own group. Is the son of Mr. Kamer Young taken by examination in this Parliament today? Has the wife of our Enlightenment MP Metin Lütfi Baydar been tested in this Parliament? Mr. Muharrem, the counselor of Encel, was he taken by examination in this Parliament? Which one of these was taken on the test, and the only one who didn't get the test... is my last word: let's not fill it out. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0151par0359	Can you get a geology engineer to the I.T. Center?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit03spe0152par0360	Thank you, Mr. Light. It's 20 o'clock for the merger. I'm taking a break until 00.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0152par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 26th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations on the articles of Law Proposal 83. Commission? Here. Representative of the Presidential Court? Here. There's a motion on Article 8 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Executive Service Act, Number 2/92, President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, 8th District of Turkey. With respect, we offer and offer that the clause (a) be replaced as follows. (a) Keeping a record of permanent and other commissions' talks with the General Assembly talks, making it available online immediately without delay. Keeping a summary of the report and preparing the TBM Journal for printing. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Bült Kuşoglu Prof. Dr. ♪ Good morning to you ♪ Dr. Aytun Çıray Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu Sinan Aygün Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0153par0016	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0152par0017	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0154par0018	We can't agree.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0152par0019	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0155par0020	I'll do the talking.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0152par0021	Mr. Ilhan Demiröz is a member of the Fellowship.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0155par0022	Mr. President, I'm here to give you my opinion on the Supreme National Assembly of Turkey's 83 rows, the Executive Service Law Proposal, and the amendment to Article 8 (a) joke. I salute you all with respect and love. Dear friends, I salute you with the longing of the days when we will breathe together in the autumn of Ankara. Eleven seasons have passed since I left Ankara with the police on a snowy winter day, and four digits have reached the number. I'm living my share of the common destiny that our intellectuals share throughout history. Under the guidance of this truth, I try to turn the walls of Silivri to the blackboard and complete the rest of my training. Dear friends, ever since Mithat Pasha, we've been living the longest-term political case in this land. We're in the middle of a period when the trial process becomes a direct punishment. It's all out in the open, like everything's transparent, but the truth just doesn't come out. When the Silivri archives are opened in the future, they will be seen with documents of legal and political defamation. When the Silivri archives are opened in the future, it will be seen that the feelings that people are most sensitive to will be punished by making accusations over their most valued thoughts. When the Silivri archives are opened in the future, it will be seen that the principle of the law, which is the most fundamental principle of innocence, has turned into a law of conviction. When the Silivri archives are opened in the future, it will be revealed that the scaled law statue was not only in the eyes, but also in a period when the ears and mouth were closed. When the Silivri archives are opened in the future, the most important health problem in prisons will be legal failure. Dear friends, this is the land of those who resist persecution. It's the land where the rise of those who glorify the struggle against the despots, humanity, and civilization. I'm glad I could be a drop in this long river of history. Binler is not just the expression of imprisonment, but the determination to imagine a beautiful Turkey, the fighting force. Binler is also the expression of the determination to walk without rest to reach the goals set by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Once again, I greet you with these feelings. Wishing to meet in freedom, longing for the days when we would stand side by side... Yes, I know my time is short, but I'd like to use the following statements regarding this law: When we look at the Turkish Executive Service's Proposal, it seems to be intended to remove some personnel, create new staffs and make partisan appointments rather than to make an arrangement. In the coming days, we will all see what is to be done about it in order to reach that conclusion. I served for thirty-three years as an agricultural high engineer in public. During that time, I encountered various powers and different practices. Land Water has been shut down, Village Services has been shut down. I know that there's a lot of work to be done by friends who have worked, worked, done weddings, and have been suspended from the workplace for many years. We have seen that it is not appropriate for these people to be removed from this department, but also in the province's private administrations. It is clear that the same game will now be held at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Therefore, everyone must make an effort to be precise and unsettled about the proposal of the law. I salute you all with love. Thank you very much, thank you, exist.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0156par0037	Thank you, Mr. Irony. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 12 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Agreement of the 83 Terms of Turkey's Grand National Assembly of Turkey Executive Service Act 12th. Article 1 of the article. We provide and propose that dbendi be removed from the text of matter, with the description of his joke. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Prof. Dr. Aydın Ayya morning Süleyman Çelebi Ali Riza Özturk Musa Çam Bkent Kuşoğlu Kazim Kurt Osman Aydın Haluk Ahmet Silver Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0157par0055	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0156par0056	Does the presidency agree?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0158par0057	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0159par0058	Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0156par0059	Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0160par0060	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party on the 12th amendment of the current bill. I salute you all. My dear friends, we are here to discuss first the proposal of a law on the establishment of a Parliament that cannot uphold its rights and law. The purpose of these negotiations, the laws imposed, is to protect rights and law. Lawmakers who can't defend their rights in a society can't protect the rights of the people at all. A Turkish Grand National Assembly, unable to uphold its rights, cannot uphold the law of its national will. Today, this Parliament has the right to use the legal authority of eight MPs, who are indeed its own members, under Article 7 of the Constitution, under the obligation of the Constitution, and is also under the duty of law enforcement of law enforcement lawmakers, as a result of the judgment of the judiciary and the disability of the legislature, unable MPs to perform their duties here. Today, eight MPs from the Republican People's Party -- two MPs from the Republican People's Party, one MP from the National Movement Party and five independent MPs -- are indeed under arrest, and the national will itself is under arrest. As we live today, this parliament's main opposition Republican People's Party can prepare a trial for the removal of its immunity due to its criticism of the Deputy Director of the Group. Where does a prosecutor get this courage, my dear friends, that he can arrange immunity for the MP of a political party who wants to take power in the near election instead of him? Today, a prosecutor who orchestrated such a complaint about him may well hold a trial against someone else. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is unable to carry out its mandate. He used to do it crippled and broken. The legislation and proposals that were often prepared were often discussed in commissions and in the General Assembly, as if they were being discussed and passed the law so that the custom would be fulfilled, but were not able to use the authority to pass the law under the decree issued recently. It remains the right and authority of lawmakers to conduct inspections. One of the most important elements of his right to control and authority is to ask questions, to make a question proposal. Thanks to him, the Parliament passed over the rights of these MPs to the Department of Laws and Decisions. Our fellow officers there have become auditing the rights of lawmakers. Is it possible to accept that, my dear friends? Thus, the question motions, one of the methods of parliamentary law enforcement, are actually blocked because they're all coming back. First of all, in order for us to uphold the law of this House, to maintain the dignity of this House, this House has to uphold its own law, its own right. There is only one reason why all the events in this country today are undermining the rule of injustice and unlawfulness. Each and every institution must bravely uphold its rights, its law, its injustices, and its unlawfulness. On this occasion, Republican People's Party MP Mustafa Balbay, whose 1,000th day in the cell at Silivri, has been crippled by lawmakers, TK prisoners, MPs... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...from the Ergenekon case to the arrested MPs, I'm sending my regards to Engin Alan, who's under arrest for the Sledgehammer case. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0161par0071	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 13 that I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 83 S. We propose and propose that Article 13 of the Numbered Law Proposal (a) be replaced as follows. Nurettin Canikli Mustafa Kalaycı Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Ahmet Aydın Türkan Dağoğlu Zeynep K. He's good. ίa) Law enforcement experts are able to conduct objective research on legislation and control activities and submit them to the information of lawmakers and commissions. Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0162par0085	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0161par0086	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0163par0087	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0164par0088	Motive...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0161par0089	Read the reason. As with other law-enforcement agencies working, it is clear that the tasks specified will be carried out through law enforcement experts. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes in the accepted framework of the motion: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 14 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first clause of Article 14 of Law Offer 83 be added to the bell below, and the bent numbers be identified accordingly, following the (d) bell. Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Şandir ▪ Bringing documents and documents from foreign and domestic archives and libraries that are important in the history of parliament into the archive Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0165par0103	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0161par0104	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0166par0105	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0167par0106	Mr. Mehmet Erdogan will speak.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0161par0107	Mr. Mehmet Erdogan. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0168par0110	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group regarding the motion that we're currently negotiating regarding the law. I salute your high council. As you know, the Parliament archive contains all information and documents from the founding of the republic in the Turkish Grand National Assembly archives. However, a lot of information and documents from the period before the founding of the republic are not in the archives of our Parliament about parliaments formed after the end of the Ottoman decree of Islam, as well as of the establishment of the republic. In addition to the duties listed in the archives of foreign and domestic countries, in the Ottoman archives, in the republic's archives, in the French archives, in the introduction of documents not included in the archives of the Turkish Grand National Assembly into the archive of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, it is important that our Parliament be given a mission to the archive and library office. If this mission can be given by adding a joke, if it is accepted by the great Parliament, then the need for archive travel will no longer be needed for scientists to write the history of Parliament, and all the information and documents they seek will be found in the archives of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and the archives of the Turkish Parliament will have gained considerable wealth. We demand that this joke be added to the 14th article, added to this article by the joint proposal of all parties and by the participation of all parties. I wish to welcome everyone to this fine service, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0169par0114	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes in the accepted draft framework: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are four motions on the 15th article. I'll have the motions read according to the order of the arrival first, and then I'll process it in order of the anomaly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 15 of the proposal for the Law on the Executive Service as President of the Supreme National Assembly of Turkey, which is currently held at 83 Rows. Article 1. We offer and propose the addition of the phrase "transfer" after the term "political party group meetings" in the context of the joke. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Prof. Dr. Aydın Ayyadın Ali Riza Özturk Süleyman Çelebi Musa Çam Bkent Kuşoğlu Kazim Kurt Haluk Ahmet Ihsan Ihsan Özkes Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first clause (d) of Article 15 of Law Proposal 83 be changed in the following manner. Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Şandir Oktay Vural Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal "d) Whether to broadcast or broadcast political party group meetings live through the General Assembly talks." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 83 S. We offer and propose that the 15th amendment of the Numbered Law Proposal (d) be changed to the right. Hasip Kaplan Pervin Buldan Nursel Aydoğan Secrets by Dareyya Leader Secret by Sakık Demir Steel "d) To publish or publish the general council talks and political party group meetings uninterrupted." Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 83 S. We propose and propose that the 15th article (d) of the Numbered Law Proposal should be replaced as follows, added to the clause below, and later identified. Ahmet Aydın M. Belma Line From Light Glorious Zeynep Armazan Nice Ekrem Çelebi Tulay Kaynarca Nureddin Nebati Salih Big Abdulkerim Sky Mehmet Doğan Kubat Tülay Selamoğlu ▪ to publish the General Assembly talks. At the Museum of the Liberation War (First Turkey Grand National Assembly), to perform all museum services, to promote the museum's national and international services, to do or to do such activities, to co-operate with relevant organisations in cultural areas, to conduct the museum's other technical services related to repairs, restoration, exhibitions and museumism, if necessary, with the Chief Secretary-General of the National Palaces. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0170par0154	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0169par0155	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0171par0156	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0169par0157	Read the reason. Since the publication of political party group meetings can be carried out with protocols, the decision to remove it from the text is 1st, which has been under the administration of the TBMM since 2009 and is currently under the administration of the Press and Public Relations Directorate. This motion was made to clarify which office the Museum of the Salvation War will belong to and what the mission to the museum will be. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. With the motion adopted earlier (d) bendi has completely changed, there is no way to process other proposals. I'm removing these three motions from the process. In accordance with the motion adopted on Article 15, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 16 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In Article 17, the Commission has a request for correction. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0172par0166	Mr. President, the expression of the museum, the palace and the cassocks (a) at the head of the matter (b) and (c) at the top of the dams, is written without notice (c) at the beginning of the berm, and (c) in my hand (c) to commend the treatment of the museum, the mansion, and the muscles.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0169par0167	As part of the commission's amendment, I submit to your votes the Article 17: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 18 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 19 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the 20th article that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 20 of "The Executive Service Act of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey" in the following way. Yusuf Başer Nurettin Canikli Hilmi Bilgin Ahmet Aydın Mahir Ünal Ahmet Toptaş Zeynep Karahan Good Nureddin Nebati Pelin Günış Bakır Abulkerim Gök İdris Şahin Ayşe Nur Bahçapılı "The duties of the 20- (1) Chairman of Law Services are as follows: A) doing the duties given to law units according to the provisions of the Law Act on the Running of Legal Services in Public Administrations and Special Budgeted Administrations within the General Budget Area of 659. B) Giving legal opinions to commissions in a request. C) Do similar tasks to be given." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0173par0186	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0169par0187	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0174par0188	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0175par0189	Motive.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0169par0190	I'm reading the reason: The duties of law units are counted in Article 4 of the Court of Law on the Run of Legal Services in Public Administrations and Special Budgeted Administrations under the General Budget of 659, and are trying to comply with this arrangement of matter. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 20th article to your votes within the accepted framework of the motion: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 21 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 22 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 23 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 24 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 25 that I'm going to read and process. It's the 25th draft of the current 83rd row bill. 5 to the point. As a joke, we would like to add the following text. 5) Doing other tasks under the mandate given Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Oktay Soş Süleyman Çelebi Free Special Ahmet Toptaş Salih Fırat Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0176par0208	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0169par0209	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0177par0210	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0169par0211	İstanbul MP Oktay Soşi.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0178par0213	Mr. President, my esteemed friends, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which, needless to say, is a law-making institution, but if it leaves its duty to make law, then we, here, as members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, need to be seriously engaged in the matter. Second, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we all know, is the institution that controls it. Our Constitution gave us the control function at the highest level. We all know that as Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk has just stated, our control function has been taken away from us. Look, I have a question proposal presented to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The answer to my question motion is this: they report that they did not implement my motion in July until October 1st. What's the reason? The council is on vacation. Right after the June 12th elections, the Turkish Grand National Assembly began its final mission as of June 28th, didn't it? Isn't the Presidential Court on duty? Aren't the ministries on duty? Isn't there a government continuity principle? Despite such open principles, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has not implemented your motion until October 1st -- based on the non-related substances of the Interior Charter, or non-related clauses -- says the Turkish Parliament. Our audit mission is not merely a parliamentary bureaucracy, as Mr. Ozturk puts it, but an obstacle to the Supreme Court; one. Secondly, my dear friends, right now eight of our friends are inside, under arrest. These are our two friends, not my two friends, not one friend of the National Movement Party, not five friends of the Peace and Democracy Party, these are friends of Mr. Cemil Cicek, president of the Grand National Assembly of the Republic of Turkey. We have a Parliamentary Speaker who has done nothing the Turkish Grand National Assembly needs to do to get his friends out of jail. My dear friends, Parliament protects the reputation of parliament. One of the best examples of praising parliament and the first institution in the history of parliament, the British Parliament, has been able to prevent MPs from sending them to prison, starting with the wrongful appeal of a member of parliament. My dear friends, the Presidential Court -- which has just been announced -- has been elected -- imposed on the rights of lawmakers who are currently in prison -- has imposed on them their grants, their travel; they don't give them to their families, they don't give them to them. Isn't the basic principle of the law that people are considered innocent until they're convicted? Is it a savings that would suit the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to take away the rights of a man who is considered innocent? I'm not just saying that. You give these friends a room, you assign these friends the help assigned to them by the law, but from the time they're in prison, you withhold them from giving them the rights, the rights, the grants, from that moment on. Is this appropriate to the Turkish Parliament's function of lawmaking, leading the law? I've come to share this with you. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0179par0222	Thank you, Mr. Sour. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in the 26th article, which I will have read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 83 S. We propose and propose that the second joke of Article 26 of the Numbered Law Proposal be changed as follows, and the following joke added to the article. Nurettin Canikli Mustafa Kalaycı Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mehmet Doğan Kubat Hasip Kaplan Türkan Dağoğlu ▪ The procedures and foundations for the allocation and hardware of lawmakers are determined by the Presidential Court of Political Party groups, members of the Presidential Court and commissioners. ▪ With the mandatory and exceptional work that must be completed during a certain period of time, and also with the decision made by the Presidential Court, the staff and staff of the Executive Agency, which operates in positions that are eligible for the Presidential Court, the amount, the amount, the amount, the amount, the amount, and the amount, and the amount of extra work can be paid by the presidential Court, at the expense of more than five times the working hours set in the central management budget law, not to exceed 50 hours per year and six months in a year. This payment is not subject to any tax, except for the stamp tax. In accordance with this clause, the extra working fee will not be paid to personnel who have been paid under any name in exchange for their overwork under other legislation. The 26th Amendment proposal for the Executive Service Act is held at the 83rd ranking. item to add to the following jokes [[Articles 3 and 4]] Supply and offer. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoglu Prof. Dr. ♪ Good morning to you ♪ (3) The Supreme Election Board, which has not been prevented from entering the election, has the authority to participate in the elections and make legal arrangements for the removal of arrested MPs. (4) The Presidential Court is authorized to make decisions on the rights and fees of arrested lawmakers. (5) The need for personnel of political party groups and lawmakers' workplaces and political party groups is determined by the Presidential Court. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0180par0248	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0179par0249	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0181par0250	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0179par0251	İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0182par0253	Dear President, dear friends, good evening to you all. Under the constitution, the title of MP will be adopted along with the document issued by the municipal election boards. However, in the parliamentary election held on 12 June 2010, there have been eight MPs who have the status of MP in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but have so far not been paid for their rights in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution. There's no legal basis for not paying the salary, dear friends. The answer to the petition we submitted to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on this matter is this: because they do not swear why the salaries were not paid. Dear friends, the Constitution, which regulates the text of the oath, is a requirement for participation in a parliamentary activity there. However, if he has no excuse to participate in parliamentary activities, these challenges will come to the agenda. However, there are no provisions in the existing positive arrangements as to whether MPs are paid or deposited in a bank. What does this look like, dear friends? As opposed to political power, lawmakers' salaries have not been paid so far in order to clamp their salaries for economic reasons, just as municipalities against political power are printed at six in the morning. Indeed, I would like to call on the president of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in that sense. A second issue: Mr. President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our deputy said: "Sir, the secretary has been assigned. The secretaries that have been collected have been taken back completely. Besides, cell phones that have been assigned by Congress so far are not even open to talking. However, in the same way as the Parliamentary law we discussed...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0183par0258	Parliament phone calls, Congress.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0182par0259	The Speaker, who answered the phone, of course, is aware of that. In the same way, 5,521 people are working in my response to the petition on the number of employees working for the Turkish Grand National Assembly. When we ask, "How many disabled are there among 5,521 people? " The answer is said to be valuable friends, 51 disabled people are working. How many people have to work under the law? 3%. How much does that cost? That's 165 people. However, the Deputy Speaker of Parliament said: "Sir, the current legal arrangement is being disabled." I, of course, submit my own signatures as well as my own. I beg you, so I urge them to answer these questions in accordance with the law. So I ask that they do not inform lawmakers with statements that do not reflect the truth. So I've got a written document here, and they've made the exact opposite of this written document. In other words, there are exceptional provisions in Article 59 of State Officers Act 657. Members of Turkey's Grand National Assembly working on exceptional provisions have been taken into account. This is a violation of the principle of equality. Exclusive coverage happens here in technical, specialized issues, but unfortunately, that's against the law in that sense, too. The tender work related to the regulation has been taken out of Law 4734, a service related to the tender here, regarding the practice of law enforcement. Mr. Vice President also said that the restoration work is technical. We can't find it everywhere. It's been edited into the same substance. It's really hard to make sense of that, too. So I guess what we're trying to do here is, how do we get money out of the budget of the House, how do we get the House budget out of here? The account is based on this. I'd like to request that this arrangement be made. Up until this stage of matter, dear friends, a very strange sentence in terms of matter technique, is to perform tasks that are similar to that of all places... (It is the same sentence in 18 places, up to this point, 18 sentences. The same sentence, the last sentence, 18 times to the 26th article... is against the technique of lawmaking. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0184par0266	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 83 S. We propose and propose that the second joke of Article 26 of the Numbered Law Proposal be changed as follows, and the following joke added to the article. Nurettin Canikli and his friends. ▪ The procedures and foundations for the allocation and hardware of lawmakers are determined by the Presidential Court of Political Party groups, members of the Presidential Court and commissioners. ▪ With the mandatory and exceptional work that must be completed during a certain period of time, and also with the decision made by the Presidential Court, the staff and staff of the Executive Agency, which operates in positions that are eligible for the Presidential Court, the amount, the amount, the amount, the amount, the amount, and the amount, and the amount of extra work can be paid by the presidential Court, at the expense of more than five times the working hours set in the central management budget law, not to exceed 50 hours per year and six months in a year. This payment is not subject to any tax, except for the stamp tax. In accordance with this clause, the extra working fees will not be paid to personnel who have been paid under any name in exchange for their overwork under other legislation. Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0185par0275	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0184par0276	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0186par0277	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0187par0278	Motive...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0184par0279	I'm reading the reason: Reason: The change in the second joke aims to determine the personnel needs of members of the Presidential Court and the commissioners as well as the presidential Court. It is intended to use the Presidential Court for presidential employees, since the third joke is envisioned to include the power used by the Council of Ministers to set a number of labour fees used for other public staff, as the relevant legislation requires the decision of the Council of Ministers. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I submit to your votes the article 26, in the accepted framework of the motion: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 27, I'll have it read and processed: 27 of the current bill. We request that the clause be removed from the text of the law. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu İhsan Özkes Ahmet Toptaş Oktay Sour Aytun Çiray Gürkut Acar Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0188par0292	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0184par0293	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0189par0294	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0184par0295	Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0190par0297	Mr. President, I'm very sorry, very sorry, it's not about this clause, I'll be right back. Mr. Subcommittee here, Mr. Subcommittee President, I'm asking you, haven't we agreed with you on the 15th article and on the lower commission and on the top commission? After I've agreed with you, I'd like to bring you here and have you broadcast a motion from the ruling party, the group's... it's a sad event, really. My Subcommittee and Commissioner -- not here -- we've made a consensus, either in the subcommittee, in the upper commission, in this agreement, that we've been tasked with publishing the broadcasts of Parliament TV and Parliament Speakership, Parliamentary Assembly and groups' work, but you're making a motion here, your group, you're subtracting the groups.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0191par0298	He never showed up.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0190par0299	Groups are the foundation of this Parliament, Mr. Bilgiç. If you're outstripping groups, then don't ever have a group in this Parliament, run it like that.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0191par0300	It's never been discussed.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0190par0301	I mean, I'm sorry for him. You've really gone against the rules of understanding. If you couldn't tell anyone at your party, shame on you! My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0192par0304	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three proposals in Article 28; I'll have them read it in order to process the most contrary. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 83 S. Under Article 28 of the Numbered Law Proposal, we propose and propose that the list (1) be replaced in the following way with its sixth, eighth and seventy-five lines. Ahmet Aydın Hasip Kaplan of Nurettin Canikli Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Türkan Dağoğlu SINIF UNVAN DERECE TOPLAM Vice President of GİH 46 46 SINIF UNVAN DERECE TOPLAM Assistant Chief of Staff 133 SINIF UNVAN DERECE TOPLAM G.I.H. Officer 917 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition to Article 28 of Law Proposal 83, we propose that the line concerning "stenographer's assistant" shall be redesigned and redesigned as follows. Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Şandir Nevzat Don't Fear Emin Çınar Erkan Akçay (GIH Stenographer Helper 8 60 60 60 Τ) Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the following joke to Article 28 of Turkey's Executive Service Law Act 2/92, which is based on the Constitutional Assembly of Turkey. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Süleyman Çelebi Kazim Kurt Musa Pine Ihsan Özkes Aydın Ayadın Bornt Kuşoğlu Osman Aydın Haluk Ahmet Silver According to Article 30 of this Law, the difference between the net contract fees paid to MPs, assistant advisers, and other contractal staff employed alongside the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly Administration and the fees paid to the chief and staff of six civil servants is paid as compensation for the officers along with their monthly pensions. These compensations are paid by the officer advisor, who graduated from higher education or higher education institutions abroad, which are at least two years old, or equal to them by the Higher Education Board; the officer who graduated from the upper secondary school degree; and the officers who graduated from primary education and six teaching institutions are paid by the MPs in accordance with the contract fees of other contractors who have been employed alongside the MPs, regardless of constraints in other laws and laws. This compensation will not be subject to any tax or deduction except for the stamp tax, and the insurance premium will not be taken into account." Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0193par0348	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0192par0349	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0194par0350	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0192par0351	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0195par0352	Mr. Adnan Keskin will speak.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0192par0353	Congressman Adnan Keskin. [[Applause from CHP and BDP rows]] Mr. Keskin, please.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0196par0356	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. I think that after the proposal was passed, it was likely that those who wrote the history of Turkish Parliament would refer to it as a freakish proposal of law; it needed preparation, commissions, and the meeting in Parliament was a very remarkable network of relations. First, this proposal was sent by our friends, Mr. President and two vice presidents, to political parties in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and to our friends in the Presidential Court. We, the friends who served on the Presidential Court, submitted our own thoughts to Mr. President in a report about the shortcomings we've seen, but whatever happened, our president, who needed our opinion in preparation, sent this proposal to Parliament without the signature of any of our fellow officers from the opposition at the Presidential Court, who were part of his party. The understanding of our age of democracy is not an understanding that does what the majority wants, but rather, the pluralistic sense of democracy prevails. Opposition parties are dominated by an application in the occupational institutions of NGOs, which dominates the understanding of democracy in our time, but unfortunately, we don't see that understanding in presentations and commissions and talks in the General Assembly. Mr. President has just taken a half-hour break to negotiate. We waited exactly an hour, and then an hour later the mountain gave birth to a mouse, no deals, no compromises, and, unfortunately, we started working again. When you look at the reasons for the drafting of this law proposal, we see that no reason has been removed, on the contrary, new negatives are added to the negatives that led to the drafting of the proposal of the law, new injustices are added. Nearly 3,000 employees from the Turkish Grand National Assembly are working on different dates. A large portion of them were deployed during the time of the Justice and Development Party's majority on the Presidential Court. Now, because of the drafting of the proposal of the law, the number of personnel has increased. Don't you have to ask, why do you have so many staff? Why did you put these people on a mission without a test? Now, in what right, in what law, in what sense, in which sense of justice you are an extra, we are sending you to another institution. How will the people who earn their savings here, who have experience here, reach a compromise at the institution they've just gone to? How can he work in a field where he has no knowledge? This arrangement, unfortunately, is in line with the times when a little antidemocratic understanding prevails. In the first place, when the proposal was sent to the members of the committee, both to the members of the parliamentary group and to the members of the commission, the name of the law was the Turkish National Assembly's General Secretariat Act. Such an arrangement is not found in our public law. This arrangement is an arrangement that brought in the September 12th movement to our public administration, with the General Secretariat agency in the presidency alone. On our criticism -- thank you, Mr. President and our co-workers at least -- we have come up with a criticism by saying that this reflects an antidemocratic understanding, that the officers are an arrangement to build hegemonia on the chosen. This review has been adopted and the name of the bill has been changed. His name has been changed, but the content, unfortunately, is dominated by an arrangement that covers understanding of closed periods. The understanding that more officers should be sent to other institutions is an antidemocratic arrangement, a counterintuitive approach to rights, law, justice. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In the days to come, we will all experience the negativity that this brings. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0197par0366	Thank you, Mr. Keskin. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition to Article 28 of Law Proposal 83, we propose that the line concerning "stenographer's assistant" shall be redesigned and redesigned as follows. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends (GIH Stenographer Helper 8 60 60 60 Τ) Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0198par0374	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0197par0375	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0199par0376	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0197par0377	Isparta MP Nevzat Korkmaz...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0200par0379	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on our motion. I salute your high council. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to draw your attention to a professional group who are almost enough of us to recognize them all. I'd like to talk about a part of the General Assembly and the legislature, an integral part of the legislature and its stances, which we breathe into the same working environment, as well, when we quietly come to the General Assembly and perform its duties so as not to disturb us, and then come quietly out of the General Assembly, quietly again, offering the most intense moments of parliamentary stress. If you'll allow me to have this conversation, I'll do it on behalf of you, all of us, without defying any political polarity. The selfless work of our stenographer friends doesn't escape any of us. They've been making a date since the 1876 Coven Mebusan. The word flies and the writing stays. They're creating the council's memory. These are our friends, not only in the General Assembly and commissions, but in all the meetings held by the Parliamentary Chair, the Supreme Court of the Constitution is also serving in the martial law courts in extraordinary situations. It's only 37. And when the General Assembly closes, they don't finish. I'm shutting down the deputy president's merger. The reports are being submitted to the Internet within an hour and a half. It's really hard to understand how much of the 24-hour day they take to themselves, to their families, when they're rested, to regain their ability to work. I think the answer will be similar: it's hard to be a stenographer. Maybe one of the hardest jobs in the world. It's hard to win your exam, to be a stenographer -- as I said -- it's much harder. Graduating from numbered universities, passing the KPSS and Parliament's selection exam is not enough, they are subject to the Qaeda exam first and then three-level speed exams during their one-year stenographer training later. Those who can read and write 200 syllables per minute begin as stenographer assistants. So they can't be stenographers again. For this, there is also a requirement that after two years of service training, you will succeed in the final test. With the expertise, stenography is a career in Congress. The legislator kept that balance for a long time. It's not wrong, but you have to return a right. The stenographers, if you will call them the hardest work, are still them. But, dear friends, in addition to so much hard work, they expect us to claim their rights because of their performances in front of the General Assembly, even though there will be an arrangement against them. His demands are clear, clear, understandable. I told you, they're 37, extremely inadequate. This number has to be at least 100 to 120 so they don't miss their mission. Their malfunction is, in fact, the failure of the legislative process. You all know you can't get the commissions right away. Which place are they gonna be in? It takes at least two days to get these reports. There's no such thing in any of the world's parliaments, dear friends. Its solution is simple, to increase their number. There's a stenography course at the moment, and 30 is a trainee, but there's only 10 staff. We've been briefed on the performances of 30 trainees, and some really successful friends are coming. We've learned that there's a consensus between the groups, that the officers' staffs will be replaced by the Presidential Court's decision, and that all the assistants will be appointed, and we're glad of that. But it's still not going to be enough, friends, and the next year, there's still a course like this that needs to be opened, and this course needs at least 30 more stenographers. Another important problem is that the equal-payment decision and the contract in exchange for the staff are cancelled, and the stenographers are included in the ruling of this law. Because of their intense and tedious working time, the schoolrooms say there's no point in suffering, that we can become experts in any institution we want to work with. I'd like to remind the presidency and the General Assembly of this matter. If it's not unsupervised in law enforcement -- which I've personally seen in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy -- it's as obvious as the day the Parliament's work will fail. The solution to these problems is not really important for meeting their expectations, but for the continuation of legislature. We're all actually going to give our friends a intimacy test. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In this regard, I invite all the council groups to support their problems, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0201par0392	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 83 S. On Article 28 of the Numbered Law Proposal, we propose and propose that the list be replaced with the sixth, eighth and seventy-five lines and the last line as follows. SINIF UNVAN DERECE TOPLAM Vice President of GİH 46 46 SINIF UNVAN DERECE TOPLAM Assistant Chief of Staff 133 SINIF UNVAN DERECE TOPLAM G.I.H. Officer 917 Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0202par0415	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0201par0416	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0203par0417	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0204par0418	Motive...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0201par0419	I'm reading the reason: The position of vice president and vice chief of chief of staff is intended to provide for the needs and to determine enough for the administration of the Agency to ensure that no additional staff is scheduled for these tasks. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are four proposals in Article 29; I have them read according to the order of arrival. I'll process the most irregular one. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 83 S. Following the declaration of the 29th article of the Numbered Law Proposal, "the ones who have done or have done so" will be added to the fifth joke, and removed the last sentence from the joke text, and removed the joke text of the joke from the sixth joke (a) and (c) from the subtext (a) and (b) the introduction of the staff under which the other bengents will be identified, except for the "Secreecutor of Library and Archives Services" and the last article in the seventh, which is included in the subsection of "The Secretary and Archive Services Office," which includes the "Secretary of the joke text," which is included in the "Secresstary and Archives." Nurettin Canikli Mustafa Kalaycı Ahmet Aydın Abdulkerim Gök Ekrem Çelem Çelebi Salih Husband The secretary general. Other than the chairman of MP Services, they are presidents of the Deputy Secretary-General in Charge of Executive, Mali and Technical Services." "However, the appointment of these personnel will be made to one of the public institutions and institutions in Ankara or to one of the public institutions and institutions in the province they demand if they demand it." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 83-Selected Turkish National Assembly Chairman of the Executive Agency's Law Proposal 29th Article 9 of the Article I'd like to include the "to be excluded from personnel entering the TBM," which will be added after the statement "in case any member of the Executive Service staff needs to be assigned to other public institutions and organisations." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The proposal for the Law on the Executive Service of the 83-Distribution Supreme Assembly of Turkey, which is currently in session, is 29th. Article 9. Following the statement "If the presidential court decides on this issue" in its joke, it will be added to the statement "except for those entering public staff with a test," and 10. We offer and propose that his joke be taken out of the material text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Prof. Dr. Aydın Ayadın Bkent Kuşoğlu Moses Pine Solomon Çelebi Dr. Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 29 of Law Proposal 83 be changed in the following way, the second and fourth jokes of Article 29 in the following way, the release of the "clearly or openly" and the 9th joke from the text of the article. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Şandir Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Mustafa Kalaycı In order to be appointed as secretary general and assistant secretary general, you must graduate from universities' four-year education faculty or from higher education institutions abroad, which have been accepted by the Board of Higher Education, and have served in public service for at least 12 years. 3/4 of the time is considered in the account of the time above, not for more than six years of private or freelance work. (4) In order to be appointed as deputy secretary general for national palaces and chairman of these Deputy Secretary Generals, it is imperative that you serve at least 12 years of public service, at least ten years of public service, to be appointed vice president. Three-fourths of the time is considered in the account of the time above, not for more than six years of private or freelance work." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0205par0454	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0201par0455	Is the presidency in? Mr. Yakut, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0206par0456	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0201par0457	Mr. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, Osmaniye MP.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0207par0459	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the owners of the motion, which includes amendments to Article 29 of the Turkish National Assembly's Law, which is held at 83 seats. I salute your high council. Honourable MPs, Article 29 of Article 5 of the 5th chapter, titled "Personal provisions" of the draft bill, is a clause of 11 jokes. For a fundamental law, it is considered very long and detailed, and it has the properties that can lead to significant difficulties if it is legalized as it is. With our motion for the presidency, we would like to change the 2nd and 4th jokes of the current state of matter. As it is, the Turkish Grand National Assembly Secretary General, Deputy Secretary General and Assistant Secretary General of the National Palaces keep the twelve and ten years in public or in private sectors, as well as the twelve and ten years sought for postings with the presidents of the presidential and vice-presidents. If the matter becomes legal, individuals who have not even a day of public service will be able to be appointed without any experience or savings to the most important tasks in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. You'll appreciate that the Secretary-General of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the vice-presidents and vice-presidents, are important in carrying out the duties of this Assembly. Of course, it is necessary and important for those assigned to these positions to have certain knowledge and experience. On the other hand, the amount of time spent in the private sector has not been explained in the current form of matter. In this way, it is possible for the person who works at the most qualified in the private sector to be assigned to tasks mentioned, as well as the person who works at a grocery store. In the Turkish state, civil service is based on career and merit principles as a basic principle. In this framework, both the hierarchy of a civil servant is given the opportunity to advance, as well as the conditions for the appointment of a civil servant. From these points, we aim to reach a middle course, both in accordance with the principles of careers and merit, as well as including three-quarters of the time spent in the private sector. On the other hand, the nineth joke of the current state of matter will be the source of illegal, meaningless, arbitrary transactions. The 9th joke is, in its current form, the most crude recipe for exile. Any personnel on the executive staff can be sent to other public institutions and organisations in the event of a decision by the Presidential Court. That's just exile. If the matter becomes legal, all officers subject to the administrative agency will be subject to a majority party in parliament and will enter a reference-seeking race from the ruling party. You may not like the view that you enjoy today that will be revealed tomorrow. It is essential that the members of the House work in a neutral environment, without need of anyone. The nineth joke of this article eliminates parliamentary employees' mandate guarantees. I don't think you should offend those people who give the parliament years and years of hard work, who have knowledge and experience, and who guide lawmakers when necessary. I would like to present to you the appreciation of your grand delegation that the 9th joke has been removed from the text of matter. I ask for the acceptance of our motion, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0208par0468	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The proposal for the Law on the Executive Service of the 83-Distribution Supreme Assembly of Turkey, which is currently in session, is 29th. Article 9. Following the statement "If the presidential court decides on this issue" in its joke, it will be added to the statement "except for those entering public staff with a test," and 10. We offer and propose that his joke be taken out of the material text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0209par0475	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0208par0476	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0210par0477	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0211par0478	Mr. Musa Pine will speak.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0208par0479	Mr. Musa Çam, MP of İzmir. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0212par0481	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you all and bid you good evening. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You've been tired since yesterday, and we're working late today, until morning. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is discussing the law of the most important institution in a 75 million-dollar country. Of course, when we made these talks, both in the lower commission and in the Plan and Budget Commission, it was to bring you a better bill, together with the friends we worked with. However, we face a situation like this: When I say 50 percent, whatever I call the whistle is what I say. But that's not democracy, people. Democracy is also the name of a regime where the law of the minority is protected and protected, but unfortunately the key part of our proposals in the Plan and Budget Commission and the subcommittee, with 25 votes in your majority of the Plan and Budget Commission, all our good intentions and efforts have been reversed there, and our proposals and opinions have not been accepted. This substance is a completely disintegrated substance. Our fellow advisers and other servants serving in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are friends of ours who will be meeting in the pool, which will be held against their will and against their will, and then will be sent to different places in Turkey. Place your hand on your conscience, and do not send these friends who serve us here night and day, who work with us in good times and in bad times, between you and your lips, into exile. Everybody's got family, kids, people they have to take care of. Dismantling their structure... We ask you not to allow them to be sent to different cities, different places. We're dads, dads, moms. Put yourself in their shoes at some point. What you don't want done to you, what you don't want done to you, you shouldn't do to others, we shouldn't. So we ask and ask that you do not play with the future of our fellow workers and their futures and the futures of their children and that you do not put them through this difficult process. Damn 4/C, damn subcontractor app, I bid you all good evening.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0213par0487	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 83-Selected Turkish National Assembly Chairman of the Executive Agency's Law Proposal 29th Article 9 of the Article I'd like to include the "to be excluded from personnel entering the TBM," which will be added after the statement "in case any member of the Executive Service staff needs to be assigned to other public institutions and organisations." Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0214par0495	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0213par0496	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0215par0497	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0213par0498	Is Mr. Gunpowder here? No. Read the reason. The Agency's Law Proposal stipulates that the institution's surplus personnel be appointed outside the institution by the Presidential Court's decision. According to the general principles of Norm's staff, the staff must not be assessed as extracurricular because of the need for public service, and such personnel must be removed from the institution. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 83 S. In addition to the fifth joke of Article 29 of the Numbered Law Proposal, following the declaration of "Those who have done or have done so" and the release of the last sentence from the joke text (a) to the sixth joke (a) and (c) be added to the subtext (a) and (b) staff under the current (b) memorandum "and the last article of the Library and Archive Services Committee" and in the seventh, which is included in the "Secretary Secretary and the joke text of the joke," which is included in the subsidiary text of the joke, and we propose to replace the following Article 32 under the joke, and to change the following article under which staff, and to change the following article 32 subsections of the following. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends "a) Secretary General." "C) Presidents of the Executive, Financial and Technical Services Deputy Secretary-General, except for the President of Parliamentary Services." "However, the appointment of these personnel will be made to one of the public institutions and institutions in Ankara or to one of the public institutions and institutions in the province they demand if they demand it." Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0216par0511	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0213par0512	President?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0217par0513	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0218par0514	Motive.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0213par0515	I'm reading the reason: It is possible to provide them with the opportunity to be president or vice president of the Constitutional Services of Library and Archive Services to benefit from the experience of former stenographers, to allow the presidents of the Library and Archive Services to be appointed as library and archive services together, to be removed from the limits relating to being appointed as vice president and vice presidents of this place, to be opened or appointed as senior secretary-in-chief, except for the President of Parliamentary Services, to be able to be appointed from the outside, and to ensure that the members of the presidential staff, who are responsible for financial and technical services, can be appointed in accordance with this matter, to be appointed to other institutions, and to be subjected to their own responsibilities, and to be subjected to their own responsibilities. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0219par0519	Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0213par0520	I said the motion is accepted.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0219par0521	See those who don't, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0213par0522	I asked about those who didn't. I'm not as tired as you are, you sat there until 4:00 a.m.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0220par0524	Sir, we're standing up again!
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0213par0525	I have no objection. So I declare you sat at 4:00, 4:30 a.m. I mean, I'm sorry you're working.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0221par0526	Five and a half! Five and a half!
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0213par0527	Five and a half. Yeah, until 5:30. I mean, you're more tired.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0222par0528	Only our energy minister, who ran out of energy, was asleep!
tbmm-2011-11-30sit04spe0213par0529	Yes, in accordance with the motion accepted, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0213par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 26th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations on the articles of Law Proposal 83. The commission is here. The Presidential Court representative is here. There are three proposals on Article 30: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "In the first sentence of Article 3 of Article 30 of the Law on Executive Service of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which is being held, "the public defender's assistant" in the second sentence... It's the assistant counselor's "and..." The assistant advisor is to be replaced as the "national and national assistant" and the "reputee assistant" in order to the third degree, "the employee employed under this clause will be taken advantage of by severance." We propose that the sentence be added and the fifth joke be changed in the following way. Süleyman Çelebi Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kazım Kurt Prof. Dr. Aydın Ayya morning Musa Pine Ali Riza Özturk Osman Aydın İhsan Özkes Haluk Ahmet Silver ==References=======External links========References======External links======External links=====References=====External links=====External links=======References======External links=== Taking into account the titles of the duties of those employed by staff and members of the TBM Executive Service, 35% of the indicator numbers predicted in the first, second and third joke will also be multiplied by the employee's monthly coefficient, and no cuts will be made except for the Mark Tax. He can also be assigned to the TBMM on a monthly leave of absence from the personnel institutions within this scope. They are paid in accordance with the first, second and third joke provisions, and their relationship with the social security institution is maintained by considering the status of their institutions. The request of the presidency of TBM is primarily concluded by the relevant institutions and organisations. The amount of time these personnel work at the TBMM counts as mandatory services, and they are not charged with any mandatory service in exchange for the time they work at the TBMM. These personnel are not paid in addition to financial and social rights." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 83 of Law Proposal on Article 83 shall be added to Article 30 of Article 30 with financial rights and the interim and the change of third and fifth jokes in the following manner, and add to the article the following 9, 10 and 11th jokes. Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Şandir Oktay Vural Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal ) Every consortium commission and a consultant and two staff members can be employed under contract for the chairman of the international commission and an international commission, without a search for staff conditions to assist the heads of the international commission and lawmakers and the provisions of other laws on the employment of contracted personnel. At least two years of higher education or equality of the counselor is required to graduate from higher education institutions abroad, an assistant advisor from high school and other staff from at least elementary school. Of those employed, the monthly contract fee will be paid to graduates from universities' universities' universities' universities' schools or higher education institutions abroad (83,500), at least two years of higher education (73,000) and to other staff (63,000) when the number of indicators is multiplied by the officer's monthly coefficient. In any case, the compensation for severance is used according to general procedure. (5) People who work in public institutions and public corporate institutions, including the Executive Agency, and public corporate institutions, can be assigned to the TBMM (as part of this clause) with monthly, allowance, raises and compensations, and other financial and social rights and benefits being paid by institutions. Of these employees, those who have graduated from schools or universities that provide at least four years of education, or graduates from higher education institutions abroad (24,500), which are accepted by the Higher Education Board (18,500), will be paid as long as compensation is paid except by the official monthly coefficient of the indicator number (18,500), and no tax and deductions will be subject to except for the stamping tax and tax and tax. It can also be assigned to the TBMM on a monthly leave of absence from staff institutions under the provisions of this clause. They will not be paid in compensation and will be paid in accordance with their first, second and third joke verdicts, and their relations with the social security institution will continue by considering the status of their institutions. The request of the presidency of TBM is primarily concluded by the relevant institutions and organisations. The amount of time these personnel work in the TBMM is considered mandatory services, and they are not charged with any mandatory services in exchange for the time they work in the TBMM. (9) From the personnel assigned under Article 40 of this Law to the Head of Protection (24,500) to the vice president (24,500) the number of indicators will be multiplied by the officer's monthly coefficient (18,500) to others, as long as compensation is paid by the officer's monthly coefficient, and this compensation will not be subject to any tax or deductions except the stamp tax and tax and payment on the insurance bonus. (10) For employees of the Executive Service staff, the highest state official pension, including the additional indicator specified by Law 657; A) from 15 to 11 degrees to 40 per cent per month, B) From 10 to 7 degrees per month to 45 per cent per cent per month, C) From 6 to 4th degrees to the monthly areas, 50 percent, ) 55% of the 3 to 1st degrees per month, In accordance with the procedures and foundations set by the TBM presidency not to pass, the monthly fee is paid in advance, with no tax and no cuts except the stamp tax. (11) How many additional indicators, additional severance, additional payment and special service compensation will be paid to those of the executive agency staff, as well as the quality of the mission, the position of authority and responsibility, and the position of service class, the position of office and titles are determined by the Presidential Court. However, this additional indicator does not exceed the maximum amount of additional payment and special service compensation paid by Law 657, the highest amount of additional compensation, additional compensation and compensation. This additional payment and compensation shall be paid by monthly provisions, and this compensation shall not be subject to any tax or cuts, except for the stamping tax." Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 83 S. We propose and propose that Article 30 of the Numbered Law Proposal be changed in the following way. Nurettin Canikli Ahmet Aydın A. Çazatai Sword Mehmet Erdoğan Yunus Kılıç Mahir Ünal "MADE 30- (I) 5 TBM Chairman's advisers can be employed under contract, without the requirement of staff to consult the president of the TBMM in areas related to the activities of the TBMM, and without the provisions of other laws on the running of contracted personnel. For those who are employed within this scope, the monthly contract fee is paid as long as the official coefficient of the (60,000) and the (100,000) indicator number is multiplied by the employee's monthly coefficient, and no payment is paid under any name other than the contract fee. It is determined by the presidency of the TBMM, considering that the contract and its basics will be run in full or partial time. (2) A contractual staff can be employed on matters that require special information and expertise regarding law enforcement, without a requirement for staff in the political party group heads and without the provisions of other laws on the running of contracted personnel. Each political party group can employ ten groups of advisers, twenty-five branch office officials, and ten per cent additional branch office staff for each political party group with a group in the TBMM. The group counselor (85,000) will receive a monthly contract fee as long as it is paid by the officer's monthly coefficient on the number of indicators (73.000). Employees employed in this area are not paid under any name under financial and social rights other than the contract fee. (3) An adviser, a second adviser and an additional staffer can be employed under contract for each MP, without a search for a staff requirement to assist lawmakers and without the other laws in accordance with their provisions on the employment of contracted personnel. At least two years of higher education or equality of the counselor is required by the higher education institutes abroad, the second advisor will graduate from high school and other staff at least from elementary school, and the second advisor will have to be staffed by public institutions and public institutions and private institutions. Of those employed within the scope, the monthly contract fee is paid as long as it is paid for counseling (83,500), the second adviser (73,000), and the other staff (63,000) at the cost of multiplying the number of indicators by the officer's monthly coefficient. All employees employed in this area are not paid under any name under financial and social rights, except under contract fees. (4) Under the second, third and fifth joke, the contract and basis of all personnel to be employed under contract is determined by the Presidential Court. (5) People who work with public institutions and public corporate institutions can be assigned to the TBMM for monthly, allowances, all kinds of raises and compensations, and other financial and social rights and benefits, provided they are paid by institutions and by their own institutions, as part of the third and third jokes of this clause. These personnel are not also paid under financial and social rights. In accordance with these provisions, the staff may also be assigned to the TBMM on a monthly leave of absence from its institutions during the service process that is required, without constraints in the relevant legislation. They are paid in accordance with the first, second and third sentences, and their relations with the social security institution are maintained by consideration of the status of their institutions. The request of the presidency of TBM on this issue is concluded by the relevant institutions and organisations. The amount of time these personnel work in the TBMM is considered mandatory service, and they are not charged with any mandatory service in exchange for the time they work in the TBMM. Those who are on monthly leave are evaluated in the earned rights monthly and phases of the presidency of the TBMM, and those times are considered for promotions and pensions. Their promotions are done in time without further processing. Employees of the Executive Service or positions can also be employed in the task titles mentioned in these jokes, provided the numbers mentioned in the second and third jokes are not exceeded. The rights of those held under Article 14 under Article 375 of the provisions of the Constitution are sealed in Article 14 of the term. (6) The contract or postings of TBM President advisers employed under this clause have ended with the first election of the group's advisers and office officials, when the contract or commissions of political party groups have lost the right to form a group during the legislative period, without any further obligation, during which the consultant, second adviser and additional staff have lost the title of legislature of MP during the period of the relevant law, or after the first election of MP general elections. Public institutions and institutions and employees of public corporate institutions return to their positions or positions at their own institutions, no need to function in the circumstances mentioned in this joke. (7) Under this clause, all employees who will be employed under contract, except those on monthly leave, are covered under the first clause (a) of Article 4 of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 31/5/2006. (8) At the request of the head of the TBMM, public institutions and institutions and public corporate institutions can be assigned to the TBMM without subject to other joke provisions of this clause, with monthly, grants, any increase and compensations, and other financial and social rights and benefits being paid by institutions. These personnel are not paid in addition to financial and social rights." Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0223par0049	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0213par0050	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0224par0051	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0213par0052	What do we do?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0225par0053	Motive...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0213par0054	I'm reading the reason: Needless to say: It is necessary for lawmakers to be appointed staff for all members of law enforcement, regardless of their other duties, to be appointed as MPs, therefore to remove such regulations from the text, because they do not need a separate arrangement for commissioners, to provide a regular quality for a large group of persons with public experience, and to be employed as second advisers for the use of resources, and to employ the employee of the person who will be employed as a second consultant, and to be able to employ the members of the party, as well as to be able to employ the members of the party, as well as to be able to employ the services of the body for more supervised tasks that do not qualifying. In order to address problems that might arise in the application, the assistant advisor's job title has been changed as a second adviser. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Since the motion has been adopted and the matter has been completely altered, there is no way to process the other motions. I'm removing these two motions from the process. I submit to your votes the matter of Article 30, in which the motion is adopted: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The votes of the substances in the first section are complete. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second chapter includes Article 41's first, two, three, four, five, six jokes, A, b, c, c, j, d, and articles 31, 13 and 14th, including jokes of the seventh joke. Smyrna MP Musa Çam has asked to speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group over the second chapter. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0226par0064	Mr. President, honored members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you once again, and bid you good evening. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party regarding Law number 83 that is being discussed today. This year, we have a very unfortunate process for people who work and produce in this country. The process began in February 2011, continued in June, and you are about to strike the final blow today. We'd like to do our duty here to warn you one more time before we strike. In February 2011, you passed the first of these exile laws with Law 6111 earlier this year, or the AKP government. The important clause is the 166th article of 6111, which is the 166th article of 6111, which is to be given to workers, workers who work in all municipalities in Turkey, and to be sent to different places within the province's borders by the governorship. The exile law, which includes approximately 52,000 workers, is now under way. For example, friends currently working in Ankara's Çankaya Municipality but sent to the governor's order, where are the most remote points of Ankara being sent to Haymana, Poland, or Elmadağ, to exile and even to Sultanbeyli, Istanbul? The hunters are being sent or sent to Chile, or banished to another corner of Istanbul. These are the greatest acts of persecution and exile to workers and workers living in this country. The second banishment law, along with the decrees you issued in June of Parliament, was suddenly left empty, with the members of Turkey's staff and titles in the ministries exposed. Finally, Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which is currently in session in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, is about the Agency's Law, the deportation of workers, workers, and public employees. What we want to say, friends, is that while the employees here have no faults or flaws in the work of our fellow officers, you're liquidating our friends who serve here with this law, and you're making important decisions about their future, their families and their children's lives, and you're doing them a huge injustice. You're in a position and attitude that overstaffed members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly are responsible for the work here. This is a legal document in accordance with the Constitution under Law No. 666. Turkey's Grand National Assembly, however, has come to this because of its administration over the last nine years by AKP's President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. For example, the problem of the Turkish National Assembly advisors was taken after 2002. For example, in 2006, three presidents were the chief advisors, 15 chief advisors, 9 counselors, 27 advisers, this number in the period of Mr. Bkent Arinc, 2 Presidents in 2007, 19 Vice Presidents were the chief chief advisors, 26 chief advisors, 15 counselors, 36 counselors; 3 Presidents were the chief trustees in 2008; 20 Presidents were the chief advisors, 23 chief advisors; 6 Presidents were the chief advisors in 2009; 33 presidents were the chief chief chief of staff in chief of staff; 26 MPs were the chief of staff in the year; and 26 MPs were the Chief of staff in 2011; and Ali Şahin was the last chief of staff of staff in the year. Now, friends, none of the employees here have any faults or faults. They've been fully deployed during the nine-year period of government where you're in power, and now you want to play with their fates. In his speech here, Mr. Bilcic says, "In the past, people were being torpedoed, and now, from now on, they will not be torpedoed, they will be tested by KPSS or tested." When our friends asked the friends who served here, when they asked the Secretary General, the Vice President and the Vice President, who their relatives were assigned to, I personally became angry until they reached my ears. This is the first time we've seen the Turkish Grand National Assembly filled with such supporters, uncles, nephews, uncles, children of aunts, nieces and nephews, and once again we want to emphasize that this is a great injustice and injustice. A member of the AKP, a friend of ours, who is a member of the AKP, what of it? So what if he did? That's what his skills and measurements match, he's taken, there's nothing in it. He said. Now, when my friends said that, I remembered something years ago. Our poet, Can Yücel, who was dead, told a memory while sitting in a street in İzmir. Hasan Ali Yücel, the father of the late Can Yücel, is an important figure who has served as Minister of National Education in this country. Two students will be sent abroad, one will be their son Can Yücel, and one will be the neurosurgeon Professor Gazi Yasargil, who made Turkey an important brand. They're both taking exams, both classmates, college friends and childhood friends. Can Yücel won the exam, not Can Yücel, but Gazi Yasargil, Turkey's greatest neurosurgeon. It's a state discipline, it's a misdemeanor. This has not been a favor to his son, to his son, to his brother, to his uncle, to his son, to his aunt, to his son, but to the rule of law, justice, and equality here. I was just talking to Turhan Tayan, and he told me another memory. When the late Menderes' son, Yüksel Menderes, wanted to finish school and do business, he offered his son the task. No, you're not in the private sector, you're in the hall, you're in the test, you're in the test, you're in the hall, you're in the hall, you're in the hall, you're in the hall, you're in the hall, you're in the hall, you're in the hall, you're in the hall. Now, with such important examples ahead of us here, I'd like to point out that the Great National Assembly of Turkey is filled with supporters, and that this is a black spot. Dear friends, look, 1.455 people are temporarily employed according to Article 4/C of the Turkish Parliament's 2010 operational report, and part of them are paid 2,700 lira for the staff of our friends who offer us tea every day, but those of us who are from 4/C have a salary of 1,700 lira. We're not against buying $2,700, we're against the same person who's doing the same job, making the same tea, brewing the same tea, and serving us with a ridiculous fee of 1,700 lira, and therefore I want to tell them that our 4/C's friends need to be improved and that the staff needs to be opened. Again, our friends here who provide us with counseling will not receive the help of food and clothing that has so far been passed by this law. I'm warning you, we're guiding you before the car collapses, and we're saying that so far, our fellow counselors are getting food and clothing assistance, which they're getting right now, but they're going to be cut off along with this law that's going to be passed. Don't give them too much of this, they'll keep buying them. Again, our friends who provide us with counseling have increased their wages by the end of January to the end of the year, due to the increase of the tax matrix, and there is a decline in their salary. Don't make this fall, fellas. We're asking you guys not to let those friends' fees down. Last time, I told the Plan and Budget Commission about the high fees the Secretary General and the Deputy Secretary General and the office heads received. Once again, they rejected it there. They said, "No, it's not that." But now I'm getting a four-month salary bonus in the fiscal year, including January, April, July, October. It is also granted as a reward incentive bonus for up to two months, with approval for those who have been identified as successful in their efforts and efforts. Now, the people who have made this law, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we are not, friends, don't give yourself any credit, the Deputy Secretary General and Secretary General, the heads of the Office, they sit down, they form a bill according to themselves, and from now on they will run this place, not the President of the Turkish National Assembly, not the President of the National Assembly, but the bureaucrats. You're not supposed to let that happen, it's not true, you're not supposed to do that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Don't let the stenographers and other friends who work here with us until the morning be violated. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey must be ruled by its own will and run by its own. The bureaucrats who work here don't mean contempt, not contempt, but don't pass on our authority and authority to others, my friends. I wish you all a good evening.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0227par0079	Thank you, Mr. Pine. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0228par0083	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the second part of the Law Proposal on the Executive Service of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, number 83. On behalf of my party and myself, I salute your honorable delegation. Dear lawmakers, the law of the agency, which will come out at the end of these talks, is of great interest to the activities, functioning, future, lawmakers and staff of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Actually, we're here to pass on an inheritance to the future. This legacy will also be a trust. The institutional structure, institutional identity of the Turkish Grand National Assembly is very important. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a national organization representing the Turkish nation with its institutional structure, its identity, its work, its tradition, even its physical structure, its building, its equipment, its park garden, its Parliament and its citizens. Therefore, there must be a law that sets an example in the basic and method of this law. Again, we share a common responsibility as ruling and opposition, with a free stance from any political debate. We, the National Movement Party, have been looking at it this way from the beginning. So far, however, we have observed hesitations in the power wing, in the power wing, and in the administration as to what kind of organization structure should be. According to us, the principle of law, execution, independence of judicial men is at the top of issues where the law of parliament should be considered to be the most meticulous when the law is made. Unfortunately, this is the independence of the law, which has been neglected and violated the most since we started negotiations with this proposal. The motions issued by the ruling wing in the Plan and Budget Commission took into account the provisions issued on November 2, 2011, under Code 666. Unfortunately, in this proposal of the law, there is a shadow of Judgement 666, dear friends. In fact, regulations have been made regarding Parliamentary personnel under the 666th Amendment, based on a law of authority that does not include the rights of the rights and does not include the Turkish Parliament of the Great Nation. So the legislation was clearly interfered with. It's a wrong situation that we can never accept, and it's attitude, and unfortunately, that mistake continues one after another. Again, as of today, we've learned that some ruling party MPs have been able to bid off the scope of Decision 666. Again, we see that the ruling party has given up after the agreement on parliamentary activities in the Commission on television broadcasts. Dear friends, I condemn this attitude and behavior. We'd like to remind you that during talks on the Commission, there was a statement at that time that Mr. Cemil Cicek, who was the government's spokesman, the law of authority, did not include the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This statement is included in the reports and the Commission report. Now, as chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Mr. Cemil Cicek has unfortunately not moved a muscle. What kind of discrepancy is that? This attitude will not contribute to Mr. Cicek's credibility and dignity. Article 95 of the Constitution shall be envisioned by the Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which shall be organised and carried out by the power of Parliament. Again, with the amendment to Article 666, the powers of the Parliamentary Secretary General and the Council of Parliament's Presidential Court are narrowed down. As a result, we can say that the regulations made by the famous Order 666 have the right to live. Dear MPs, this is the legislature. A decree under the law must not bind the Turkish Parliament of the Great Nation. The separation of forces must be taken care of when making arrangements for the duties and responsibilities of parliament. The issue must be looked at in terms of the Constitution, democracy and law. The Court oversees the Parliament's account. The health administration will be transferred to the Ministry of Health. The security issue has been under discussion for years. Parliament-TRT relations are problematic. The presidential court is ineffective under the administration of the agency. It's possible to count these problems further. The need for the restructuring of parliament's administrative organization is a common opinion for all of us. Excessive employment attracts everyone's attention. Every member of the House has taken hundreds of staff. What's the criteria? No criteria. Your service wasn't considered. Incompatibility with the needs of the service, problems with the staff working at different status, issues such as the loss of different autonomy rights, business peace, the effective and efficient performance of the Parliamentary organization's duties. The reason for this proposal is that excessive employment is being reported, but in the law proposal, there seems to be a purpose to remove some personnel, create new staffs, provide new appointment opportunities. Subcontractorship is encouraged, no solutions to working in different statuses. Dear lawmakers, perhaps one of the most positive regulations of this proposal is the regulation of the legislative expertise with Article 31. I would like to say that we find it very positive that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is based on liqakat and career as legal experts on legislation and auditing, commission and General Assembly work. I'd like to say that these staffs will have a very positive future contribution to legislature activities. However, legislators are obliged to be brought up seriously, with discipline and with the best care. We also have stenographers who hold, organise, edit, prepare for publication, print, the most critical personnel of the House's legislative and audit activities. The stenographers, who perform a very special function, perform their unforgiving tasks successfully, selflessly, day and night after a very difficult upbringing. That's why we celebrate them all. But at the moment, there are very few stenographers in our House, not enough. 37 stenographers are trying to do their duty. There is a severe need for this number to be increased by two or three times as soon as possible. Not only the General Assembly, but all commissions are required to be taken within the hour or two at the latest when requested. Another important arrangement for stenographers is included in Article 32. The third joke of this article predicts that stenographer assistants can be assigned to these positions if they are successful in their three years of study and qualifying exams. These difficult courses of stenographers last between eight and thirteen months. Therefore, it would be wise to include the course times in their working hours. We find it positive that the parliamentary administration has decided on a norm staff and that there are no appointments until the norm staff numbers are down, that 40 per cent of the pension incentives have been cancelled, but first the norm staff work has to be done. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... andproposals of the staff to be determined. With these thoughts, I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0229par0110	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0230par0112	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have been promised the Peace and Democracy Party Group, and I salute you all. We are now discussing the second chapter of the Agency Law. ▪ Can we really do some work in common with good intentions, how can we do it here? • We pulled out four group MPs, worked in the back for a long time, but unfortunately the number of proposals we could agree on failed to pass the fingers of one hand. What's interesting here is that we're dealing with a situation where this agency's Law was discussed in the subcommittee, the Plan and Budget Commission was discussed in the upper commission, and we're seeing the transcripts in that commission, and we're seeing that they're coming here, and they're being modified, and they're being proposed to, and they're being changed at the last minute by the ruling party. Now, on the one hand, when we're building joint motions, there's a commission that's been working on one side, a joint commission text that's been pretty hard, coming up here, being replaced by motions. Now, with all the work, all the cooperation, all the work that you've done, when you're faced with this kind of situation, why does it really have to be this way? So this text came just a short time before the commission, and it hasn't filled its week, but there's over 30 percent of proposals on it. So when this commission text comes in, there's a very serious lack of preparation if there are more than 30 percent of text proposals coming in to the General Assembly, and really the speakers here are describing these problems. Now, I'd like to point out one of these: the 4/C thing. Everyone who comes out here about the 4/C thing talks and says they're uncomfortable. There's inequality here, there's lawlessness, there's injustice. So we also know that there are demands for improvements in other departments, counselling, secretary, and stenographers, in many different parts. Some of it was covered, but most of it, the victim's pen, my tongue wasn't covered. We talked in the back, and we insisted that the four-party casts be recruited as three parties: this number is not high. Let's hire the councilmen for ten or fifteen years. But we couldn't convince the ruling party. It's as if the finance budget -- the 5.521 employees who work here, a total number of employees -- are going to be given a staff of a certain number of 4/C.C.L.s -- is going to change the balance of the Turkish budget. So what is the source of that view? If you show the decision to pay 5 per cent of the employer's bonuses from the state treasury, and spend $5 billion in a budget year on government treasure, on employer's premiums, on the citizens' taxes, on employer's premiums, on the victims of the 4/C staff here, as well as on the same employer's bonuses -- which is not an issue of comparison -- you have to pay off your labor, you have to pay off your rights, you have to pay off your rights, you have to pay off your salary. We rebel against this injustice, we rebel against it on behalf of our group. We rebel against this approach, my friends. There's no arrangement here, we couldn't co-operate in this motion. How do we get it? Our friends from the AK PARTY group said: "We will make up 20 per cent of the staff taken every term from 4/C. There's already a exile, there's a deportation clause under the name "restraint." I'm afraid we don't see the will to regulate it here. This is a matter of temporary matter, and we'll have a motion on that. We want everyone to feel their own conscience again. Another issue: Now, a discussion of the 15th article occurred here. In this discussion, Parliament TV had to bring the group meetings to life, and the work of the General Assembly was to be aired live. Now, you're looking at all the modern, improved parliaments, the work of parliament is transparent, public, public. The public wonders what the MPs have chosen to do, whether they are asleep; who is asleep and who is not sleeping in the morning meetings; who is working and who is not working; who is watching, even following his deputy. I was elected in 2007, we came, we're on the Plan and Budget Commission in November. There's a meeting in the Plan and Budget Commission every day, but I can't get down here, General Board, but there's a live feed. We're looking for a voter from Antalya. We're always looking for Hasip Kaplan. But we can't see him at the General Assembly. Let him go, he's paying attention to what the citizen's deputy is wearing, and he's paying attention to what he's saying. It's about the citizen. So these screens... they raise electricity every day, they've already been distributed by privatisation of electricity companies, they've taken all the companies, they've all gone last year, the energy market's gone, they've got an automatic raise. Now, from these raises, from taxes to TRT, money is being transferred, works with the citizen's money. Did you ever see the TRT, working with the citizen's money, turn the government's official broadcasting body, call for opposition parties for a day and hold an open session? We didn't see it. At least have a little compassion for Parliament TV. You've got your holdings, you've got your media, you've got all the media under control, you've got the monopoly. Chiefs of General Staff gather editors, you start to collect, Prime Minister gathers, not enough, Deputy Prime Minister gathers, says: You will embargo the opposition, you will not publish. I'll send tax collectors, inspectors to the ward. Aha, are you curious? This is the end of the yachts and the end of the Dogan Group. If you're going to be like the Charik group, you're going to be ally and friendly media, you're going to be one-sided deformation of information, you're going to be in power, you're going to be in opposition, you have a right to live. Now, there's a conscience, a mercy, a morality, a media ethics, a press council, a press council, the ethics of the world's universal rules, but if you turn the media into mining companies, like the mining companies, you'll try to look for gold, chrome, whatever, and you'll try to broadcast the opposition in a way that doesn't apply to power, and if you break the record of freedom of the press, if it's the most indoor, you'll try to restrict the voice of the Parliament TV. To limit the voice of Parliament TV, to break transparency, to establish the order of the House... Each group meeting has leaders coming in, these leaders prepping and giving weekly agenda talks. From there, all parties come to meetings, and since there's an internal meeting, there's more important talk than the General Assembly. Right, your conglomerates, other than your media, the media you've captured, don't let it go live, we'll see about the ruling party, you'll find a handle for it. Well, at least we see opposition parties and so on and so forth when they want to go public with their work from TV work in Congress. This is a very serious mistake. It's because I can't believe in democracy, the will of the people, the opinion of the people, the self-esteem of a party that has received 49.9% of the votes to vote for it. This month needs to be put to rest, folks. I'm just saying, it's not a debate, it's not a debate, it's not a debate, but Parliament TV should be on. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0231par0123	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. On behalf of the individuals, Mr. Mehmet Günal of Antalya. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0232par0127	Thank you. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, in my speech on chapter one, I thought I'd tell you in that moment because the TV broadcast was going to be over. Now, I'll tell you in peace, they're gone. We've made a motion in the General Assembly to have the group meetings published and published. Now, there was also a motion here to broadcast the broadcast, so why are you so afraid of the opposition? What are you afraid of?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0233par0130	That's why we're so scared.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0232par0131	I know you're scared, but why? So there's a group meeting for an hour a week. I just told you. You're all here, come on, turn it on, give it to a TV special, have it televised. What do we need TBM TV for? I'm truly sorry to say who's changing the things we've agreed to up here, how is it that the decisions made in the commission, the subcommittee, are contrary to the will of the TBMP? This is not about the government, Mr. President, it's not about the government's proposal, it's how you change it with the Speaker, the Vice President's proposal, the Party's challenge, I still don't get it. So, please, you're already removing this after seven, and you're not saying the General Assembly, you're not saying the whole thing, you're not saying the whole thing, and you're not sure when you're going to publish it. Why did we have it printed out? If TBM doesn't make TV, if TRT doesn't give us the frequency, we're telling him to broadcast other TVs. Now, someone's been bothering him, giving instructions, getting him removed. What kind of understanding is that, frankly, I'm surprised. Same thing with the staff. We deal upstairs, the subcommittee works, the bureaucrats work, our friends come over here and say something else. We've told the staff, for example, the overtime fees, it's all out here, so he'll do whatever he wants with the presidential court's initiative. There are other things down there. There's still inequality with the executive staff. Here, again, what will our advisors do when they're done -- you're saying all of them, we're saying there's injustice -- when they're done? No severance pay, he's fine. What's this guy gonna do? I mean, he worked, two years, three years. At least we said we'd pay for them if we worked for a certain year, which we don't have. Now, there's a privilege here for law enforcement. We've given it to those who have come so far, but what if it's a temporary assignment from now on? You give something to the people who work for your MPs, we don't give it to the people on the other side. There's a double standard of law enforcement again. Also, there's a reduction in payments to employees from the public on temporary assignment, so it's going to be difficult for us to get qualified personnel. And again, in the motion that we brought in, we wanted to differentiate between our employees based on the condition of their studies, in order to avoid injustice, and now there's a price differentiation based on titles. Unfortunately, these are all very problematic substances. Of course, when it passes like this in a hurry, like before -- they're still trying to fix our friends on one side -- unfortunately, we're not going to victimize these issues, so the victims are increased. On the one hand, the offers we've made to reduce the victimhood are being reversed, and there's a structure here that could lead to serious personnel destruction. Dear friends, in these circumstances, after this law is passed, we get the right to transfer, send, send all employees to any public institution. It's a massacre, we said. Under the circumstances, then you have a chance to get all the staff out of here. In case there's a need, it's a very pleasant expression. Therefore, the injustice of these matters must be resolved and I repeat: Look, you're eating a lot of rights here, you're causing injustice among employees. I've told you so many times, in many verses of the Qur'an, Allah says, "Hold up the right." The right of a servant is one of the most important rights. We have spoken in the previous laws. I'd like you to review these again, and I'd like you to make these arrangements in the next interim materials, or in the previous ones, and to eliminate the injustice between the staff and the injustice between the staff and the other staff in general administrative services class. Otherwise, there's no way... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd also like to say that you have no right to use the word "justice." I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0234par0146	Thank you, Mr. Günal. On behalf of the individuals, the last word belongs to Mr. Necdet Ünivar. Here you go, Mr. Unüvar.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0235par0150	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on behalf of the Supreme National Assembly of Turkey, 83 rows, the Proposal of the Executive Service Act. I salute you all. Dear friends, there are very important regulations under this law. One is the transfer of the Parliamentary health department to the Ministry of Health with a protocol with the Ministry of Health. The Plan and Budget Commission held several discussions on the lower commission, on the main commission, at the point of the better transfer of these services to the Ministry of Health, which said that these services should remain in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, from the relationship between the legalisation and the execution on this issue. On this occasion, dear friends, as a physician, I'd like to talk a little bit about the health-related situation of our MPs. The legislature is a very difficult and demanding task. We are all, on the one hand, a group in our own constituency that is also at serious health risk because of our activities, our activities under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the one hand, the Adeta MP creates a crowd that has no opportunity to take an interest in the people he has to serve, or in the work he considers to be responsible for. Health services in the Turkish Grand National Assembly must therefore be truly excellent. This is not the first time this has come up on the agenda of the House. In 2005, the issue was raised during the law on the transfer of health facilities to the Ministry of Health in other public institutions and institutions, particularly to the SEC. At the time, I was undersecretary of Health, and there was a lot of controversy, and eventually it became clear that the Turkish National Assembly's health department would improve health care if it remained in parliament. I was in a different opinion at the time. But in the past six years, as a physician, I'd like to express my observations as a physician, at least not at the level we want. Of course, I'm not going to tell you that there's something wrong with the employee, the doctor, the nurse, or any other medical staff. But health care is supposed to be the best health care service for people working in the Grand National Assembly, especially as our MPs, but come on, the picture right now is not like that. I think these services will come to a much better place after they've taken over the Ministry of Health under this law, because we've had a lot of challenges at the point of resolving a number of health problems from the past, from a long time ago, during the work of both the Commission and the General Assembly. I personally believe that these problems will be eliminated by this era, and, of course, in this framework, I'd like to express that this is the intervention of living in the Plan and Budget Commission. But basically, we have to say that a physician's intervention in the body of an MP is not considered an intervention in the law, it cannot be considered that way. In the end, it means that our high-risk lawmakers are better monitored and treated than health care. So I have taken the oath to express this era on behalf of myself, that I personally care very much as a doctor, that services will be much better. I wish you all the best of the law, especially our MPs, to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0236par0159	Thank you, Mr. Unüvar. I'll proceed with the QA. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0237par0162	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, I'd like to ask my Deputy President that this arrangement is based on the increased pensions and incentives of retired personnel. Instead, would it not be more realistic to have an arrangement reflected in pensions, or could it be improved? Second: What will be the status of personnel working at 112 emergency stations in parliament? Third: Can the uncertainty of friends who are in the 4/C staff and who are serving as a camp in this hall be resolved? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0238par0167	Mr. President, please.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0239par0168	The personnel working at 112 emergency services are of the Ministry of Health, not members of Parliamentary Presidency, so we cannot make any arrangements. The situation of the Kavas working for the General Assembly will also benefit from the same arrangement, Mr. Light, whatever arrangements are to be made on 4/C personnel.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0238par0170	The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. I submit Article 31 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 32 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There is a motion in Article 33: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Number 2/92, which is the main law proposal. Norm's crew is 33. Following the statement of norm staff principles and standards are applied in the Executive Agency under the Article, those who have started the examination of the General Secretariat staff cannot be considered a norm surplus. We offer and propose that the declaration be added. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Prof. Dr. Good morning, Dr. Aytun Çiray Ahmet Toptaş Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Mehmet Ali Editoglu Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0240par0184	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0238par0185	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0241par0186	We can't agree.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0242par0187	Dear Süleyman Çelebi...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0238par0188	Mr. Süleyman Çelebi, İstanbul MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0243par0191	Mr. President, members of the High Council, I salute you with respect and love. We're actually discussing an important law at this time of night, but it's particularly important to everyone that we're concerned with when we're discussing this law, and it concerns all of us, and it concerns our friends who work here. According to 657, we have friends who work here, we have friends who work at status 4/A, we have friends who work at 4/B, we have friends who work at 4/C status, we have contractors, we have contractors. Now think of a parliament, where the employees of a council are in the field of working in such different categories, and between friends who serve in the same field, who do the same work, there is such a difference in both pay and working conditions. If you show a country parliament, there are so many different working conditions, and we brought it to you. If only we could hear it from you. There's no such thing. What is to be done now is the precious friends of the people of the Lord, who have changed, who will now rule over the kingdom of the bureaucracy. What is to be done now is the sovereignty of bureaucracy. It's a structure that is so dominated by the bureaucracy, and in this parliamentary process, when the next work is presented to the Deputy Speaker, here's a note from behind, without a will, whatever the bureaucracy says, we'll raise our hand and raise our fingers for him. My dear friends, I was actually going to talk about censorship about TRT, and I made a promise on that clause, but it passed. There was already a channel, where a fellow citizen could hear different voices from here. TRT1 is in the hands of power; TRT2 is in the power of power; TRT is in the power of power until we reach the musical channels; you have 95 percent of the private channels. There was a channel, which was stuck in case sometimes our voices were heard. Because what is wanted? The Prime Minister used to call it the oligarchy of the bourocras. That's the app that carries the oligarchy right here in this process. This is where the oligarchy tests. This is where the dominant structure has been moved. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] In health care, therefore, the transfer to the ministry of health is a preparation for the future. It'll be transferred to the Ministry of Health, and he didn't run it well. It'll be called a private sector, and it'll be transferred to a private sector, just like any other subcontractor, just like the other subcontracted staff.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0244par0197	What have the SECs become?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0243par0198	We know what you've done to the SEC.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0244par0199	Citizen knows, citizen!
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0243par0200	Before, there was an open cari. You said, you've doubled the current deficit four times. You said there was an opening. You said there was an opening. So we all see where the financing of all this goes. My dear friends, we see the point of this process. We ask that no injustice be done to the friends who work here at this port. We'd like you to decide with a little conscience about these equal, unfair and future-determining practices, if you have any conscience. Last night, the other law was all about wallets, so at least in this law, let your conscience speak one more time. I call on your conscience to consider these laws as a whole, and do not allow them. Do not allow this oligarchic structure, and we will all contribute to this process together. In order to contribute a little bit to the opposition's proposal on this matter, I would like to vote... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like you to consider a different point. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0245par0206	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. I submit Article 33 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 34, which I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 5 of Article 34 of Article 34 be removed from the text of Article 83 of the following article. Ahmet Aydın Nureddin Nebati of Nurettin Canikli Abdulkerim Gök Ahmet New Pelin Günş Bakır Mihrimah Belma Loves to Fight Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0246par0219	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0245par0220	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0247par0221	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0245par0222	Yes, he agrees...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0248par0223	Motive...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0245par0224	I'm reading the reason: Reason: The need for cash to pay for public administrations currently under the general budget is submitted to the Undersecretary of Treasury under the Nakde Daya Payment System electronically, and is met by the Undersecretary on the basis of the emergency and payment time. The cash is paid daily and is paid daily in cash. The current application provides no shortage of cash requirements. The public administration's payment and collection operations under the general budget are organised in detail as to how to determine and meet its cash needs in the electronic environment and so on; the meeting, the organisation, travel and so on. There is an arrangement for daily and immediate cash delivery for situations. For nearly two and a half years, the ministry's Central Accounting Units have had no problems with the system so far. The intended arrangement may be a problem for cash management and will be able to produce the cash by holding it in the accounts for no reason. There is a need to avoid problems with the motion. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0249par0229	Mr. President, it's just a matter of time before...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit05spe0245par0230	I'm going to call a number of decisions. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough decision-making, I give the merger a ten-minute recess.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0245par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 26th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in the vote of Mr. Nurettin Canikli and his friends' motion given on Article 34 of the Law Proposal 83. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is accepted, the decision is sufficient. We'll resume negotiations on the proposal from where we left off. The commission is here. The Presidential Court representative is here. In accordance with the motion adopted on Article 34, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 35th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 36 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 36 of Law Proposal Number 83 be removed from the proposal text. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Şandir Seyfettin Yılmaz Erkan Akçay Emin Haluk Ayhan Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0250par0018	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0245par0019	Does the Presidential Court agree?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0251par0020	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0252par0021	Mr. Seyfettin Yilmaz...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0245par0022	Mr. Seyfettin Yilmaz, please.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0253par0024	I have received a pledge on behalf of the motion we made regarding Article 36 of the Turkish National Assembly's Executive Agency's Law Proposal. I salute your high council. What does the 36th article say? With the purchases of goods and services related to the repairs and restoration of the historical buildings and artifacts in charge of the presidency of the presidency of TBMM and the purchase of legal services by the president of the TBMM... without subject to the provisions of the Public Relations Act. And what is the Public Contraction Act 4734, which he wants to be an exception to? Public tender Act 4734 was published on 22/01/2002 in the Official Gazette, and has been adopted since 2003, so it is a law passed in our great Parliament. Law number 4734 has not lifted Law 2886, and any purchase of goods and services from administrations within the implementation since 01/01/2003 and is under way for the implementation of the Law on Public Retribution in the tender of construction jobs, for example, in the matter of sale, subletting and the non-existent rights facility of property. According to Law 4734, the open bidding procedure and the tender procedure are basic among those who are willing. The aim of this Law is to determine the basic and procedures to be implemented in the tenders of public institutions and institutions that are subject to public law or under public supervision or using public resources. As a result of recent developments in the fight against corruption, the Strategy for Increased Transparency and Strengthening Anti-Corruption Strategy has been adopted by the Council of Ministers and the action plan has been drafted. In this action plan strategy, Public Contraction Law 4734 has been considered among the main regulations in the field of increasing transparency and fighting corruption in recent years. Although the action plan included a measure of review of the public tender system under the heading of the action, when Law 4734 first came into force, the last exception clause, which was five dentures, came out on me, along with the latest changes. Except, by definition, it means being kept apart, being excluded. In accordance with Law 4734, there are exceptions in Article 3 of the exceptional law, with the exception of some products, goods and services, by the name of the productions or by the general rule of law. Expenses in the number of jobs and matters are excluded from the scope of the law. Law 4734, which regulates public purchases, has seen a lot of serious changes in nine years. Part of these changes contain elements that are at risk of political rants. Although this risk shows itself in the constraints and extenuated exceptions, which have been narrowed down by the changes made, with the exceptions, the tender law now seems to be the means to create a model of capital buildup close to political power. It is clear that the implementation of this model includes other public institutions and organisations involved in local governments and production. It is clear that the reduction of public supervision and the liberalisation of the tender processes from the openness and quality competitiveness of the law that constitutes the founding philosophy of the law will cause serious problems in the rational use of public resources in public interest. As a result of all this, it would not be too ambitious to say that the tender system has increased the risk of more and more involvement in corruption and irregularities, given the content of the particular substance, which is intended to be supported by the bureaucratic rant mechanism of political Rant. Isn't this the great assembly that issued Public Contraction Law number 4734? Isn't the purpose of this Law to make tenders in all public institutions, honest, transparent, participant, where no one is favoured? How do we explain the exception of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to the great Turkish nation when this law is enforced in all public institutions and institutions? How are we going to apply these laws to public institutions? I would like to propose that this clause be removed from the law with these thoughts, thank you, all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0254par0028	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 37, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the last sentence of Article 37 of Law Proposal 83 be changed in the following way. Ahmet Aydın Nureddin Nebati of Nurettin Canikli Salih Big Zeynep Karahan Goody The results of the examination are presented to the information of the General Assembly. Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0255par0040	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0254par0041	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0256par0042	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0257par0043	Motive...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0254par0044	I'm reading the reason: "The Commission presents the results of its investigation with a report." It is intended to preserve the process of being informed by the General Assembly, which has been traditionally ongoing so far. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit to your votes the Article 37, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 38 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two proposals in Article 39, which I make read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 39 of "The Executive Service Act of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey" in the following way. Nurettin Canikli Zeynep Karahan Good Ahmet Aydın Mahir Ünal Nureddin Nebati Abdulkerim Gök "Securities 39 - (1) of the MPs and administrative services are provided with staff, pensioners, contractual, temporary and temporary staff, and health care services for those they are obliged to care for within the ÜMMM compound, under the protocol between the Ministry's presidency and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health, under the framework of the ministry's education and research hospitals in the TBMM compound. " Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 38th draft proposal for the Executive Service's Law on the Supreme National Assembly of Turkey, 83 Sequence Numbered Turkey, which is currently in session. We offer and propose that the Article be removed from the Charter text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haluk Ahmet Aydın Agha Ayyadın Ali Riza Özturk Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam Kazim Kurt Osman Aydın Süleyman Çelebi Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0258par0070	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0254par0071	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0259par0072	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0254par0073	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0260par0074	He'll speak privately.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0254par0075	Manisa Congressman Special, please.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0261par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. In Article 39 and Article 39, we will make a decision here to determine who will provide health care for us in the future, and whether or not the staff who are offering health care to us will continue in their rights or duties. According to the current situation, the proposal is to transfer health care to the Ministry of Health here with a protocol for both physical space and personnel. In fact, that's what we said when we made this decision, which we've always said, for example, when we were objecting to the laws of the law. For example, when the Health Commission had both the ruling party and the opposition party, an expert on the subject and consulted, or, in fact, a high-value advisory committee that could not easily be found there, the laws of the law were prepared under the direction of bureaucrats and without ideas from social parties. Now, we're doing something much narrower in Congress, but maybe there should be a survey of satisfaction here. Because I don't think there's any objection to that -- the health care that we're going to receive at the expense of the House budget, which is more expensive than today. They estimate that this will bring about 10 trillion liras or 7 trillion liras of additional loads, and at this point, an additional load will come into parliament's budget as soon as we get to a point where we can buy services from the Ministry of Health from a place that produces health care itself. Are our lawmakers not satisfied with this health care that is being produced and operated on us and within the House campus? Has such a survey of satisfaction been conducted that we're paying $10 trillion more? So there's another side to it: there's some problems with the rights of the staff working there. Although some of the interim 8th clauses are encouraged to retire and, regardless of the conditions for working for two years, if there is a situation related to retirement through today's autonomy rights, the whole of the substance appears to be transferred to the Ministry of Health, where people working there will be transferred to the Ministry of Health and can be assigned to different places within Ankara. So far, we are taking the position of those health staff who have given the Parliament the most important services that we have ever had -- pharmacists, doctors, dentists, for eight or nine years -- to complain about the policies the ruling party has established -- that some in the squares, some in the actions -- have taken advantage of the part of the medical staff in which they are in relative peace, and they have been losing their peace. I also have to point out that this is a legislature, but we leave the management of health services that are being submitted to the legislature to the executive body and a ministry. The opinion of our group, at its point of regret, is also supported by law, and we have to submit this to the discretion of the High Assembly, and we have to express clearly that this draft is now this, with the decision of a group, right now, hands up, down, it's happening in a lot of things, but now it's a matter of health care that will be offered to those who have served here and who have done the rights before it. At least there's an empathy here, looking for a common mind, looking for a common mind, how do we do it here, friends? It might be right to discuss a better improvement here, instead of paying off our pockets to the Ministry of Health, which will come up with an additional 7 trillion or 10 trillion dollars to improve the current situation. I still don't think this opportunity has been missed, Mr. Speakers, as well as to express his views on these amendment proposals during the Commission, and to you, my esteemed Vice President. I think this opportunity needs to be taken care of, and our opinion on this is that the current situation will continue with improvements, but of course, it's the Supreme Assembly that will make the decision. I salute you all on behalf of my group. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0262par0088	Thank you, Mr. Special. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 39 of "The Executive Service Act of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey" in the following way. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends "Securities 39 - (1) of the MPs and administrative services are provided with staff, pensioners, contractual, temporary and temporary staff, and health care services for those they are obliged to care for within the ÜMMM compound, under the protocol between the Ministry's presidency and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health, under the framework of the ministry's education and research hospitals in the TBMM compound. " Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0263par0096	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0262par0097	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0264par0098	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0265par0099	Motive...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0262par0100	I'm reading the reason: Buying health care, including matter and all personnel, will be regarded as an exception from the General Health Insurance. The motion is intended to prevent this situation. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit to your votes the Article 39, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are four proposals in Article 40, which I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 40 of the current bill. We would like to add the following statement to the end of the clause. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Turgut Dibek == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Reparations paid for law enforcement and other law enforcement services continue to be paid. Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0266par0114	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0262par0115	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0267par0116	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0268par0117	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0262par0118	Mr. Haydar Akar. Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0269par0121	You see the difference between the husband and the president, don't you, Mr. President?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0262par0122	He said to me, "Do you see the difference between the Big One and the Big One?" Yes, please.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0269par0124	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We continue to discuss the Agency's Law, but we meet the Agency's Law as quickly as we did last night, such as the mercenary law or the military law of the rich. And we'll start to see its problems one by one in the next few days or months. I hope we don't run the House again after seven months to make a change in this law, as you have agreed before, as we discussed a law that is a law of the rich, law of the fixers. I hope we get in the way of all this. Now, I've had a talk about security services, and I'd like to make a suggestion, but first let's define: the law enforcement and management services of all buildings, facilities, plugins and properties of the Turkish National Assembly of Turkey are organised and run by the hands of the President of TBMM. For police and other law enforcement services, sufficient force is assigned to the Ministry of the Interior (TBMM) presidency. It is referred to in the article. All of the guards here and the duties of the ceremonial battalion have been transferred to the security units here. There is no problem so far, but it is necessary to continue the process of implementing legislation provisions on the financial and social rights of employees employed at the time of the implementation of the Article No. 666 and of Article 375, under the interim Article 14/th Amendment, as well as the General Secretary General of the Grand Assembly of Turkey and the General Secretary General of the National Security Council. The 41st joke (d) of Article 41 (d) and the first joke of Article 14 of Article 14 (d) under which the Turkish National Assembly's Presidency's Executive Service's Proposal shall not take advantage of these financial and social rights to be appointed in case of legalisation of the existing personnel and personnel assigned by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, including those assigned by law. So we're here in the mornings, and we're here in the mornings, and we're here in the cold Ankara days, and our policemen, or our policemen who meet us at the gates, or the police who meet us at Parliament squares, or the police who are currently taking advantage of their duties, are going to be able to take advantage of the following social rights and financial rights, but it's also contrary to the principle of equality, which we're going to call out to these new members of the parliamentary staff, as well as the new pensioners in this Parliament. A man who does the same job, stands at the same two doors, an old man, a new cop friend, will not benefit from the same social rights and rights. This is all wrong. Our suggestion is that you give an opinion on the adoption of this motion so that there is no difference between those who do the same task. One foot of this stuff is lame, it's lame. And we would like to suggest that you and I, together, correct this for our friends. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0270par0131	Thank you, Mr. Akar. You've shown the difference between the two of you, and by using time very well, thank you very much. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. I submit Article 40 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in the first clause of Article 41 that I'm going to read and process. I propose and propose that the first joke of Article 41 of the Executive Agency's Law Proposal, number 83, which is currently in session, should be changed in the following way. Article 41-15/07/1950 and passport code 5682. On the third part of the article, "The Secretary General of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey," following the declaration of the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic, the 14th Secretary-General of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the same law. Article 1 of the article "T.C. Following the declaration of "government officials and other public officials, whose pensions have been contracted to be taken out of these ranks by the pensioner's Ark," the statement added to the Turkish National Assembly's advisers, political party group advisers, and parliamentary advisers serving in the Turkish Parliament's Executive Office." Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0271par0142	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0270par0143	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0272par0144	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0270par0145	The presidency disagrees. Mr. Gunpowder, no. In the TBM administration, some of the advisers serving in the political party groups and along with the MP, are working as a staff at the TBMM or other public institutions and institutions, while they are temporarily engaged in this task, and most of them are under contract. Although there is no difference between the rights of equity among counselors, staff staff from public institutions and institutions are taking advantage of the degree and green passport provided by the 657 State Officers Act, while the non-executive staff has no such rights to the same title leads to inequalities among employees who have the same position. This motion also aims to eliminate the inequality between consultants for the right to use passports, as well as to provide the rights given to state officials serving other public institutions and organisations in a certain degree and rank, to the personnel providing the largest assistance and support for parliamentary services to Parliament Speakers, group presidents and MPs. With the adoption of our amendment proposal, the amendments, which allow political party groups and lawmakers to meet the need for qualified staff and assistant staff, are included in the general reason for the proposal of the law. It will thus contribute to the implementation of the objective of the relationship of its political authority with the Executive Agency to be carried out on a strategic level such as policy development, system building, making national and international business units," and it will also contribute to the TBMM's reputation as well as to the position of the TBMM's advisers in the third amendment of the 13th Article of the Passport Law. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the first joke of Article 41: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to you the 2nd joke of Article 41: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes the third joke of Article 41: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to you the 4th joke of Article 41: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to you the 5th joke of Article 41: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I present to you the 6th joke of Article 41: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes the 7th joke (a) and (b) of Article 41: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The 7th joke (c) of Article 41 has a motion to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 83 S. We propose and propose that Article 41 of the Numbered Law Proposal be taken out of the text of substance (c) of the seventh joke (c) of Article 41 of the Numbered Law Proposal, and that other dams be identified. Nurettin Canikli Mustafa Kalaycı Ahmet Aydın Oya Eronat Vedat Demiröz Salih Husband Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0273par0169	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0270par0170	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0274par0171	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0270par0172	What do we do?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0275par0173	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0270par0174	I'm having it read. The provision for overwork for TBM employees is intended to be removed from the text in order to prevent reciprocity from being covered by this Law. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We don't vote because the 7th joke (c) of Article 41 was removed from the text of matter. I submit to your votes the 7th joke of Article 41: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The 7th joke (d) based on Article 41 (d) has a motion, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 83 S. We propose and propose that the declaration be added to the subsection of Article 41 of the Numbered Law Proposal, except for those who work at the National Assembly of Turkey, before the declaration of "The Ministry of Internal Affairs." Ahmet Aydın Eşref Taş of Nurettin Canikli Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mihrimah Belma Kürın Ekrem Çelebi Zeynep Karahan Good Nureddin Nebati Smurf Ünal Sevim Berker Abdulkerim Gök Mehmet Metiner Türkan Dağoğlu Tülayşoğlu Tülay Kaynarca Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0276par0194	He appreciates it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0270par0195	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0277par0196	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0278par0197	Motive...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0270par0198	I'm reading the reason: The amendment has been suggested that regulations for those in charge of the TBM are required in this Law. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes the 7th joke (d) of Article 41: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes the number eight, nine, ten, eleven, according to Article 41: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to you the 12th joke of Article 41: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There is a motion in Article 41, which I shall have read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 13 of the Law on the Executive Service Act of the Supreme National Assembly of Turkey, 83 Sequence Numbered Turkey, which is currently being held, is the 13th Amendment of the 41th Amendment. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. İhsan Özkes Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Süleyman Çelebi Aydın Ayyadın Ali Riza Özturk Kazım Kurt Musa Pine Haluk Ahmet Silver Osman Aydın (13) The first joke (a) of Article 15 of the Law on Public Officers Unions No. 25/6/2001 (4688) has been changed to "The Secretary General of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey" (a) as "the Vice President and a member of the Executive Service of the National Assembly of Turkey." Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0279par0218	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0270par0219	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0280par0220	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0281par0221	Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0270par0222	İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0282par0224	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers have so far expressed a lot of sincere, sincere proposals by the opposition here. So really, in fact, a lot of proposals that could come up with a solution are rejected by your votes. Now...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0283par0225	Many proposals have been accepted, jointly suggested...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0282par0226	No, no, no, I mean they're important, not the sideburns, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, but the issues that are relevant.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0283par0227	We've organized the foundation, we've organized it together.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0282par0228	Now, we're talking about advanced democracy, you know, when forward democracy came to our country after the Constitutional change. After the amendment to Article 51 of the Constitution, at least now, do not step in front of the union rights of staff here, which are the rights of the workers here, do not block it, prevent it, let them be free union members again, without leaving it in the monopoly of the bureaucracy, at least without telling you what's wrong with you, at least not with the courage to come to you, not by the union rights of the staff here, who can't bring these problems to you. That's what we want first. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, look, the Swedish police union was established in 1886 in what you call a democracy -- a proposal about the police force as well -- founded in 1883, the officer's union was established in 1883. What were we most proud of in our country? Article 90 of the Constitution. When there were people from the international area, the first constitutional amendment was a significant change as we unionists. In Turkey, international contracts have now been secured under Article 90. Now, is there such a guarantee? Now, are we in Turkey, where the 90th article of the Constitution is applied, or are we in Turkey? Therefore, we place it in this Parliament when we withdraw to the 5th and 6th Article of the European Social Condition. On the one hand, forward democracy, obstacles on the one hand, dams on the front, and union rights like this. Now, the people who work here, who don't want to be driven any more, at least from this proposal, let those 4/C have a union right here, at least in this Parliament, to negotiate with us. Let those in 4/A, those in 4/B, those who are subject to 657, come here, in order to compensate for their injustice and inequality, let us at least recognize such freedom at this time and at this time, at least this kind of freedom, without putting a dam in front of our friends, let's give them this right, give them union rights, we'd like that, in our suggestion, not to see too much of it, dear friends. If you see much of this, those who serve you, from your side tomorrow, and from your side, will give you these truly bowing services. Those who have suffered these injustices will provide these services in your presence, not in honor, but in an obligation to you. Let's at least set these friends free in that sense and remove the obstacles to union rights and freedoms for these friends to get their rights. At least here he wishes you all to raise your hand once and for all, with respect and love.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0284par0235	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0285par0237	Mr. Goody, why don't you go talk to him for once? Support him as union president, go talk to him.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0284par0238	I present to you the 13th joke, based on Article 41: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I present to you the 14th joke on Article 41: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The first joke in the framework of Article 41, the second joke, the third joke, the fourth joke, the fourth joke, the fifth joke, the sixth joke, the seventh joke (a) and (b) the second joke (c), the seventh joke (c), the seventh joke (c) which was taken, the seventh joke (d), the seventh joke (d) in the hand; and those who did not accept it, the one who did not accept it, the one who did not accept it, the one who did not accept it. I submit Article 42 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. Now, let's begin the talks of section three. The third section covers the interim 1-12th and 44th. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu has asked for a statement on the third chapter. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0286par0248	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the proposal of the Supreme National Assembly of Turkey's Executive Law, 83 rows under discussion. I salute you all with love and respect, sir. My dear friends, we are all working together on a law that will support the work of a man of law for many years. The parts that have been happening so far have been mostly about organization, they've been part of organization, they've been more concrete, they've been more understandable, they've been particulate, but the next part is about transitional provisions, more technical parts, more complex parts. We haven't discussed enough about the chapters that have happened so far, but know that the employees of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are restless, disturbed, troubled; they talk about them all day long, we, you, all of us. There's a disturbance. The transition period is very important. Look, a transition from a period to a period is the most important issue. So far, we haven't done enough work, we haven't done enough work, but we have to work very closely on the next part. These kinds of laws, administrative agency laws, they don't often come out, they shouldn't, but they're very important. We're not doing anything simple. Look, we're all sitting around at this time of night, working together, not doing anything simple. We're trying to establish a law that concerns a lot of people together. 5,000 in sight, 20, 25,000 with their families. But not just them, but us, the National Assembly of Turkey, as a lawmaker, are trying to draft an exemplary law. We have to take this time of night or day seriously, no matter what, seriously, we have to stay on top of it. We're doing something important. We need to realize that, we need to understand that, together. For an institution, it is the most important issue for personnel to be reluctant, to complain, to be troubled. Look, our employees today are all troubled. Once this law is passed, they'll be even more troubled tomorrow. This law was already troubled. You know, our friends also said it was a law from September 12th. He was troubled. This is the first time this Congress has ever done such law work on its own. That's great, but no one should be sorry after doing this, if only the old one had stayed. That's why we need to take this seriously. Look, as our opposition, the motions for all opposition parties have been rejected in the department so far, without even looking at what it is. But this part is very technical. Please consider our motions in this section, take it seriously, we'll discuss it together, we'll come up with something serious. It's not often, as I say, that kind of law is not made, it shouldn't be made. So we have to take this seriously. The Law of State Officers No. 657 and Parliamentary Law 2919 -- which we now remove by Article 42 (before this), the Law, which we now lift from force by Article 42, are the exception of the General Secretary General's Code of the Turkish National Assembly, the law, which is based on the exception of the officership -- and this is the purpose of the case: it regulates issues that require very special, qualified work. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is one of those places. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is Turkey's heart, its most important institution, an institution to set an example for. So the work that's going to be done here has to be an example of all of Turkey, all of Turkey's institutions, ministries, organizations. It's arranged for him in an exceptional form of civil service. We all have to make an example of law together, but if we go on like this, we'll make a more complicated law. In particular, when we started drafting this law -- I'm a member of the Plan Budget Commission -- when the Plan came to the Budget Commission, there was a law order. Look at the lack of seriousness or insecurity of the Plan Budget Commission or insecurity of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The law proposal comes to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Plan comes to the Budget Commission, and then there's a law order coming out, and it's really messed up, and it's made things worse. It's an insecurity, a huge mistake, to you, to us, to all of us. We really have to take this seriously. I'm sorry. We're all, of course, at this time of night, we're children, we're joking, we're saying something, but we're doing it wrong, dear friends, we're really doing it wrong. If this keeps up, there's gonna be a bad situation, a bad situation. So far, the people who worked for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as they've just been described -- there was someone behind everyone, they had uncles, there was a crippled law. The provision, which brought exceptions, eventually brought in a crippled application, where there were huge mistakes, and it really needs to be corrected. Let's fix this injury. Now we need to make a much bigger injury, and we need to make no mistake. I know a lot of you, high-value lawmakers, we have some very valuable friends among you, really individuals, people who have grown up very well in their field. Now, think of the law that we've taken out of the way, a study like this... look, whatever we've done since day one, we've been rejected, what's been done, what's been done here, what's been made, what's done, what's been given, even they're not looked at, they're raised, they're down, we're rejected, and you're... believe me, if our work in these hours had been passed on televisions, we'd all be upset, we'd all be in trouble. Maybe it's only right that it's not given out of television, because it's a shame, a shame, for all of us.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0287par0257	Why, you know what we do together?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0286par0258	What? So you're saying that what we're doing, what we're doing is right, that it's the right way to do it, sir?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0288par0259	Right to you, wrong to me.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0286par0260	It's not true to anyone, no one can claim that it's right to work like this, my dear friend, it really can't, and neither can you. No one can say that this is the right way to work. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, there was a motion made today, and I had my signature on it. I'm sure you've been told, but Mr. Mustafa Balbay, a friend of ours...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0289par0263	Well, now that you've tied him up, congratulations.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0286par0264	May Allah not leave you in that state. Look, this is what I wish for.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0289par0265	Amen.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0286par0266	But you guys need to realize how important this is. I mean, it's not just a situation on paper. We need to think of them with our conscience, understand them with our minds, understand them, explain them, find a cure.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0289par0267	That's the judge's decision.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0286par0268	Look, in recent years, we've come about a law that's recently been passed, and we've made an emergency arrangement here. We have to make the same arrangements about our own friends. Indeed, this will satisfy our consciences, and this is the right course. That's why we all have to do this together. Tomorrow, our children must not answer to us, none of us. We all have our consciences, we all have our minds, we all have to understand. That's what I'm saying when I say it, of course I'm bored. I know you're bored, and I know you're upset, but I can't believe that an authority, an authority that we don't know, has come and taken over the sovereignty of this House, so this nation that's written here, has taken over its sovereignty from somewhere. You guys need to see it, understand it.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0290par0270	They call it the Bureaucracy, they work under the bureaucracy.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0291par0271	Would it be better if any other authority were to shut down the House?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0290par0272	They work for the Bureau.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0292par0273	No, of course we don't approve of that either. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0293par0276	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Emin Haluk Ayhan. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0294par0280	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express the views of the Nationalist Movement Party on the Law Proposal of the Executive Service of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, number 83 in session. I hereby salute your high council. For the concept of independence of legislation, which is a natural consequence of the separation of forces from the fundamental principles of modern democracies, parliament must be independent of its self-sustaining unit, it must be independent of its executive or other adult intervention. It is possible to ensure the independence of the law with administrative independence of the legislature. However, the amendments to Article 2/11/2011 and to Article 666 of the Financial Rights of Public Servants under some Law and Law Act are being made to disappear, as well as by the intervention of the legislature's executive body. Thus, the concept of the independence of the law is sadly damaged within the framework of the Law. From the past to the present, this great Parliament, where national wills have been fulfilled and the public demands have been expressed, has, of its own free will, organized the administrative organization from the past to the present. However, this tradition, which allows the rule of law and the legislative body to continue as an independent institution, is being eliminated. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, it may be a little more difficult to make a very technical speech at this hour of the night because of the fatigue, but I would like to point out that these personnel are involved in the transitional provisions, the temporary clauses. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, when certain proposals are discussed, or in the press, when it's in public, there's a code for that bill or the proposal, it's called a name. What is it? Torba (, "Torba"), "Torba" (, "Torba") or "Torba" (, "Torba") or "Torba" (, "Torba") or "Big Bag" (, "Bedelli"). This is truly upsetting for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; I regret to say it, and I really am bored to say it. Now, this MP has given up. Another MP had to resign from the commission for similar reasons of power. These have been seen in public as not-so-good indicators for the future reminiscent of this bill. An experienced staff member of the Day Council told me that his retirement had already been completed. Do you know how he really interpreted the developments in this proposal, valued lawmakers? It's like a camera joke, he said. Now, look, we're working in this Parliament, we're doing symposium, we're developing a project with the OECD to improve the infrastructure of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Lawmakers from each party are on this project as consultants. Another is that we organise a symposium as the Law Production Symposium. The way this works, it's all talked about, but I see that it would be wrong if I said maybe one letter from all the work that's been done, and it would be wrong if I said it was written, but maybe the word was taken by the letter, but I'd like to express it in a manner of regret that nothing was put down, and it wasn't used. It's a real shame about all this work. Now, dear lawmakers, what did you really have to do with it? You should've taken advantage of it. You're actually buttoning up the wrong place. What is it? Let me make this very clear: the Constitution is being made, and the Civil Code will follow, and what about the Agency's Law? It's going to be a parallel arrangement. Now, you're trying to do the opposite. Essentially, the law of authority, which is based on the legal framework under the Law of 666, is a problem. The president was transferred abroad without seeing the bill, saying he had a signature. The President is not in Turkey. I'm being very clear. What did the Vice President do when he wasn't appointed by the President when he didn't have the authority? He must have written a second article. He doesn't have the authority. The president has been called abroad. Although the president was called in, the first two articles have been shown interest, the first two articles have no validity, and as far as he's concerned, it's just a one-hour postponement of the meeting. The article they're interested in is also invalid. As two wrongs don't make a right, the third one associated with it is to make a law on a legally invalid text. What are we building on so many wrongs? Is this law going to help while you're preparing an offer? He'll help you prepare a motion? What will this offer solve while you help the citizen, while they solve his problems? Now, will Congress help people in their service? You're walking through the halls of parliament these days, it's not just a question of wages, it's obvious and clear that there are motions and regulations that are intended for bureaucrats close to the AKP. Congressmans, we're all monitoring the negotiations together. Please accept it as a political courtesy, and I just told him: If the commissioner touches his concerned shoulder, we agree. If he touches his knee, we don't agree.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0295par0291	Where did you see it? How could you see it?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0294par0292	I've seen it, Congressman. I took it as a courtesy to ask you to accept it as a political favor. It takes some time for you to understand, you understand. Now, but I'm giving you credit. I don't know where he'll touch you when he says it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, the impression that I've made today, many arrangements, is one individual, as I've just expressed. The government is here, and the Minister is sitting there and answering questions about the Parliament, even though he is not in charge, and I will answer them in writing, he says. It's not the Minister's jurisdiction, it's not his job, it's the Minister's job, and you're making it difficult, while he's a working minister who knows his field. Now, is it possible that so much wrong could be true? The minister's in a real tough spot. Now, you say the Ministry of Economics, with the decree of this Law, there's no planning in it. What's not in it, the law of authority? What else isn't in it? No treasure. It's something else: what are you putting in with foreign capital? You put the incentive in, it becomes the Ministry of Economics of Foreign Trade. Believe me, the ministers are laughing too. You're combining Customs with Internal Trade. There's no place in the world where there's so many freaks. I'd like the job to be serious, to benefit from it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish it were a means of bringing good things to our nation, even though I don't believe it. My respects to all of you. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0296par0301	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, İstanbul MP Sırrıyya Önder.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0297par0303	Mr. President, dear members, first of all, the identity of a film worker with treachery means that he's only very successful in his role, very successful in his art. While the place is full of real traitors, I begin by condemning the injustice done to Nuri Alcho. [[Let's hear it for BDP and CHP]] There are friends out there who are laughing and the opposition is getting it all wrong, the issue of cutting off their television broadcasts. I don't think power is too frightened by the precious ideas and objections of the opposition. It seems to me that it's a greater factor to stop a few members from being seen by all the people who are laughing at what's not going to happen, laughing at what's going to happen, and having a poor reaction to intelligence and humor. [[Let's hear it for BDP and CHP]] They told you in Red Jack, if you don't have anything else in your pocket, don't talk like that, then you'll be embarrassed. There are deputies who don't listen to this, and I think everyone should talk about it as much as they do in their saddlebags, and that's a great benefit, I say it in brotherly terms. I'll tell you a real backstabbing story. Before we start with that, the Secretary General has a statement to the staff about this tunnel, the ban on lobbying, and I'm going to start by saying that as a member of this Assembly, I reject document 2011/24, because it's not right to isolate the MPs from the public, to isolate them from the staff, let them be a little more private. When you're so isolated, that's how the reactions are unprofitable. I was going to say the true treachery story, which marked the last 15 to 20 years of this country: the imperialist, capitalist system said: "You are in distress, you have what you have, you have what you don't have. This is how you get rid of what you have. And the most liberal country, even the country in which the flagship is in America, even when the government is above 30 percent of the public's weight, the public cannot be allowed in this country by 19 percent, and all the right powers that have come to meet one of the other. (Applause) They dropped it to 19 percent. The question of what to do with the people who work here has arisen after you've withdrawn the public so much from life. Cruelty is the name of the answer. Everyone forgets, when you say "4/C" it sounds like an elementary school class, 4/C isn't. It's a name given to workers who are left out after you've taken pride, honor, dignity, total wealth that this country has brought to this day. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mayor. There used to be a labor market -- you don't know, it doesn't even have a market -- where workers would be taken, given the need, they'd be taken, unsecured, they'd be run by a certain bargain. No guarantees, no guarantees if anything happens to him, whether he'll take it or not. 4/C is the name of a more brutal practice than that labor market. Who's the client? The system, the state, is the right-wing power to take away our last 30 years. Workers of 4/C who don't understand the rights and the sanctity of the work, who don't remember that it'll be an interrogation day. What do you know about the people of 4/C? Look, you're talking about the random situation of the 4/C/C staff. It's not a camel or a bird, it's not a worker because it has no union rights. Even the Prime Minister didn't understand that. When Mustafa Kumlu returned to Mustafa Kumlu and asked them if they could not receive severance pay, 4/C had already been legalized in this country. Twenty-seven thousand monopoly workers, that would be 570,000 families in this country, a family of 570,000 people, tobacco. You, on your own land, cast aside all the sanctity, nationalism, and replied to the decision of the American tyrant of what is to be planted on your own land. After that, you have to think about the number of holy, the number of nationalism. I'm not doing demagoji here, it's not political, I'm just telling you what's going on. When the Prime Minister of this country -- God bless him, heal him quickly -- asked in public that he couldn't receive severance pay, in front of the cameras -- he was legalized 4/C. They acted against the court's window, and were accused of treason. It was such a cold winter, the poor from Ankara took care of them. Now, here's...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0298par0315	CHP...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0297par0316	That's when the CHP met the gas bomb, yes.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0299par0318	Let the CHP answer to Izmir.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0297par0319	Now, dear friends, this legal arrangement is being made here. 4/C can't be arranged because in these last two years, this monopoly worker has been sold out as a traitor. If a healing is made to 4/C) now, what sin was there for them? Is the government a fraud? He does, he does. Why? Eleven months, ten months, he lays off for two months after that so he doesn't get a right, and then there's no guarantee if he'll get it back. Where's the courage, where's the respect for human dignity, where's the respect for work, one of you tell us, and we'll get a night's sleep. I don't have any of these. Here, a new adaptation of this system will be treated as torment to all the remaining members of this House, other than the legislator, is his name. What I don't understand is that these kinds of laws are usually made when governments are gone. I don't understand why the government has brought this up in the first place, even though it seems to be in a bad mood. Congressmans, 14 4/C employees committed suicide. Don't laugh, suicide is a very hard job, a job when you're desperate. Think about what you're gonna do when you can't complete your children, his livelihood, his alimony, or your own, when you can't win, and maybe you'll understand a little bit about those 14 workers who committed suicide in 4/C. And God needs to give you a cure, so you'll understand a lot. I end my words by saluting the 14 workers who ended their lives in the presence of those brave, honorable monopoly workers. I suggest you consult your conscience once again. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0300par0326	Thank you, Mr. Commander. Here you go, Mr. Yakut.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0301par0328	I'd like to make a brief statement, Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank Mr. Commander. However, after the draft of this proposal, a new civil servant to Turkey's Grand National Assembly will receive about 1,400 euros from the public staff selection examination channel, while a member of the 4/C will now receive about $2,000. For your information.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0302par0331	Is there a guarantee, Mr. President?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0303par0332	Moving on to QA. Mr. Aslanoglu, come in.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0304par0334	Mr. President, Mr. Commander told me, and so did I by chance. A person gets sick. These staff are out eating their meals, going to the other mess hall. In the cold of that winter, don't pass through these people, go over them, don't pass through them. It's a human shame! Humanity is a disgrace! We don't mind any of our friends passing by. We don't bother any of our friends who work here, we don't mind their passing through the tunnel. They're human beings, they're human beings. It's an honor to walk with them, Mr. President. It's a shame!
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0303par0336	The talks on chapter three are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the third section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. I submit the temporary article 1 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in the interim article 2; I'll have it read and processed: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 83 S. We would like to propose and submit to the article "instructions of those who are in charge of special titles in the General Secretariat of the TBMM as part of the fourth article of the Numbered Law Proposal and to add the following joke to the article as it comes into effect. Mehmet Mush Osman of Nurettin Canikli Look at your love Zeynep Karahan Good Bulent Turan Fatih Şahin According to Article 29's 9th joke of Article 29, the contract fee they received in the last month concerning their former staff as of the date appointed to other public institutions and institutions, the monthly, additional indicators, bonus (clear amount hit a month), all kinds of hikes and compensations, representation compensation, additional compensation, additional payments, additional payment and other rights amount of income (which are based on a fixed value), the new contract fee, the bonus, the bonus, the compensation, the compensation, the compensation, the compensation, and the sum of each other's compensations, and the sum of any other rights they have been paid under any other name, and the sum of any other rights they have been paid, and the same amount of any other fines, and the amount of compensations they have been paid, and the same amount has been paid, and the same amount of the same amount is kept, and the same amount, and the same amount of the same amount of the same amount is kept, and the same amount is kept, and the same amount of the same amount of the same amount of the same amount, and the same amount of the same amount of the same amount in the same amount of the same amount. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0305par0348	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0303par0349	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0306par0350	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0303par0351	I'm reading the reason: In accordance with Article 29's ninth joke, it is intended that the personnel assigned to other public institutions and institutions be protected by compensation for their fiscal rights and appointed to law-enforcement staffs of those who are in expert positions at the Grand Secretary General of the TBMM at the time when this law is in effect. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit to your votes the interim clause 2 ▪ those who accept... Those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the temporary article 3: I'll have it read and processed: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 83 Orders of Turkey's Grand National Assembly Executive Service Act Proposal is temporary 3. Article 1, 2. And 3. We propose and supply to change the four-part statement in their joke to six-tenths. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu İhsan Özkes Prof. Dr. ♪ Good morning to you ♪ Ali Riza Özturk Bkent Kuşoğlu Süleyman Çelebi Haluk Ahmet Silver Osman Aydın Kazim Kurt Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0307par0368	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0303par0369	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0308par0370	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0303par0371	I'm reading the reason: With this arrangement, the deadlines for retirement are extended. It aims to enable more personnel to benefit from retirement than encouragement. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. I submit to your votes the temporary article 3, those in favor of... Those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the temporary article 4, I'll have it read and processed: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Interim 4 of the current Law Proposal. We submit and propose that the following joke be added to the clause. According to the results of norm staff implementation, the staff assigned to the administrative body cannot be sent to other public institutions or institutions, as well as to those who have taken the examinations of the Executive Agency and have been deemed successful in the examinations under the rules of promotion. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Özgür Special Kadir Gökmen Öğün İhsan Özkes Gürkut Acar Mahmut Tanal Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0309par0387	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0303par0388	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0310par0389	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0303par0390	Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0311par0391	Eskişehir MP Kazim Kurt...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0303par0392	Mr. Wolf, come in.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0312par0393	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I'll begin by saying good evening. After so many laws were passed, we were very pleased when we received an offer of law, but when we listened to its justification and presentation, we were more pleased to say that the September 12th oppressive regime had prepared this proposal to change its laws. But there was a conclusion that we had never discussed in a democratic environment. In both the Commission and the General Assembly, the constructive and logical remarks of the opposition were not taken into consideration.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0313par0395	We don't accept it, it's in the commission.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0312par0396	For one thing, at many points we agreed on in the Commission, different motions came in here, the provisions agreed upon by the Commission have been changed. September 12, 1980, Turkey closed down all political parties. With this proposal, we have banned the release of the meetings of political party groups by changing the General Assembly in Article 15 of this proposal. Thus, this agreement led to a period of distress for the members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly before it took place in a democratic environment. For one thing, if there is any serious incentive for retirement, the rights of our friends would have to be handed over. It would be a reasonable and appropriate arrangement for Turkey of 2012 to bring an arrangement that would reflect on their pensions as they retire at least, for those of whom we have never known the right to be union and organisation, but this has not been done. Thus, as the President has just stated, none of the International Labour Organization contracts, which have become internal law provisions under Article 90 of the Constitution, have been applied under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which has been persistently resisted. No organization, no union, no collective contract. In our referendum on September 12, 2010, when we were moving to advanced democracy, we cut them off and shaved them, with the Law of the Great National Assembly of Turkey, one by one, when we promised to give them all to our employees and the Turkish people. Thus, it was not set in motion to protect the rights of our friends. At least now, by arranging these four months, six months, you will consider a new offer and prevent them from losing their rights. Turkey's Grand National Assembly will not lose anything if it organises it. But why? My president is uncomfortable, too, but we had a good chance to arrange these things without preventing any of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's work from being out of control and out of the public eye, unfortunately, that chance has been missed. I think you should consider why this chance has been missed. Please, let's have a little more freedom, a little more democratism, a little bit more positive approaches while we do legislature activities in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. On this occasion, I extend my regards to all arrested MPs, especially Balbay, who have knocked down his thousandth day today. I bid you good night.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0314par0400	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary article 4, those in favor of... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes the temporary item 5, those in favor of... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes the temporary article 6, those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions in the temporary article 7. I'll read it according to the order of arrival and process the most irregular one. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 83 S. We propose and propose that the temporary 7th amendment of the Numbered Law Proposal be changed in the following way. Nurettin Canikli Mahir Ünal Mehmet Erdoğan Ahmet Aydın Yunus Kılıç Zeynep Karahan Nice "Current Article 7- (1) At the time when this law is adopted, the General Secretary General's Office of TBMM Laws and Decisions may be appointed as Assistant Secretary General for Laws and Decisions, Budget and Research Centre Directors, who served as assistant managers or managers of the terms laid out in Article 2 or who carried out the following terms in Article 5 of Article 2. (2) At the time of the implementation of this Law and Decisions, those who serve as vice principal or vice principal at Budget and Research Centre Directors can be appointed as vice presidents and vice presidents of the relevant presidential and vice presidents of the same clause, regardless of the conditions mentioned in Article 5 of Article 29. Now I'm going to read and process the most inoppressive motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 7 of the Interim Law of the Executive Service Act, which is based on Turkey's 2/92, be changed in the following way. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kazim Kurt Prof. Dr. ♪ Good morning to you ♪ Ali Riza Özturk Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam Süleyman Çelebi Osman Aydın Haluk Ahmet Silver The Deputy Secretary General for Law and Control Services is appointed before the implementation of this law, including the Vice Secretary General for Law Services, Head of Laws and Decisions, Laws and Decisions, Laws and Decisions, Budget, Tutorak and Research Centre Directorships, assistant manager or manager of the 29th Article of the Law (2). (2) Presidents and vice presidents of Laws and Decisions, Budget and Research Services; and prior to the implementation of this Law shall be appointed among those who serve as vice principals or vice principals of the Budget and Research Centre Offices, or as legislators of the 29th article of the Law (3). (3) The vice president and vice presidents of the office of the Editor-in-Chief of the Constitutional Board are appointed among those who have served as managers or assistant managers or stenographers before the implementation of this Law. (4) Vice President and Vice Presidents of the Library and Archive Services are appointed among those who prior to the execution of this Law, under the conditions of Article 29 of this Law, which are included in Article 3 of the Article 29 of this Law with the assistant director or director of the Library Documentation and Translation Directorate. Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0315par0429	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0314par0430	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0316par0431	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0317par0432	Motive...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0314par0433	Motive... Under Article 29 of the proposal, Article 5 and Article 7 of the Proposal, which is held without consideration for the other provisions and inconspicuous statements, shall be revised in parallel with Article 29 which is more understandable, practical, preventing injustices. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 83 S. We propose and propose that the temporary 7th amendment of the Numbered Law Proposal be changed in the following way. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends "Current Article 7- (1) At the time when this law is adopted, the General Secretary General's Office of TBMM Laws and Decisions may be appointed as Assistant Secretary General for Laws and Decisions, Budget and Research Centre Directors, who served as assistant managers or managers of the terms laid out in Article 2 or who carried out the following terms in Article 5 of Article 2. (2) At the time of the implementation of this Law and Decisions, those who serve as vice principal or vice principal at Budget and Research Centre Directors can be appointed as vice president and vice president of the relevant presidential and vice president of the same clause, regardless of the conditions stated in Article 5 of Article 29." Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0318par0444	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0314par0445	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0319par0446	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0314par0447	Read the reason. The transition resolution for the application is foreseen. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit to your votes the interim clause seven: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in the interim article 8, I read them in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the third joke of the interim 8th article of the current 83-order Law Proposal should be changed in the following way. Nevzat Korkmaz Mustafa Kalaycı Ali Öz "The staff appointed under this clause will continue to receive contract fees, monthly, additional indicators, bonuses, any increase in compensation and compensations, representation compensation, duty compensation, additional service compensation, additional payment, overtime, and any increase in payments under such names." Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A Temporarily 8 of the Law on the Executive Service of the 83-Setment Turkish Parliamentary Assembly of the National Assembly of Turkey. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ayadın Musa Çam Ali Riza Özturk Kadir Öğüt Süleyman Çelebi Bulent Kuşoğlu Kazim Kurt Haluk Ahmet Silver Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0320par0472	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0314par0473	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0321par0474	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0322par0475	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0314par0476	Here you go, Mr. Reminder.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0323par0477	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, in 1992, the United Nations declared December 3rd as International Day of the disabled. The United Nations Commission for Human Rights then demanded the recognition of the day in order to bring the disabled into society and ensure full and equal human rights. In Turkey, 12.29 per cent of the population, 8.5 million people are disabled. Given these figures, it is impossible to ignore the problems of the disabled. When researching the reasons for the disabled, the vast majority of them seem to be avoidable and preventable. The disabled may experience feelings of inadequacy, inadequacy, insecurity, anxiety, fear, despair, especially because of the negative attitudes of society against them. Instead of showing compassion for disabled citizens in this sense, institutional services should be based on development. Public, private sector and voluntary NGOs serving disabled persons should be focused on strengthening. The problems of disabled people are not only their own, but the common problem of their families, environments, society, and all human beings. It is possible for disabled people to live normally only if social sensitivity occurs. Many documents, particularly the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, address the issue of disability as a fundamental human rights problem. In this context, I celebrate the day of our disabled and invite everyone to be more sensitive so that their problems can be resolved as soon as possible. It must not be forgotten that every healthy person is potentially disabled. Mr. President, members of parliament, 51 people work as disabled when we have 5,521 personnel in our parliament. In fact, according to normal legislation, there should be 165 people, and since exceptions have been implemented, this applies to 51 people. Come on, let's make a gesture this week as Congress, and instead of this 165, let's raise a higher rate of law and offer a gesture to the disabled. By the way, Professor Server Tanilli, you know, our intellectual, we lost him, he has a funeral tomorrow. I bow before him with respect. He's been in a wheelchair for many years as a handicap. He hasn't held anything down from the waist down with a terror bullet since 78. And I'd like to say that I bow before him once again. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I ask you again and again to remember the thousandth day of Balbay, which now turns into a thousand and one night tales. The presence of Balbay would add strength to this assembly, and the presence of Haberal would add strength to it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0324par0488	Thank you, Mr. Öpün. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who do not... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the third joke of the interim 8th article of the current 83-order Law Proposal should be changed in the following way. Mehmet Shandır (Mersin) and his friends "The staff appointed under this clause will continue to receive contract fees, monthly, additional indicators, bonuses, any increase in compensation and compensations, representation compensation, duty compensation, additional service compensation, additional payment, overtime, and any increase in payments under such names." Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0325par0496	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0324par0497	President?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0326par0498	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0324par0499	I'm reading the reason: The proposal was intended to change the joke in order to protect the financial and social rights of the staff during the transfer of the health department and health staff in the chief office to the Ministry of Health. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit to your votes the interim article 8: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are four motions in the interim article 9. I have them read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 83 S. We propose and propose that the following sentence be added at the end of Article 9 of the Numbered Law Proposal. Nurettin Canikli Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı "These are taken into account the temporary 14th Article of the Code of Law 375 and shall be used under the same procedures and grounds of all financial and social rights and assistance of staff assigned to the same or precedentd staff." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to Article 4 (C) of Law 657 in Article 9 of the Interim National Assembly of Turkey, we propose and propose that temporary staff assigned from other institutions be appointed to the Executive Agency's staff under the conditions of the examination. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu İhsan Özkes Prof. Dr. ♪ Good morning to you ♪ Ali Riza Özturk Kazim Kurt Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Pine Haluk Ahmet Silver Haluk Coach Nurettin Demir Osman Aydın Süleyman Çelebi Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the interim 9th amendment of Law Proposal 83 be changed in the following manner. Mustafa Kalaycı Oktay Vural Emin Haluk Ayhan "As part of Article 9-Administration Act 14/7/1965 and Article 4 (C) of State Officers Act 657 (C), the current temporary staff is appointed to officers in accordance with their status within a month of the date when this law is in effect." Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of the Interim 9th Amendment to the current 83 Orders of the Law Proposal in the following way. The Hasip Tiger Secret is the Leader's Secret, Sakık 'Current Article 9 - (1) At the time this Law is in effect, those employed according to Article 4 (C) of Article 657 under the General Secretariat of TBM are considered to be appointed to the officers of the general administrative services class in accordance with its exceptions, no matter what they do.' Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0327par0540	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0324par0541	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0328par0542	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0324par0543	Mr. Sakık, come in.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0329par0544	Mr. President, dear friends, hello again late at night. Now, when I brought up something earlier, our friend, who was on duty at the time, came to our group and told us, sir, that our group had requests from time to time. Now, for example, I'll explain: 144 transfers and an open transfer. There's not a single demand from our group. A total of 585, which means that within two years, the House was given temporary, you know, outside, contract personnel. We've got three drivers in our group. He presents it as a blessing, and he comes to our group, sir, and they say so, and they take it. Now, this is no one's father's farm. So, when you give it to the other groups, either way, you give it to the BDP group. I wouldn't really want to rub it in the face of a sinner -- so I know a lot of things -- so you're going to set up laws for yourself, design everything in your own way, but when there's a little thing going on with other groups, you're going to tear up the apocalypse. Look, now, it's about the 4/C people, sir, they're said to have been paid nearly 2 billion dollars. So, these people are going to work here for 20 years, they're going to work under these conditions, but if a Speaker does two years, what rights will he have to live on? He's gonna be a middleman, he's gonna have gas, he's gonna have protection, he's gonna be under his kids, and right now, look, the pension of retired lawmakers now, our friends who are lawmakers, they get a salary of 3 billion, or something like 3 billion, but these Speakers get $9-10 billion. When the Speakers take office, they have no duty to secure their positions alone. And you won't be uncomfortable when we say that. If you're eating something illegal, then his name is Haram, and now, he comes back here, sir, and he's like, "I don't know, 4/C." I swear, it's a policy against the 4/C people. Yeah, they're fine compared to minimum wage, but they're doing the same job, they're doing the same job, they're doing the same job, they're doing the same job, they're doing the same job in the gym, they're serving the same service, they're doing the same service, they're doing the same job, they're doing the same job, they're doing the same job, they're doing the same job in the gym, they're doing the same job, they're doing the same job, they're doing the same job, they're doing the same job, they're doing the same job, they're doing the same job, they're doing the same job, they're doing the same job, they're doing the same job, and they're doing the same job for 2 billion, Now, if this House doesn't uphold law and justice within itself, when will it expect justice? Now, they call it the divan, there's a Court in shape, so we're going. Can you tell us how many of our friends from the Court are here, from the past to the present, how many of you and some of us have spoken and decided on the Court? No. There's a Court in shape. Then eliminate the Court. So let's end these forms, say: "In this business, bureaucracy and the Speaker of Parliament are effective." So what's to run the Court in shape? Members of the Council. Who? Parliamentary executives, they're just here to handle the situation, they've got nothing else to handle. I'm in charge of health, for God's sake, I've never signed a single file, and my other friends are in the same position, and now we're completely out of commission. Well, if we don't have a mission, then let's get this into the law. So that's where the diva is, in the name of God, whatever the position of the workers from 4/C. I wish you'd included the Court, but it's only the bureaucracy and the Speaker. Because the bureaucracy has become so powerful, I can't say they've listened to the Court on many matters. I know that, again, not everyone, not everyone, not us, not at this hour, is going to be able to accept a amendment proposal, especially from us, with your votes, but a little bit of a conscience, so we invite you to a little bit of a conscience about these workers. Make a gesture at this time of night, and I'd appreciate it if you'd raise your hand against these victims to your conscience and one hand in the air. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0330par0551	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the interim 9th amendment of Law Proposal 83 be changed in the following manner. Mehmet Shandır (Mersin) and his friends "As part of Article 9-Administration Act 14/7/1965 and Article 4 (C) of State Officers Act 657 (C), the current temporary staff is appointed to officers in accordance with their status within a month of the date when this law is in effect." Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0331par0559	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0330par0560	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0332par0561	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0333par0562	Reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0330par0563	I'm reading the reason: The 4th Article of Law No. 657, titled "Temporary personnel" (C), states that there is less than a year's or seasonal service, based on the views of the Ministry of State Staff and the Ministry of Finance, are those of whom the Council of Ministers has decided to work under contract and in accordance with the terms of wages and customs. It's called. The provision of Article 4/C, which envisions temporary employment for less than a year or for seasonal services, is used against its purpose and causes harm. Because the services that employ staff at 4/C status are services that offer continuity, not less than a year or seasonal services. The fact is that 4/C has been working for years, not temporary. Therefore, the current practice is contrary to the rhetoric and spirit of the law. In addition, employees who work at this status are victims of employment without the financial and social rights of their staffed counterparts, who are doing the same job, who are doing the same service. In addition to doing the same work as the staff employed in different positions of the Law Proposal, it is also necessary for TBM to set an example for the public institutions of 4/C staff and subcontracted subcontract staff, in order to repair the negatives such as having different rights to work, not being fit in the rights. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to Article 4 (C) of Law 657 in the interim Article 9 of the Law under the Supreme National Assembly of Turkey, we propose and recommend that the temporary staff assigned from other institutions be appointed to the Executive Agency in order to be successful in the examinations under the conditions specified by the interim staff who have been appointed from other institutions. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0334par0576	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0330par0577	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0335par0578	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0336par0579	Muğla MP Nurettin Demir will speak, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0330par0580	Mr. Nurettin Demir. Here you go, Mr. Iron.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0337par0583	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you in the morning. Today, you know, the first hours of day 1,001. I hope all eight of our congressman friends will be here soon, and we'll all continue to stay up all night. And it's World AIDS Day. The number of AIDS users in both the world and our country is increasing in infectious diseases. I hope to have a less morbid, healthier year from New Year's to come. Besides, you know, it's handicapped week. I hope our Speaker will make a great effort in this matter, hoping that the problems of our disabled citizens will be resolved, that the number of disabled workers in our parliament will increase after this law. Congressmans, you know, the 4/C issue is really a great deal of suffering and shame in the 21st century of our country. I'd like to give you a few examples. It may seem a little sympathetic when we look at it as an equal salary, but the truth isn't. Socially, in terms of rights, the 4/C people are suffering a lot, they have fears of the future, they have mobbing at work, they have rights removed, they're running for hours. Behold, there are workers working in Muğlahah, and in Kavabarere, and in the mine workers, eighteen hours, and twenty hours. In hospitals, they're running for hours, 12 hours, 16 hours... and they can't even make a sound in college. They can't object to their superiors, their handlers, their handlers, their hires, or when they're exposed to their insults because they're immediately thrown out. It's a human shame. I see workers everywhere I go in particular about 4/C, they're very broken, they're very low. Other than that -- the current government -- is not employed, especially under intense pressure from the government, without membership in the party or a month into the party, without investing two months in it. It's a real shame. It's a great deal of trouble.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0338par0591	Where the hell is he? It's all wrong!
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0339par0592	Hut, hut! Name it, where is it, document it?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0337par0593	They don't get paid for months at a time.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0340par0594	Where, who can't?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0337par0595	In fact, many of the forest workers don't get their real rights. The social security of the 4/C is the work that will happen if the right to organize is not provided. I, of course, don't call it a party, they know themselves. Especially at this hour, I don't want to go into polymia. Other than that...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0341par0597	We get it, we get it, we get it, it's CHP!
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0337par0598	Bravo! You're very clever, congratulations! Sir, there are about 1,500 of us in our Parliament. Let's put these 4/C people in their rightful position to eliminate the inequality of this labor exploitation in Turkey. I pay my respects. Good morning, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0342par0602	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 83 S. We propose and propose that the following sentence be added at the end of Article 9 of the Numbered Law Proposal. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends "These are taken into account the temporary 14th Article of the Code of Law 375 and shall be used under the same procedures and grounds of all financial and social rights and assistance of staff assigned to the same or precedentd staff." Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0343par0610	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0342par0611	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0344par0612	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0345par0613	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0342par0614	Read the reason. The test also aims to implement the existing legislation provisions on existing 4/C personnel who will be appointed to the Executive Agency for the presidency of TBMM. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes the interim clause 9/ within the accepted framework of the motion: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the Interim Article 10 I'm going to read it and process it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 83 S. We propose and propose that the temporary 10th amendment of the Numbered Law Proposal be changed in the following way. Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ahmet Aydın Mahir Ünal Nurettin Canikli A. Çazatai Sword "As long as they are employed at TBMM General Secretary-General or Executive Agency, the provisions of the financial and social rights legislation on financial and social rights are carried out before 2/11/2011, including personnel employed by the Ministry of Interior (including staff assigned by the Ministry of Internal Affairs). For those of you who are under this clause, the provisions of the legislation shall be passed in accordance with Article 14 of Article 375. (2) In accordance with the laws imposed by the TBM General Secretary-General to qualify for the stenography course, Article 14 of Article 375 shall be applied in accordance with the laws of those who continue the course, and shall be appointed to the staff of stenographers, and shall be appointed as assistant specialists in accordance with the legislation in the process of the adoption of this law, which began before the time it entered into effect. (3) At the time of the implementation of this Law, the appointment of those in the staff of the TBMM General Secretary General of Staff to qualified examinations and legislative expertise staffs and the adoption process, which began prior to the time when this law entered into effect, are concluded according to the following legislation provisions prior to the time it took effect. (4) Article 12 of Law 2919 and Article 2 of Article 1 of Article 2 and Article 2 of Article 2 of Article 2 of the Law shall continue to be implemented until Article 30 of the Law is enforced. From those who were employed in the Grand Secretary General of the TBM at the time of the execution of this law, the work of those who would be employed under Article 30 of the Law will continue at the TBMM until Article 30 is in effect. However, the implementation of Article 2919 of Article 12 of Law No. 2919 shall continue until the end of the 24th Legislature," he added. Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0346par0631	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0342par0632	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0347par0633	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0348par0634	Motive...
tbmm-2011-11-30sit06spe0342par0635	Read the reason. The amendments to public personnel system have been made by the provisions made by KHK No. 666 and SEC 375, aimed at resolving any hesitations at the point of protecting the rights of current personnel. With this regulation, the provisions concerning the financial and social rights of staff in the Executive Service's positions will be imposed on the TBMM General Secretary-General or Executive Service positions before 15/1/2012, as long as they are employed in parallel with the KHK, before 2/11/2011/2012 (including this date) and the new legislation on the financial and social rights of the staff (opentane or transplant) will be imposed on the Turkish General Secretary-General's office or positions (e.g. 15/1/2012). On the other hand, the amendments to the implementation of old legislation provisions in order to ensure that there is no difference in application and fiscal and social rights among them are intended to be appointed as assistants to law enforcement, as a result of the expert's assistant examination, which has begun, as well as amendments to the process of being appointed as an expert in law enforcement, which is dated 19/11/2011 and published in the Official Journal 28117. Since the system for contractual and temporary employment of staff has changed and that this system could produce problems with the publication of this Law, it is intended that the staff working under contract and temporary mandates be employed in accordance with some of the older legislation provisions, based on the provisions of Law 2919. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit to your votes the temporary clause 10, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0342par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 26th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 83. The commission is here. The Presidential Court representative is here. There's a motion on the temporary 11th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 83 S's in sight. We propose and propose that the temporary Article 11 of the Numbered Law Proposal be changed in the following way. Ahmet Aydın Mahir Ünal Ayşenur Bahçapılı Tülay Kaynarca Zeynep Karahan Good Osman Your Love Look FROM personnel assigned to the TBM General Secretariat at the time of the adoption of this Law, they can continue their duties in accordance with Article 5 of Article 30's fifth joke, in accordance with which they will be employed within the framework of the provisions in which a new mandate is not approved. Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0349par0014	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0342par0015	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0350par0016	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0342par0017	I'm reading the reason: This clause is being rearranged because of the matter of temporary deployment of temporary personnel and the payments to pay for them in other substances. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit to your votes the temporary clause 11, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary article 12, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new interim clause violation. It is the fourth clause of Article 87 of the Civil Code, which requires that a clause of the bill or proposal, which is not included in the commission text, but is very closely related to the bill or proposal, be changed, and will be held as a new clause on the proposals which the commission has already attended. According to Article 91, the meeting of the Civil Code as a new clause can be discussed on the motions the commission has already attended, and a number of motions may be submitted in this article. So I'll have the motion read and ask the commission. If the commission joins the motion with the majority of the 21 members, I will open the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following interim clause be added to the proposal of the Executive Service Act, which is held at 83 Rows of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ajan Ayadın Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam Süleyman Çelebi Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu Interim Article 13- (1) temps who work for the TBMM staff are assigned to the TBMM Executive Service staff to fit their position without further processing. In addition, staff employed at the TBMM as a temporary job from other public institutions and organisations are appointed to the appropriate staff of the TBM Executive Service. (2) After the adoption of this Law, there is no outside service. Mr. Commission, do you have a majority?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0351par0035	We can't participate because we're not the majority, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0352par0036	Invite him, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0351par0037	Commissioners, please. Of course, let's call our fellow commissioners.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0352par0038	Yes, call him, invite him.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0351par0039	Mr. President, as it turns out, we only have two members. So I think we should move on.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0352par0040	I want to sit down.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0353par0041	Have a seat.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0354par0043	Mr. Mevlüt, at this hour, for God's sake!
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0352par0044	Invite him.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0355par0045	Mr. President, I called them, so they're not coming.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0352par0046	Invite him.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0355par0047	I invited him, Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0356par0048	He called, he called.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0355par0049	I did, sir. No one's coming.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0356par0050	He called, I heard, he called.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0355par0051	Mr. President confirms it. I did, but no one's coming.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0357par0052	Let them be processed for preventing the House from working. We demand that our non-committee friends be processed because they've prevented the House from working.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0356par0053	Without a majority, I'm dismissing the motion. There's a motion in Article 43 that I'll read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 83 S. We propose and propose that Article 43 of the Numbered Law Proposal be changed in the following way. Nurettin Canikli Mahir Ünal Ahmet Aydın Çelebi Çelebi Osman Love Look Mehmet Doğan Kabbat ▪ Article 43 ▪ This Law; A) Article 30 on 15/1/2012, B) other provisions, The publication takes effect in its history. Is the commission in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0358par0066	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0356par0067	Is the presidency in?
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0359par0068	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0356par0069	I'm reading the reason: Since a new system of personnel for political party groups and lawmakers is adopted, it aims to give them the time needed to adapt and implement the system. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit to your votes Article 43: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 44 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In order to show the color of the game, according to the Civil Charter 86, it is against İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0360par0076	Mr. President, since the Commissioners aren't here, I'm protesting them and I'm not talking!
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0356par0078	Before we take a vote, the Commission has a motion to make amends. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0361par0080	In accordance with Article 85 of the Civil Code, we have received a request to say that there has been a financial error. In accordance with this adopted motion, we would like to show you the necessary effort for the new (e) sentence added to the first joke of Article 14 (e) to be added at the end of the sentence, and to show your appreciation for adding the expression to the text, and for adding it to the last sentence of Article 30, which has been changed according to the motion adopted.
tbmm-2011-11-30sit07spe0356par0082	The votes of the substances in the third section are complete. The proposal is all open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to request that members who can't get into the system ask the technical staff for help, but who can't get into the system, to deliver the ballots to the presidency within three minutes scheduled for the vote. Also, if there are those who will vote as acting ministers, I request that they vote to which minister, in the three-minute period envisioned for the vote, which includes the color of the game and the name and the signature of its vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman Mr. Cemil Cicek and his MPs Kayseri MP Mr. Sadiq Yakut and Kahramanmarash MP Mehmet Sütın take an open vote as a result of the Proposal of the Law on the Executive Service of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: ▪ Number of votes used : 220 [[x]] The offer has been accepted and legalized. Twenty-eight years later, Turkey's National Assembly Act was renewed. On behalf of the Council, on behalf of the Court, I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to the MPs and the members of our political parties, and to the members of the group, I wish you all the best. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In accordance with the decision taken, it is Thursday (December 1st 2011) that we discuss whether or not the motion to ask for a motion on Mr. Besir Atalay will be taken into consideration, and that we will discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of legislation and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
