tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 33th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the Central Management Budget Bill of 2012 and the Central Management Computation Bill of 2010. Under the schedule, we'll have two rounds of interviews today. The third round includes the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, the President of the Disaster and Emergency Management, the President of the Religious Affairs, the Chairman of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, the President of the Turkish Co-operation and Development Administration, the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, the Undersecretary of the Treasury, the Banking Editing and Control Agency, the Capital Market Board budgets. (x) 87 and 88 S. The Numbered Basmazes and Funding Cetves are added to the 31st Article of the 31st Union dated 08/12/2011. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. Members of parliament, the 29th Union, dated 06/12/2011, has decided that the questions will be asked without justification in the budget talks and the question-answer process for each round will be 20 minutes. According to this, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour must write their passwords by the end of their talks and press the promise-seeking button on the screen after they identify their fingerprints. The motions of the lawmakers, whose red lights on their microphones are starting to blink, will be accepted. After the talks on the tour are over, the questioners will ask their questions in order of order on the screen. The asking of questions will be completed in ten minutes, and ten minutes to respond. If the answer is completed before ten minutes, the next question holders will be promised for the rest of the time. It's for your information. In the third round, I read the names of the members of the group and their people. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group: Ayla Akat Akat, Batman MP, 15 minutes; Adil Kurt, Hakkari MP, ten minutes; Altan Tan, Diyarbakır MP, 15 minutes. On behalf of the AK PARK Group: Muammar Güler, Mardin MP, Mustafa Bilici, Van MP, five minutes; Hasan Karal, Rize MP, five minutes; Mustafa Kabaqcı, Konya MP, five minutes; Rifat Sait, İzmir MP, five minutes; Ahmet Tevfik Long, Mersin MP, five minutes; Ahmet Yeni, Samsun MP, five minutes; Recai Berber, Manisa MP, five minutes. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group: Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, Osmaniye MP, ten minutes; Sinan Oğan, İğdır MP, fifteen minutes; Sumer Oral, Manisa MP, fifteen minutes. On behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group: Mahmut Tanal, İstanbul MP, Haluk Eyidoğan, İstanbul MP, 10 minutes; İhsan Özkes, İstanbul MP, seven minutes; Haluk Ahmet Şıkesir MP, seven minutes; Hurşit Günçeş, Koseyeli MP, nine minutes. In the name of his subjects: Ali Küzadın, Adana MP, five minutes; Ali İlm Ilm, Kütahya MP, five minutes against him. Interrogation in 20 minutes. Now, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Ayla Akat Ata. Here you go, Mr. Ancestor.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0002par0051	Mr. President, I have the right to speak on behalf of the Party of Peace and Democracy to discuss the budget of the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security. I salute you all. In the early months of 2010, the Undersecretary of Public Orders and Security was established under the Law and Interior Ministry of Public Order and Security Office 5292, and began its activities as of May 31st 2010. Building policies and strategies on the fight against terrorism, co-ordinating between the institutions and institutions involved in this issue. The Undersecretary established with mission definitions has been linked to the Prime Minister's office in 8/7/2011. This Undersecretary, the Chief of Staff, the Chief of Staff, the Chief of Staff, the Deputy Chief of Intelligence, the Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Service, the Undersecretary of Justice, Foreign Affairs and Interior, the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, the Minister of Security, the Minister of Security, and the Minister of Terror and Coast Guard Security. One of the most important tasks is to gather intelligence information between MIT-immunity-gendarm institutions at a center and coordinate. It's not an independent intelligence unit, it's not, and it doesn't have any operational activity related to security, which it doesn't have to be, because it also does the secretary's job of coordination. When we look at the mandate of the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, we also see that respected lawmakers have a duty to produce policies and strategies by doing research, analysis, monitoring and evaluations in the field of counterterrorism. Now, dear lawmakers, how does this mission reflect on the social area? It reflects on the social area through operations carried out under the name "KCK. " Is it possible to talk about the government's success in this matter? We don't think it is, and it seems that it's not seen as a success by the national and national public following this country. According to the European Parliament's research, 119,044 people have been arrested in all countries since 9/11 and 35,117 others have been convicted as terrorists. During that time, 12,897 people were convicted as terrorists and Turkey took the first place in all countries with this performance. The second part of the list is China, with 7,000 people and 1.5 billion inhabitants. Moreover, after 2006, the issue was seen as the years when Turkey moved on to advanced democracy, it suddenly popped up. In fact, according to the same report, the number of people convicted of terrorism with 273 in 2005 has increased to 6,345 in 2009, while 4,815 detentions and 2,057 arrests have been carried out in the last eight months. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, as far as we can tell today about the ACK investigations, the lawsuits and ongoing trials under the name ▪KCK (KCK) are the result of a conjunctural plan with strategic purposes. It has no legal infrastructure; the AKP prefers to block the political, democratic solution. As he turned to BDP, DTK, and other civil organizations, he purposed to use his name on purpose and to crush, struggle, make the Kurdish problem unresolved under the heavy organizational problems that the orientations would create. We know that it's not the political organisation of Kurds, it's the organization of Kurds outside the existing, sovereign, monotheistic, assimilation system. The idea of democratic governance that Kurds sought to be terrorized under the name "KCK" has been seen as a threat to the national status quo as well as to the regional interests of global capital. As long as this perception doesn't change, there is no political success and no solution. Again, when we look at the policies and strategies produced by research, analysis and monitoring, evaluation, we see that religion is being seriously used, but it must not be forgotten that both in the Ottoman period and through the history of the republic, the most important value is the spiritual values that hold the Turkish and Kurdish peoples together. An attempt to undermine these values, to leave them unpoliticized and unwilled, would unfortunately have the opposite effect. For today, we find it useful to draw the attention of the state and relevant units, which are conducting this work, which aims to keep the clergy involved in its policies. Spiritual values are too important to do politics on, and the government must show the necessary sensitivity. Again, valuable lawmakers, when we look at his second assignment, we see that the strategic intelligence from security agencies and intelligence agencies is to provide analysis, sharing and effective use. Now, we're faced with a fact that intelligence is collected in one hand and presented to the service of political power. Well, does that help? When the political power used information that all of the units who had ever made their own intelligence assessments and filed them, using them politically, as in our country today, there have been a number of inextricable problems. Mr. Prime Minister has shown the freedom and courage to make some statements on matters that have not yet been investigated, which have not yet been decided, based on information shared by intelligence agencies. This includes the vision of the country, and the values it argues about, and we're finally building it at the European Court of Human Rights, Turkey's Conference on Decisions, Problems and Solution Proposals, using the following expressions in the Conference on November 15, 2011: that people can freely express their ideas, freely write, draw, speak freely, and use their right to broadcast. We do not claim to have reached the ideal level yet. Now, if the Prime Minister's means of reaching that goal is to use his information politically, he is in the wrong path. Why? Because there is no guarantee that the information given to him will always reach him in a way that can channel right and right politics. To this day, yes, the ruling party has a search for a way to leave politics unpoliticized by the coups expressed by the ruling party through the judiciary. There is no judgment on this issue yet. But it must not be forgotten that the reasons outside should not always be looked at. It is as dangerous to establish a correct policy strategy for the accuracy and orientation of information delivered to him at the point of the solution to the Kurdish problem as are the coup attempts. In this regard, the political government also has to face the threat and danger that it faces at the point of resolving the Kurdish problem and take precautions. The painting is a repetition of the unsatisfactory, unresolved, unsolved, unprovoked, unprovoked, rotten methods that no one approves of today. At this point, it is not possible to specify or express that the Undersecretary is able to complete its mission. It is so important that no country in the world today is considered strong because it has a very large army. If you have a great army, you are not strong, but if you have knowledge, you are a powerful country. But there's a condition, with the right use of that information. If you want to have information, the Prime Minister and the political government have only one thing to do about it, which is to find a solution, by listening to the rhetoric and demands of these sections, by including all of Turkey's dynamics, instead of shutting down all the opposition who showed him the solution on this issue, suppressing the judiciary under a clamp. Again, we felt it necessary to give warning on our part. Another task is to ensure the efficiency and efficiency of coordination between the relevant institutions and institutions. Dear lawmakers, let's give you a practical example. We're still being filmed by at least five cameras in our press releases, in our actions and events, even in a very simple press release. So we're being followed by separate cameras of MIT, the gendarmes, police forces, various units within the police force. Now, we're talking about a budget to ensure this coordination. But with the technical equipment of those relevant units in those activities, they're a staff and an economy. It is worrying for us that a unit, whose staff and economics have been identified separately, is reassembled under the same roof and have a separate budget drawn up. Besides, Mr. Atalay here used this expression in his statement during the establishment of this organization, which he described as the establishment of the Security Undersecretary: this organization will be effective, we will make it effective, maybe not everything is passed down into the text of the law, and let's not be a little too binding, let's work a little flexible. Now, non-binding, non-law-related and flexible work brings to mind many of the facts that we have lived in the past and had to learn from. If we can't analyze what illegal structures have brought to this country in the past, what the flexible working conditions have brought to this country in the past, and if we've felt the need to rephrase when the law passes, when it passes, when the law is established, it's a serious problem. This means that the policy in the past is officially expressed today, and it's being defended, which we see as extremely dangerous. Dear lawmakers, if this process is being carried out by such a separate unit, it's only natural when it comes together that everyone will have a demand and expectation at the point of co-ordination. So, if the goal was to ensure coordination, why was there a debate about co-ordinating when the fight against terrorism was being taken away from the military and given to the police? No experience, no information, no savings? Isn't the process, isn't that information, the time of the savings? The point is, if -- and I'm saying this again -- Mr. Secretary can answer -- is that the funding, the staff, the economy, all of it -- is not to be taken from one power and given to another power device, then what does it mean? If the goal is to ensure coordination, it should not be to be removed from one unit and given to another, but to organise a process in which those who have received results or have not received results so far will continue where they have been kept. Dear lawmakers, another task is the use of national and international work to inform the public and provide social support. Now, this mission aims to create psychological warfare and propaganda and manipulate society and public opinion. In the 1990s, the media was mentioned by the General Staff, and reports made by military sources were forced to publish. The situation is not so different today. The Yandash press is in a position to use information that the judge has not been able to handle, and the family cast, ethnicity, religious faith, history, relatives, brother-in-law, uncle, identity of the people who have been detained and arrested again is given to the newspapers through police. Media bosses are brought together under the name..... and invited to be sensitive and the ears of the editors-in-chief are drawn. Writers are warned, and the sanction of those who do not comply with this policy is tax fines, unemployment and detention. Other than that, the final task is to meet the rule of law, the rule of rights and respect of law. I've had to give you a couple of examples of all of these tasks, as long as it took you to practice them. So which of these has been discussed on a basis based on human rights and the rule of law? At a time when there is no security left, no one in this country feels safe, there is no privacy of privacy, and it's happening around a coordinated environment and within the knowledge of political power, it's not entirely possible to say that this is happening. Turkey does not need such an Undersecretary, but Turkey needs to be ruled in accordance with human rights and the rule of law, which is included in the duties of this Undersecretary. Of course, it is necessary to make a master contract with a constitutional study, but without improvement in lower law norms, unfortunately, there is no right and homework available in the Constitution. We have to make a good constitution, but we also have to think about how this constitution will be introduced under the law, under the House, and how these laws will be enforced by the administration, and we have to ensure that the judiciary is neutral and independent in its interpretation. That's not what happened today. This Undersecretary's actions, in the interest of the country, have been of no interest in the country in the past two years, as of today. Therefore, we express that this budget pen for the Undersecretary should be transferred to other units about the area in question, the area in question, and we believe that its exit from the country's troubled situation will go through a process not by operational methods, but by which dialogue and negotiations are dominant, where the parties listen to each other and deserve each other, not by tolerance, but by respect. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0003par0077	Thank you, Mr. Ancestor. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, the second speaker is Fair Wolf, Hakkari MP. Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0004par0081	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the budget of the President of Disaster and Emergency Management. I salute you all. As you know, our country has suffered major disasters recently. Our country is a country that is accepted on an active earthquake belt, and we often face earthquakes. From the 99 quakes to today, there have been many earthquakes in our country in various times, and in these earthquakes, unfortunately, our people have lost their lives. Of course, I think the earthquake that occurred in lice in the 1970s was actually a sign of how fair and humane we are in the next intervention in the face of earthquakes. If I remember the date correctly, people living in lice have lived in temporary dwellings since the earthquake in lice, 1976. In those days, temporary dwellings in lice were built -- about thirty or so years later -- were not yet temporary, but the victimship of lice was not removed. Do you know why I'm giving you the example of lice, my dear friends? The example of lice is a very important period for political debates at that time. They live in temporary dwellings from that day until now, provided they are punished for voting for Mr. Ecevit (Mr. Ecevit) for not voting for them. Of course, we did not give a positive test in the earthquake that occurred in our country in '99. We experienced the same picture in the earthquake that took place in the 99. Our people died under the rubble, and we had to talk about political debates again. The wounds of the inhabitants of this land, which had suffered an earthquake in Bolu, and in Lakecuk, and in Sakarya, are still not covered. On October 23, 2011, an earthquake occurred in Van, as you know. In this earthquake, until today... we call it the number because, unfortunately, from October 23rd to today, we still don't have a clear number of citizens lost their lives in the Van earthquake -- the two earthquakes that followed. So we say that around 700 Vanli died in this earthquake. Funerals are mixed up, we say it's a human condition, but if we don't know how many of our citizens are still dead in the Van earthquake, we have to think about the condition of the living Vans. Our dear friends, after the Van earthquake, we were faced with an apparent case of separatism, an apparent case of discrimination. Two days after the Van earthquake, you'll all remember the talks that took place on this council bench, and we were all here together. Look, my friends, when we told you that some villages could be reached here 48 hours later, Mr. Secretary: you have not gone to Van. They told us. Maybe, we'll have this kind of political debate from the podium, and we'll welcome it. A day later, the governor of Van made a statement: "Sir, there are villages we can't reach." So we went out and asked Mr. Minister: Mr. Secretary, we trust your word, we believe your word, but what's the governor's explanation? Now, there's a lot of problems with polymics, but we really want it to be stopped from being a polemic issue. Van - God forbid - how much is our ability to intervene if an earthquake occurs in Istanbul? There was an application as a guinea pig for measurement. Mr. Secretary himself stated: "To see our capacities. Why would you see your capacities? Why did you need that capacity measurement in the Van earthquake? If there is an earthquake in Istanbul, let us know what our reflexes are. My dear friends, even today, the governorship is publishing reports of aid organizations that are helping Van. The Peace and Democracy Party, in which case our municipalities have set up emergency tents, set up emergency tents, and are helping people there, and still the provinces of the Party of Peace and Democracy have helped them. He's violating a statement like that. My dear friends, there will be a lot of debate over Van. And when the Minister comes out, I'm sure he'll talk about it, and he'll share with us today what the real picture is about the condition of Van. We'll learn, we really want to learn, but we want to point out two important things: Dear friends, the province of Ercish will not solve Van's problems. So we've expressed this offer from day one that we don't take kindly to. It is not realistic to declare that the Van would become a capital city in this picture. There's no solution to the problem again, and we're distanced from it. We feel that we should discuss the problem of Van Nah on a realistic basis. We have also expressed our opposition to the motion of the geneorization for Mr. Atalay on the agenda of the House because we don't want any political debates to be made, and we don't want them to. We argue with each other on different grounds, if there is one, we do our criticism until the end, but we don't make a human situation the object of a political debate, we don't side with it. So if Van hasn't been declared a disaster zone by now, it's the government's shame. Legally, the areas that suffer from earthquakes above seven are disaster zones, my dear friends, but have not been declared a disaster zone. Come on, let's not get damp on every word, but the Prime Minister has made it very clear: they want us to declare a disaster zone. I'll tell you why, my dear citizens, because we're going to have to give a lot of money to the municipalities, and they're going to transfer it to certain places. They're not words to be eaten, they're not words to be swallowed, my dear friends, they're not words to be eaten, they're words to be swallowed. Yeah, we're doing politics, we're criticizing each other, we're competing, but we're not supposed to use those words on human situations. If any of our municipalities have sent a penny anywhere, which you're studying every day, you'll be fined. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I think we're out of time. We'll probably have to discuss this a lot. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0005par0097	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, the third speaker is Altan Tan, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0006par0100	Mr. President, my dear friends, today I'm going to make a presentation on the religious work. Dear friends, religious-state relations are the top of issues that have been debated the most since the early days of history, which determine power, which create great turmoil in society. I'll start with a recipe very briefly. Even if you ask an elementary school student, what's the Teocrasm? Again, the same elementary school student will answer the question, "What is secularism? " The separation of religion and state affairs. I'm afraid not. But throughout history, the greatest debate and the disaster of religions -- I'm saying that this needs to be rephrased -- is that religion, the state, or the status quo, is at the disposal of forces. I'm not going to tell you a long history of the world, I'm going to come quickly to this day. The first great disaster happened in Judaism. When Jewish rabbis brought interest, banking, abuse of their judicial powers to the point of breaking all relations, Jesus Christ came, and Jesus'primary duty was to restore the Jewish Law to the truth. But unfortunately, the same disaster has happened to Christianity. In the year 313 B.C., Milan was considered a Christian religion by the Roman Empire, known by the Roman Empire, but until that day, Christians and Christian axioms, unfortunately lost their originality in the pagan, pagan faith of Rome. In the history of Islam, these painful experiences begin during the Emevis. The formation of regular armies, the entering of religion under the command of the state, the power, the sultan, the king's king's view, is the period of Yazid, and then the period of Abbasi. All Islamic scholars oppose it. Imamaazam does not accept the official commission of Abbasi caliph, which is forbidden. He says, "This is forbidden." He dies under torture. It's the same thing that happened to Shafii. It's the same thing that happened to Imam Hanbel. Imam Malik is not the same type of biat that was taken with force. When he gave his fatwa, the king who called himself caliph would become illegitimate and a branch of Imam Malik would be injured in torture. He does not attend the invitation of Imam Gazali Selçuklu Sultan Senser, and does not sit at the table of the sultans of the palace. Jaferi Sadik and 12 imams follow the same path in the Shiite and in their minds. One of the most important examples of religion under the Emperor is the Byzantine model, and the official state, including the Seljukian era, lacks a position of sheikhism, while Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror, and Sultan Sultan Sultan Sultan Sultan Sultan Sultan Sultan Sultan Süleyman, who became fully institutionalised during the period, and under which there is a status, under which there is a king, the king, the prime minister, and the third under whom there is a sheikh, under whom the government has a sheikh. Padişah and Sadrazam throw him out whenever he wants, and the head of the sheikh can go away whenever he wants. I said it's a disaster of religion. Why is religion a disaster? Because when there is no independent, free, free faith, no government, no money, no power, and no position, a period of religion and conquest comes into play at the point the sovereigns want. An Ottoman sultan II. Mehmet can slaughter 19 of his brothers and get a fatwa. In the same way, in the period after the republic, the republic established the Ottoman position of this sheikulism as its ministry, and then it was established as the Ministry of Evkaf. It's a sense of state under the command of religion. A religion that is translated in 1932. My lesson, Sheikh Sait, there are cases of pain, tens of thousands of people are killed, Islamic Atef Hodja, Mashallah Ali Effendi is executed, but the president of Diyanet Affairs at that time can't be heard from. Well...
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0007par0109	It's not about religion, it's about individuals.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0006par0110	What's that got to do with it? It's about the individuals. And they're singing from the AK PARTY rows. That's a shame.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0007par0111	Religion does not command this.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0006par0112	If religion is not free, if it is at the command of the government, then also what happens to Pir Sultan is what happens to him, and the Pashas will come and hang their teacher. This is so in Aleviyah, and in Shiah, and in Christianity, and in Islam. You guys should be clapping for me. I'm saying this for you. Take it out of the hands of the religious government. The Head of Dianet Affairs should be autonomous because none of them worked under the government's orders. My master needs to be free. Religion needs to be free. So it is for him that today, what we insist on defending and saying, as of today, in the new regulations of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, the services of religion must be in the sense that the state is equal to everyone, all religion, sects and institutions, if secularism is being defended, true secularism and neutral. Religious service must be left to civilian space. The congregations, groups, organizations, sects must work freely and at this point the state must be at the same distance as all religions, sects, beliefs. If there is an arrangement today, if it is too difficult to build a new model by removing the President of Religious Affairs in the right way, then today's religious work must be rearranged. I'm not saying that the religious scholars have to... look, there isn't a clergy class in Islam, all of them. Diyanette must have Shiilik, Alevilik, Shafii, services, chapters, because we have Shii brothers in Iğdır, in Kars, most of our Kurdish brothers, Shafii, are also a serious Alevi population. Religion must serve all of them. It certainly shouldn't be in the service of just a sect and a thought. If there's a transfer from the budget -- which is true, the first model is completely left to civilian space -- but if there's any support from the budget, it should be equal to the population and representation of communities and religions, as well as the population and representation of religions. Religious education must be opened up. Now, that's one of the most clear issues in the Republic. What does it mean to open the way for religious education? I say this very clearly: The Cemevs must also be opened, the Heybeliada seminary must also be opened, and the work of all other sects and congregations today -- illegal, informal, internal -- must be legal and released. No state has the authority to determine its own education or curriculum according to the NGO, according to the Ministry of National Education. I mean, he can read whatever he wants, whatever he wants, whatever he wants, whatever he wants, in a Christian, Jewish, Alevi, Shia, or any other religion, because it's a private area. Again, one of the key points in the issue of Shafii is that today, about 20 percent of Turkey is experiencing serious difficulties while Shafii is the 25th. Saidi Kurdi, one of the greatest scholars of the Shafii, did not attend Friday prayer for a long period of time. I mean, maybe it's something that very few people know about. Sometimes she's gone to Friday prayers, and I mean these last periods of her life, the 40 years of her life. The question is: Why don't you go? He said: I am Shafii. Forty people have to read the case of Fatiha at Friday prayer. According to the Hanefi sect, it's done in mosques. I can't raise that Fatiha after my suggestion. It's in his own works. Another example is that he wanted to pray separately with his friends, and the gendarmes, and the police. There's a pattern to these events. You can also apply for a copy of the book Letter. It's not humility or gossip. So, to sum up the subject in summary, today, no matter what religion is in its original form -- no matter what religion I repeat -- it has to be free from state, free from state, by its own beliefs, by its own beliefs, by its own beliefs, by its own education, by its curriculum, by its own religion, and by its own traditions. Which Saidi Nursi calls this intervention a murder, as he calls it, an intervention in Friday's prayer with his friends. The same should be done for Christians and Jews, of course. As we say, the state must remain neutral. Regarding today, one of the biggest problems today is not giving Kurdish sermons while there are no religious, Islamic barriers. During the thousand and four hundred years of Islamic history, Kurdish, Zazaca, Arabic, Circeçe, Chechen, Bosnian, Albanian, anyone who understands any language was preached in those areas. There is no fault in him. And I'd like to invite the President of Religious Affairs to explain his fetish if such an obstacle exists. The Ministry of Religious Affairs, of course, is unable to speak freely as long as there is an institution at the disposal of the state, not fully expressing its understanding of Islamic religion; although it has a large staff, Turkey's largest staff and its largest budget, unfortunately, it cannot provide enough service. There are serious problems with literature. Over the course of Islamic history, tens of thousands of skin classics, unfortunately, despite such a large budget, few of them have yet been offered to the service of our Muslim brothers and sisters. Anyway, there's almost no study of Shiite resources. Because the Shiites also have very serious resources in their own way, in their case, in their interpretation, in their own words. Likewise, religious scholars who claim to represent Islam cannot remain neutral in any social, economic, or serious matter because scholars are heirs of the enzymes, in the words of the Prophet (Sallahu Aisellem, in the words of Sallamu Vesellem. Today, one of our country's biggest problems is the three that all Islamic scholars have said about the rights of the people concerning the Kurdish problem. All tribes, Albanians, Bosniak, Kurdish, Arab, Turkish, Laz, Chechen, Georgian, Pomak can use three rights. 1) There is no obstacle to education in the main language. 2) He can use this language in public. 3) He has the will to join the government. The embezzlement of Muslim Muslims, such as a privileged element, can't be, it can't be, it can't be, it can't be, it can't be, it can't be, it can't be, it can't be, it can't be, it can't be, it can't be, it can't be, it can't be, it can't be, it can't be, it can't be, it No Muslim can embezzle another Muslim; he has equal political rights, equal rights to rule. If there's a conflict or a twist or a mistake in what I'm saying about this, I'd like to ask the President of the Religious Affairs to make that determination again. Dear friends, finally, I have a few requests for Diyarbakır, our district. Here, we need women friends and honorary imams who give eight months of Koran courses. There is no serious institution in Diyarbakır. I demand the establishment of an institution of confility, a serious and large institution. I give you all my regards, my love.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0008par0129	Thank you, Mr. Tan. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the first speaker is Muammar Guler. Here you go, Mr. Guler.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0009par0133	Mr. President, Congressmans, I would like to welcome you on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of Undersecretary of Public Order and Security. I salute your high council. The Undersecretary of Public Order and Security was established on February 17, 2010, under the obligation to go to a new institutional organisation to strengthen the fight against terrorism. The Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, which I have been honored to serve as the Undersecretary of the Founder, was appointed Prime Minister on 8 July 2011. We believe that this exchange of commitments will bring benefits in terms of more effective implementation of the institution's purpose and the ability to achieve the highest level of coordination. Following our completion of the term, we thank Governor Niyazi Tanırıl, who runs the Undersecretary's office, for his valuable work and contributions to the Undersecretary staff, and ask for success in his work as well as our belief that recently appointed Ambassador Murat Özcelik will conduct this mission in the best possible way as his vast state experience and career. Mr. President, under the 6th Amendment of the agency's law, the valuable MPs have drawn up the Anti-Terror Strategy Document. In our opinion, this has been one of the most important activities of the Undersecretary at this time. As the document was drawn up, national and international strategy documents and action plans, reports by NGOs, scientific research and expert assessments were used. The action plan to be prepared in accordance with this document is under way. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in this part of my statement, I would like to express our recommendations on the structure and work of the Undersecretary. The name and field of activity of the institution is associated with different organisations and structures in visual media, in series, and especially in virtual worlds, social networking sites, and a negative image is created. Therefore, it is important that the institution's true mission and mission be properly explained to the public. Undersecretary should focus on problems with a more civil appearance and a new approach. The Law-based Anti-Terror Coordination Board must be assembled periodically and more operational. In this context, the secretary of the High Council for Anti-Terrorism, which has no legal ground yet, must also be conducted as Undersecretary. Legal arrangements to fund social support projects should be made for research and development projects related to the undersecretary's field of duty. In addition, undersecretary experts should be given career professional status and should be brought up as an expert assistant to the institution's future. There should be increased the number of qualified and adequate experts in the Undersecretary, a place where he should have an opinion on the fight against terrorism. In the meantime, experts in temporary status should be put on the staff and made an official member of the institution. He should co-operate more effectively with universities, institutes, and thinkers working on matters of secretariat, terrorism and security, and work on terrorism as a government think tank. Again, the Agency for Intelligence Investigation, envisioned by the law, must be quickly processed. The undersecretary must be used more heavily than the property manager's staff, and the experience of executives coming in from the practice must be made especially in the field of counterterrorism. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the last thing I want to say is that they're interested in the archive and documentation center, which is supposed to be established in the Undersecretary. Turkey has been busy with terrorism for many years. Any detection and study of terrorism, research, proposals, reports, information in different institutions is needed at a memory center, where data storage and management centers will be collected. Given that both official institutions and researchers will benefit from this centre, the centre must be implemented in the coming period. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I ask that the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security's budget of 2012 be good and that the Undersecretary sign up for successful work, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0010par0147	Thank you, Mr. Guler. Second speaker for the AK PARTI Group, Mustafa Bilici, Van MP. Here you go, Mr. Knower.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0011par0151	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the budget for the 2012 Central Management Budget Bill, the Afet and Emergency Management Presidency. I salute your high council. The major earthquakes in our country have revealed the need for a review of the disaster management system in Turkey, and the government's Emergency Action Plan for 2003 has been involved with suggestions expressed in research and study. With the Law on the Office and Missions of Offices of Disaster and Emergency Management 5902, a new disaster management model has finally been established in our country due to the closure of the Ministry of Emergency Directorate of Turkey, the Ministry of Civil Defence General Directorate of the Interior and the Ministry of Public Affairs and the Ministry of Housing and the General Directorate of Disaster and Emergency Management in accordance with the Prime Ministership. On 23 November 2011, AFAD's rapid and effective response to the earthquake disaster in Van (AFAD), co-ordinated by the measures it took after the earthquake, among institutions and organizations, has once again demonstrated how justified and important the foundation's motive was. Once again, the earthquake, which faced the painful truth, has caused destruction, loss of life and property in Van. It has caused physical, economic, and social losses for our citizens, cutting down normal life and human activities, affecting society deeply. A number of measures have been taken to ease the lives of our citizens who were affected by the earthquake and ease their distress, and they have been shared with the public by our Prime Minister.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0012par0155	Did you build a prefabricated house?
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0011par0156	In the same way, the process of the reconstruction of the Van (Van) was rapidly initiated...
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0012par0157	Tell us about the shelter of the van.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0011par0158	New construction sites have been determined by the risk of earthquakes. We believe that we will leave these difficult and painful days behind as soon as possible with all the dynamics of our country. The important thing is to live with the constant reality of our country, aware of the risk of earthquakes, and to rebuild its living spaces with these facts. There has been a rapid response to the area in a way that has never been seen since the earthquake. Although there are some missing, these are quickly detected and quickly intervened. Mr. Prime Minister Van visited the earthquake site twice by not leaving his people alone, listening to the troubles of the citizens himself, studying the work in its place.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0012par0160	How many prefabricated houses have you built? Tell us that. You're a Van MP, tell me that.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0011par0161	I'll tell you, I'll tell you. From this bench, once again, I ask God's mercy and patience for our citizens who died in the earthquake. On behalf of the people of Van, I thank you, in the presence of all of you, for our beloved nation, who have come to our aid in this cold winter day with their warm hearts.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0013par0163	Give me the real number.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0011par0164	So far, 73,679 tents, 7.907 containers of life, 480 general purpose tents, 260 prefabricated houses, 3,794 homes have been sent and installed in total 22,000 containers. Again, Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay was constantly present at the Van, accelerating the flow of coordination by observing the work. Likewise, our other cabinet ministers have never left us alone, and they have been with our people in the constant earthquake zone. On behalf of the people of Van, I want to thank you for your interest and contribution to all lawmakers under the roof of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. I believe there's something we can all do on the way to becoming a nation with a sense of disaster. On this occasion, I wish our 2012 budget to our country, to our nation.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0014par0168	Thank you, Mr. Knower. The third speaker on behalf of the AK PARTY is Hasan Karal, Rize MP. Here you go, Mr. Karal.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0015par0172	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the 2012 budget for the Ministry of Religious Affairs. I salute you all. Honourable lawmakers are an institution that, in accordance with the duties and powers vested in them by the Presidency of Religious Affairs, the Constitution, the law and other legislation, governs the affairs of Islam's religion on the basis of faith, worship and morality, enlightening the community on matters of religion and leading the places of worship. Ministerial and educational services for our citizens abroad and abroad are also important not only in a religious way but also in national, historical, social, and cultural values. In the period of our government through the EC PARTI ruling process, the institution gained not only in the country, but in the world as well. Within the country, our people, our intellectuals, and our scientists, have a concrete view of the institution. It is a clear sign of the interest and concern of the political and bureaucratic representatives of concerned countries, religious leadership heads, NGOs, and university environments in the same way. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the main tasks assigned to the President of Religious Affairs is the subject of religious education. In this area, Koran courses and training centres continue to improve by reviewing them physically and educationally, and programmes conducted both in Koran courses and in service training have been updated during our administration. The Koran courses, based on the diversity of services produced by social demands, have been re-organised and more functional in the era of our government for past bans on education, education and social activities. In 22 countries, the presidency still has a religious services appointment within the embassies to coordinate foreign services and within the framework of the 24 consulates. The human profile that we face in countries like Europe, America and Australia today is the 60's, 70's, 80's and 90's! In my years, the first and second generation, not our mid-life and senior citizens, is the third and fourth generation of young people who are more integrated in their country, who are well-versed in Western languages, who are close to their own peers and professions and education. Granted, it is more difficult and more complicated to offer effective religious service to this audience than before. The problems that the previous generations have not faced are the third and fourth generation of our descendants. At this stage, we need equipped religious officials who have internalized universal values based on knowledge, who use healthy means of communication with the target audience. For this reason, the Ministry of Religious Affairs has raised the criteria for personnel sent abroad, such as a partial master's degree under the conditions of the country concerned. As our government, our goal is to offer religious service to our relatives and to every country that humanity needs and to support efforts that will allow all mankind over the ages to get the right understanding of Islam. The Ministry of Religious Affairs has been restructured by amendments made to Law No. 6002 on the Foundation and Missions of Diet Affairs No. 633. With the support of all political parties in parliament, this Law has been established. I hereby thank you to all of our groups who support this Law in the 23rd Amendment. One of the main tasks of the Ministry of Religious Affairs is to carry out the Hajj and Umre organizations. Our government has taken the utmost care to meet its intense demand in transparency and objective measurements, regardless of trade gains and interests, and is careful to arrange and plan with great care. The EC PARTY government is being watched and appreciated by many Muslim countries as it paves the way for these services during the process. Mr. President, the budget for the President of the Religious Affairs in 2012 increased by 22.40 per cent compared to 2011 to 3 billion 891 million 166,000 TL. When we look at the 2012 budget bill, 95.42 per cent of the bill constitutes employee costs and state premiums for social security institutions. Finally, the ruling-Muslim President of Dianet Affairs, the mosaic of our society, where all of our political parties care for it and does not want it to be harmed, wishes that the 2012 budget, for our nation and for our country, would be a blessing, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0016par0186	Thank you, Mr. Karal. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the fourth speaker is Mustafa zukcı, the Conium MP. Here you go, Mr. Pumpkin.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0017par0190	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget for the President of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency for the 2012 Financial Budget Bill. I salute you all. After the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the TİKA was established as a National Technical Aid Agency in 1992 to respond to the needs of change, harmony and development of the Central Asian republics. In particular, Turkey's development abroad, co-operation and emergency humanitarian aid move, with increasing momentum after 2002, continues its work by increasing its TİKA activity and prevalence. In the early years of its establishment, the TİKA had a field of Caucasians and Central Asia, and after 2002 it expanded its activity geography to include all countries on the road to development in the Balkans, Central Asia and Africa, especially the sister states. During our rule, Turkish foreign policy gained great development and momentum, becoming carefully monitored on the international platform. In parallel with global developments and national priorities, new openings have been made in Central Asia, the Caucasus, the Middle East, the Balkans and Africa. A siege, complementary, and brotherly approach to every part of the world has been adopted. The amount of Turkey's official development aid was around $1 billion, as a result of studies from 2004-2010. In addition to the grants earmarked from the general budget in 2010, the budget of the TİKA (TİKA) exceeds $100m, along with transfers from the budgets of the Prime Ministerate and other institutions. In 2002, the number of TİKA programme coordination offices was 12 and the number reached 28 offices in 25 countries in 2010. Precious lawmakers, if we take a closer look at the projects conducted by the TİKA (TİKA), the work of TİKA (TİKA) on the food crisis in Somalia, the contribution to the reconstruction process in Libya, the opening of Talgar Kazakh High School in Almat, the restoration of Ottoman artifacts from the Sudan Suakin Island, the restoration of historical monuments in the Ottoman era, the restoration of Razgrad Makbul İbrahim Pasha Mosque in Bulgaria, the restoration of Hodja Bahaddin Veled in Afghanistan, the restoration of the House of Mavlana. When we look at it as a field of activity, we can consider the expansion of social infrastructure, the development of economic infrastructure, human emergency aid, information, publicity and publishing as the main areas. As part of these projects, the number of projects carried out in 2010 in the areas where TİKA (TİKA) worked has reached 1,673. A significant part of these projects took place in the Balkans, Caucasus, Central Asia, Middle East regions, where we have shared history and cultural backgrounds. The rising country, Turkey, continues its activities and initiatives at all points of cultural geography. We have seen foreigners operating in various parts of our country, building libraries, opening health clinics. When we explained their intentions at the time as human purposes, we later realized that they had a intention to break the brother to the brother. The TİKA is currently on its way to meet the brother, and will continue to grow and grow stronger. I want to thank Mr. Prime Minister, our Secretary of State, our TİKA President and all of his employees on behalf of our nation. I would like to bring another thing to your agenda with this contribution from TİKA (TİKA), who had reached Afghanistan and performed restoration of the House of State: it is like a bright lamp. Of course, the light of the 20 lamps is more than the light of one candle. There are the 738th anniversary ceremonies of the Holy One, who called out to us, pointing out our common mind, the Grand Assembly of our nation. In the name of Iconia, I am also honored to invite all our deputies to Iconium. As I end my words, I wish the 2012 fiscal year budget to be good, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0018par0202	Thank you, Mr. Pumpkin. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the fifth speaker is Rifat Sait, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Sait.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0019par0206	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY on the budget of the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys under the Central Management Budget Bill of 2012. I hereby salute your high council. Our country is in a strategically important geography in the intersection of civilizations. We have nearly 200 million family members and relatives all over the world, mostly in this geography. A state ministry has been established in each period to coordinate matters related to our citizens and relatives living abroad, based on the importance of this issue. Dear lawmakers, before the presidency was established, there were public institutions and institutions that worked on this issue, which exceeded it, which belonged to different ministries. Our family members faced various problems because the services offered by institutions differed. The absence of a central structure gathered under a single roof to resolve these problems would prevent institutional memory and effective continuation of services. In an effort to work on our citizens living abroad and to address their problems, to develop social, cultural and economic relations within a plan, to address the problems of foreign students coming to our country, Law 5978, adopted on 24 March 2010, was established by the President of Turkish and Relative Community abroad. As a Rumeli Turk, whose family immigrated from Kosovo to Turkey in 1956, I am a member of parliament who takes special interest in the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys. As a journalist, we have published many articles on this subject. In fact, the first foundations of the presidency were established in February 2010, with the participation of our Prime Minister, at a meeting held in Istanbul with 1,700 Turkish representatives of the NGO and different representatives from various parts of the world. I've been to this meeting. After the presidency was established, it was introduced to NGOs concerned in İzmir in January 2011, with the joint work of the Balkan Centre for Strategic Research and the University of September 9th. I think in the future, the presidency is important enough to become a ministry in its own right. With the establishment of the presidency, important steps have been taken to meet the expectations of our descendants from the United States to Australia, especially in Europe. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the President of the Foreign Turks and the Association of Relatives 2010 and 2011, polling practices for our citizens living abroad, 50 of the migration to Germany. As part of the annual activities, Mr. Prime Minister's citizen meetings in Germany, the concert of Turkish-German youth music community, the drafting of legislation to ensure that our citizens living abroad can vote in the elections, the six-month extension of Turkish citizens' special vehicles and their time in Turkey to two years, the I.Ds built in Eurasia and the Turkey Project, 1st. The draft of the British-Turkish Education Study, the printing of the Book of our Citizens who Live abroad, the seminar on religious officials who have been deployed abroad, the study of our citizens for the Two Languages and Multicultural Project in Pre-School Education and the creation of the action plan created within this scope, prepared courses for the examination of the Turkish Republic and the Turkish Associations, the introduction of the examinations in seven counties in the country, and in 14 countries abroad, the discovery of civilian society institutions for the field of the presidency, and the introductions of the information for which has been established in all areas related to the field of office of the presidency. The presidency has many activities in the short, medium and long term for 2012 and later. I don't want to talk about them because of the limitations of my time. But I would simply like to say that the president congratulates the citizens and relatives of the Republic of Turkey, who live abroad with the TİKA and the Dolphin Emre Institute, and I wish them well. I think you'll do a particularly valuable job for the president's son, the conqueror. As I stop speaking on the basis of the budget of this institution, which is very important to our relatives and relatives living abroad, I salute your grand delegation and the members of the Turkish world around the world.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0020par0220	Thank you, Mr. Sait. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the sixth speaker is Ahmet Tofik Uzuk, MP of Mersin. Here you go, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0021par0224	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, in the third round of the 2012 Financial Budget Bill talks, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group regarding the Treasury Undersecretary's budget. I salute you all. The Undersecretary of Treasury, whose institutional roots extend to the Ottoman state of Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror, is one of our leading institutions in providing economic development. In co-operation with all actors, the economy has functions and tasks such as transparent, accountable and effectively managing public financial assets and obligations, establishing regulations with economic, financial and sectoral policies, implementing, auditing and co-ordinating international economic relations. Dear friends, global financial markets have faced a serious crisis that has shaken the world financially and socioeconomically for the past four years. Remember, this crisis was seen by the IMF as the biggest economic crisis of the United Nations since the depression of 1929, and by the United Nations as the biggest economic crisis of the century. In the global economy, liquidity has taken a negative line and its risk perceptions have been corrupted. This disruption in risk perception has naturally caused a serious recession in credit markets. Turkey has been positively separated from many countries by its sound financial position in this global uncertainty environment. As a result of structural policies that have been implemented since 2002, public balances have been a problem in Turkey, and the sustainability of public debt is no longer a source of concern. Budget indicators have improved significantly, and debt reduction has been reduced. In parallel with improving public balances, the EU-defined stockpile of general debt management was 42.2% of the GDP in 2010. That's 73.7 percent when we came to power in 2002. While concerns about the sustainability of debt in many European countries are expected to continue in the middle term, Turkey's EU-defined stock of general management debt is estimated to be 39.8 per cent in 2011; it is expected to fall gradually by 32 per cent by 2014. Dear lawmakers, there are also positive developments in our country's external debt requirements. Thirty years of bond exports in early 2011 in U.S. dollars have been the lowest cost-effective transaction we've ever done. In 2011, after ten years, a ten-year bond of 180 billion yen was exported to the Japanese new market. Dear President and valued lawmakers, the Financial Co-operation of the Turkish-European Union has entered a new phase with the Pre-Accession Financial Aid Tool, which was put into effect in 2007. The total amount of funds earmarked to our country for the 2007-2013 period is 4.9 billion euros. An important task of the Undersecretary of Treasury is to carry out the duties and responsibilities required by public economic initiatives and the ownership of other public enterprises. In 2010, investment spending at 5.8 billion is estimated to reach $6.9 billion at the end of 2011 and 9.1 billion in 2012. This increase will play a role, especially in high-speed train project investments and deep-sea oil exploration and drilling investments. By the end of November 2011, about 1,200,000 farmers used loans for $19.8 billion in low interest loans that we gave our farmers between zero and 5%. The People's Bank also used $5.5 billion in loans to our tradesmen and artists as a result of the low interest loans, and in the first 11 months of 2011, 245 thousand of our tradesmen took advantage of it. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the confidence established during the nine-year period of EC PARTI power, the stability built, the democratic reputation of great determination and effort is a work of politics that shows the will to resolve all our country's issues with courage. If a democratic order has begun to take root in our country today, if our economy is among the world's most stable growing economies, if our future vision has shown a surprising challenge in the face of the global crisis, if our future vision has been clear in solid steps, the main dynamic of this success is undoubtedly, in the name of the nation, is pure politics. I wish you all the best luck with the Treasury Undersecretary's budget.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0022par0238	Thank you, Mr. Long. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the seventh speaker is Ahmet New, Samsun Milligate. Here you go, Mr. New.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0023par0242	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Justice and Development Party and my person over the budget of the Banking Organization and Control Agency in 2012. I hereby salute your high council. I'd like to thank everyone who's been working on the budget as I begin my speech. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers went through a serious period of restructuring in the Turkish banking sector after 2002. During this period, public banks have been restructured, regulatory and controlling frameworks have been reinforced. Structural changes have been made, such as strengthening the sector's capital base, removing troubled banks from the system in various ways. As such, Banking Law number 5411, issued in 2005 represents a crucial turning point for financial stability, development of the sector, protection of the rights and interests of austerity owners. Based on Banking Law 5411, the arrangement framework of the sector has been adapted to the best practices in the international area and has been set in line with the standards set under Basel principles. With all this, the banking sector has begun to grow and become immune to crises. The weaknesses faced by the banking sectors of many developed countries today were not an issue for the Turkish banking sector, thanks to the measures and regulations taken by the EC PARTY governments on time. Today, the Turkish banking sector is too important to compare with many countries in the world. Mr. President, in the time of the AK PARTI governments, our banking sector's own resources, net profits, deposits, staff and branch numbers, the use of individual, agricultural and commercial loans and support for the real sector has been steadily increased, and the following credit rates have been steadily reduced. The numbers I'm going to share with you now clearly reveal the growth recorded by the Turkish banking sector. The number of branches, 6,321 in 2002, rose to 10,546 today, to 195,879. From 2002 to today, 4,255 new branches have been opened, and 54,371 people have been given jobs in the banking sector.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0024par0250	56% of banks belong to foreigners. What the hell!
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0025par0251	Mr. Ahmet, we've been wondering about the books!
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0023par0252	The active total of the banking sector, which was 129 billion dollars in 2002, increased to 697 billion dollars as of October 2011. Mr. President, when we look at the individual, agricultural and commercial loans that are being used, there are huge increases. In 2011, credit growth was 27 per cent compared to 2010. This increase is 30.3 percent at the People's Bank. Although loans have increased, in 2002 the average amount of loans, which were 17 per cent, dropped to 2 per cent as of today. This amount is 1.3% at the Agriculture Bank. The following loans are much higher in European countries. When we look at capital efficiency again, the legal limit is 8 per cent, although the target is 12 per cent, it has reached 16.6 per cent today. Mr. President, the world has been shaken by various crises. These crises have had devastating effects in the world's banking sector. Over 400 banks have sunk in the United States, while European countries have had to transfer funds to the financial sector in the process, and additional figures have come into their budget. The only country among the OECD countries that does not provide funds to the banking sector, yes, is the government of the Republic of Turkey. Dear lawmakers, I've been overseeing these banks for nine years as head of the CSI Commission subcommittee. Thankfully, the bank has never been sunk or transferred to the fund.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0026par0258	The citizen has been sunk.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0023par0259	I don't have time to tell you about these books now, how can I? [[Noises in CHP and MHP rows]] I urge every congressman to read the books of the banks that were sunk before 2002. Look how the country was robbed before 2002. Building Bank, Marmarabank, Bayindurbank, counting...
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0027par0263	You owe that book to the 57th government!
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0023par0264	Yes, before 2000, before 2002, these banks were sunk.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0028par0265	Citizen sunk, banks sold.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0023par0266	In our era, no bank has ever been sunk or transferred to the fund. For him, the great Turkish nation says to the Justice and Development Party, "Keep on going." Every election... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is continuing to increase his vote. Here, as the political and economic stability continues, both our banks and our nation will continue to win.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0029par0270	Mr. New, please... please...
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0023par0271	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0030par0273	What were those books for?
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0031par0274	But, look, taking pictures makes me look like a educated man! The educated man, the educated man!
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0032par0275	On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the eighth speaker is Recai Berber, MP of Manisa. Here you go, Mr. Barber.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0033par0278	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group over the 2012 budget budgetary budget bill of the Central Management Budget Act of 2012. I salute your high council. The Capital Market Board was founded in 1981 with the independent, administrative and financial autonomy established by Act 2499, which was established in 1981 to ensure that savings can be invested effectively and widely into the development of assets and to ensure that the capital market works in confidence, openness and determination, maintaining and overseeing the rights and interests of the austerity owners. Precious lawmakers, the SEC has carried out a number of studies aimed at expanding the supply and demand side of the capital market to increase the diversity of vehicles in markets and the number of public companies, to improve private sector debt tools, markets. In addition to increasing size and diversity in the markets, it has brought various new regulations to protect investors' rights and to increase transparency in the markets. Recently, many new measures have been taken, particularly in the second-hand markets, aimed at preventing manipulation. With measures aimed at making the public process faster and easier, both Turkey's leading companies and the SMEs are intended to be encouraged to go public. There has been a significant increase in companies coming into our stock market as part of the IPO and IMKB's public supply campaign. Despite the world's financial crisis, the number of public companies was 22 in 2010 and 25 in 2011. Meanwhile, the size of our investment funds is now around $31 billion, while the pension funds are around $11 billion. Dear lawmakers, local investors in capital markets are increasing day by day due to a decline in the rates of nominal and real interest. The total number of investors of stock, investment funds and similar capital vehicles increased by 2,470,000 in November, increasing by approximately 200,000 in November 2011 to around 3,670,000 in November 2011. The number of people investing in private sector bonds over the past year is 100,000, and the number of local investors investing in stocks is 60. Our country, capital markets, despite the worldwide crisis, continue its progress on the right course towards the Istanbul International Centre for Finance. Although it is satisfactory to see that the number of companies that have been processed in the IMKB, along with increased public supply in recent years, has exceeded 360, and the market value of these companies is nearing $300 billion, this is not enough for our country. We want our company to fund through the capital market, and we want the capital to spread to a wider base. In recent years, the amendments to capital market legislation have also provided us with many new instruments, such as media and rent certificates. As it is known, more than 60 per cent of the shares in the IMKB are in foreign hands. It also reflects the confidence and positive expectations of foreign investors in our country, while also pointing to the shortage of domestic demand for our capital market. A new notice has been issued by the SPK, which provides exports of foreign capital markets by high-trusted companies and institutions, especially in global markets, aimed at boosting the integration of our capital markets, and, for the first time, a foreign company's stock markets have been processed on our stock markets. We think the Capital Market Board should co-operate much harder in the coming period, both in countries in the region and in emerging markets, within the framework of the work of the International Securities Organization (IOSCO). It is also one of the Council's plans for the next term to be led in implementing international standards adopted by international institutions, which are part of our country and contribute to its work. The framework specifically aims to implement joint projects with OECD and the World Bank. Dear lawmakers, a new market has finally been established this year that will be processed by the markets of capitals which companies with development and growth potential who cannot meet the standards of quotas in the IMKB (IMKB) but will export to provide funds from the capital markets. This year, SMEs have been processed in the Developmental Business Market, established as a separate market within the IMCB. Dear lawmakers, there is also a very serious study of the SEC Law, and our wish is that the Capital Market Law come to our great Assembly as soon as possible. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As I end my words, I wish you the best of the 2012 budget, and I salute you and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0034par0294	Thank you, Mr. Barber. Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu is the first speaker on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Osmaniye MP. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0035par0298	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Turkish nation's respected lawmakers; on behalf of the Nationalist Action Party Group on the budget and on its precise account account account account account, as part of the 2012 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2010 Central Management Accounting Bill. I salute your high council. In addition to the Ministry of Interior, the Law 5952 was established as Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, but its commitment to this organisation has been changed as Prime Minister by the change in 08/07/2011. The purpose of the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security is to develop strategy and policy on the fight against terrorism and to co-ordinate the relevant institutions and institutions. The organisation's Anti-Terror Co-ordination Council has brought mechanisms in the Turkish state, such as the Intelligence Evaluation Centre, to eliminate the scourge of terrorism that has caused great suffering over the past 30 years. All government programmes established by the AKP have stated that the state will be reduced as volume, the unnecessary institutions in central administrations will be eliminated, the structures that have similar functions will be merged. But we've seen in AKP governments over nine years that the swelling has been increased, not by the volume of the state, but by the lack of new institutions. For example, the Ministry of Security Department of Security has been committed to carry out its mission to conduct research, meetings on issues such as domestic security, foreign security, the fight against terrorism, and the function of co-ordinating these matters. The Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, which we have discussed about its budget today, instead of combining institutions that do so supposedly, it is a counterintegrated institution. In this framework, I can tell you that there was no reduction in institutions that existed before the AKP governments, doing similar or similar tasks, on the contrary, an increase. I can tell you about the Undersecretary in question that there is no information, no document, that any co-ordinating success in the fight against terrorism, or that the Law-predicted Intelligence Evaluation Centre has been operational. In addition, we were also surprised to see that an ambassador was appointed to the head of the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security rather than to the governors who had a knowledge of domestic security, who knew the fight against terrorism and the fighting institutions. AKP governments should really focus on the construction that aims at its service and the interests of the Turkish nation, rather than their intention to shape and staff the state in its unplanned, incoherent, trial and error or by hand. Mr. President, the respected members of the Turkish nation, another institution that I would like to express the views of the National Movement Party is the President of Afet and Emergency Management. In 2009, the General Public Defence Directorate, the Prime Minister's Emergency Management Office, the Office of Disaster Affairs, and the Ministry of Housing were shut down, and Prime Ministerial Disaster and Emergency Management, established in an effort to fight the disasters, was committed to Law No. 5902. During the meeting of this Law, all suggestions expressed by our group in parliament were unfortunately not accepted. This organization, which has been created regardless of its opinions and proposals on a matter that concerns all parts of society, such as the disaster of the disaster of the floods in Rize and Giresun, during the period of about three years, I leave it to all of you to appreciate the first aid, intervention, manipulation and co-ordination that the government has shown in these earthquakes in Elazıg, Kütahya-Simav and finally. Today, our country has become a disaster country because of policies imposed by the AKP's government, against science and engineering practices in the matter of planning, urbanisation, construction and control. In reality, the earthquake, the landslide, the avalanche, the rock fall, the flood, the unconscious choice of places, the zoning plans without engineering data, the low standard building production and control of engineering systems have transformed into human, social, and economic destruction. After every earthquake in our country, similar events began to happen again, as was the case with the earthquake, and the controversy focused on issues such as the quality of faults, size, central base, position, formation mechanism, focal depth, violence, and the distribution of violence. In addition to all these discussions, there have been significant problems and weaknesses in the issues of first aid, intervention, transfer, management and coordination. Over the years, the AKP has continued to produce rhetoric instead of fulfilling its responsibilities as a solution to these negatives, and despite all the reports that have been made, unfortunately, the country has not made any arrangements on planning, urbanisation, construction and structure control. In order to resolve these problems, the AKP Power must stop producing rhetoric, make the necessary changes in disaster, development, construction, urbanization, building control and housing laws quickly necessary to make our social, social, institutional infrastructure resistant to disasters. In addition, the President of Disaster and Emergency Management should prioritize the fight against disasters rather than finance crises caused by the Prime Minister's efficacy. As a result of each earthquake, it is important and important for us all to inform the public without causing fear or panic. However, the statements made by a minister in the last Van earthquake and the casualties caused by the earthquake have deeply upset all of us. The current political man who transformed the state and turned the state into AKP has emptied the interior of universities, public institutions, such as the earthquake's location, mechanisms, size, depth, and the extent of an American institution, the institutions that are expected to pass information on to the public have failed all parts of the community. The AKP governments are responsible for the situation these institutions are in. One of the things that needs to be done first is that the AFAD (AFAD) is to be removed from the post of Prime Minister, whose mission is co-ordinated, and to be committed immediately to an executive ministry, the Ministry of Interior, which is most appropriate. As seen in the earthquake in Van (Van), even in the event of an earthquake, 80 or 100 buildings collapse, the number of emergency response teams in our country has been seen to be small and inadequate. The number of search-and-rescue teams must be increased in the presidency of disaster and emergency management. As a result of the Van earthquake, the fact that only those who have no experience in damage detection have been assigned to the field under the title of an engineer has unfortunately caused them to detect unfettered damage, resulting in an earthquake that resulted in about 40 lives. For the solution to this problem, the head of the damage assessment agency must be established within the chairmanship of Afet and Emergency Management. In recent years, zoning is the basis of problems throughout the country, especially our major cities. In fact, over the past 20 years, it has been said that the construction rate in Istanbul has reached $500 billion and that the city council has caused over 5,000 development and division changes for people to create this rate. Under these plans for national, regional and local development and urban development and settlement strategies created by these plans, municipalities must be obliged to produce a specific number of plots each year, in cooperation with their municipal private administrations and the National Realty General Directorate, and the land and land range must be blocked. The special consumption tax, brought to certain services by the government, including our party for the purpose of fighting disasters and rebuilding after the 1999 Marmara quakes, was used in financing both mandatory and obtained by the AKP government during time and process, mostly by public finance. In order to combat disasters and ensure reconstruction, a certain percentage of the source obtained from the SVVP should be transferred to the funds previously removed by the existing government, the Finance Ministry, TÜBİTAK, the presidency of the Afet and Emergency Management and the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism should be used in projects aimed at combating disasters. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism must quickly change the Law on Housing 5543 by creating suitable financial tools for the infrastructure and top structure of rural settlements. IN recent years, the TOKI has become an institution that has strayed from its purpose, making tenders for state contractors and orant projects. TOKI should return to institutional philosophy, and in time and process, structures of geological risky areas that remain in urban settlements must be eliminated, and for citizens settled in these areas, a structure that produces social housing for the city's poor. I'd like to take into account our proposals, which I can't count on because of these and the lack of time here. I hereby salute the MPs of the great Turkish nation, wishing them good fortune in the budget.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0036par0325	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the second speaker is Iğdır MP Sinan Oğan. Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0037par0329	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to present the views of the Nationalist Action Party Group regarding the budgets of the esteemed MPs, the head of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency (TIKA), the President of the Foreign Turks and the President of the Religious Affairs Office in 2012. I hereby salute the High Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation. I ask God's mercy to our ambassador Mehmet Hilmi Dedeoglu, who passed away before presenting my views on the budget of our country's foreign administration with his foreign institutions and the foreign community. I also celebrate yesterday (December 10th) World Human Rights Day before I began speaking. I'd like to remind you once again that journalists, MPs and the heroic general of our army, and our party, Istanbul MP Engin Alan, are still being robbed of the right to human rights and the right to be elected. Mr. President, I'm going to have to stress one more thing. I invite the government from here to respect the will of the nation. Yesterday, when the presidential budget was being discussed, we asked questions because of our right to the Civil Code and because of the authority given to us because of the Parliament's work, and we waited for the government to answer that question. Let us answer our question, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, and I will answer your question in writing. You don't want to see opposition that way, we know that, we know that you love to rule the House by law, but we've come here with our nation's revolution, and you have to respect the will of our nation. The MPs are asking questions on behalf of the nation, and you have to answer them. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I repeat my question from yesterday. The President had a football diplomacy, an Armenian opening. In those days, the Azerbaijan flag was thrown away in Bursa, while the President of Armenia, Sarkisyan, was offered home-made specials. After a while, the President of Armenia, Sarkisyan, said in a speech: "We took Karabağ the Mountain, we occupied it, I refer it to Armenian youths to take the Mountain of Pain." I repeat my question: Is the President still behind this Armenian expansion? Dear MPs, I'd like to talk to you about our institution, whose former name is the chairman of Turkish Co-operation and Development Administration, which is now being translated into the presidency of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, but is now in its name only. This institution continues to be neutralized simultaneously, especially in Turkish geography as it expands its institutional spaces. We are aware of the government's discomfort with the word Turkish. Like us, our nation sees the effort you are making to remove the word Turk from the Constitution.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0038par0335	How do you know?
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0037par0336	The Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency is also emptying the word Turkish, just as the National Ministry of Education has emptyed its insides. Thus, the purpose of the establishment of the TİKA (TİKA) begins with the beginning of the process, including countries and communities in which Turkish language is spoken. Therefore, the TİKA must place the weight of its work here, valued lawmakers. We also see from his studies how far away the TİKA (TİKA) is from these geographys. TİKA is no longer an institution that supports Turkish republics, relatives. TİKA has turned to Arab geography, which the government feels is much closer to it than Turkish geography, towards Middle Eastern geography. You know, he's turned to geography, which he's passionate about being revolutionary. Today we see that TİKA (TİKA) operates primarily in Somalia, Palestine, Africa, while the Turkish Turks of Crimean, Iraqi Turks, Gagavuz Turks, the Turks of Uygur, the Turks of Bulgaria, the Turks of Western Thrace, the Turks. Don't get it wrong; let's not be around. We'll be around, of course. Our claim is great, Turkey is a great state, its geography, its mission geography is great, and we'll be around, but we won't forget one thing: the founding activities of TKA, the founding philosophy of Turkish republics, the Turkish relative communities. This will be our center of mass, our center of gravity, but we'll be interested in other places. It's now expressed, it's said, sir, that the Turkish republics have prospered. Thus, we are less interested in geography with Turkish republics. ▪ If you really feel that way, then you still don't understand the logic of technical assistance, you still don't. I'm a brother of yours who opened up the first foreign coordinator of TİKA (TİKA). I've worked for years as an honorable member of this honorable institution. Sadly, we see that TICA is in serious trouble with geography, which has recently served. Dear friends, TİKA is not a charity. In this sense, TİKA is not the Red Moon, it is not the humanitarian charities. YOU need to know the difference between this and that. I'll give you a simple example, we pulled it out of TICA operations in 2010. For example, in the northern part of Serbia, in the Vojvodina region, there was a help from TİKA at Novi Sad. Do you know what the content of this aid is? It's painted there. Dear friends, TIKA shouldn't be put into an institution that paints. The TİKA should not also be an institution in which it takes American dollars and Japanese computers and gives them away. In these geographys, the TİKA should not become an institution that will also donate the materials we have purchased from foreign countries for foreign currency. If you look at TİKA (TİKA) with this logic, then you have not yet understood the logic of TİKA (TİKA) and the logic of external aid. TİKA should also not be an institution to spend $50 million and build Baghdad Al Razi Hospital. THAT is not the work of TICA. In these geographys, the TİKA should do studies to prepare Turkey's infrastructure, to prepare the infrastructure of our exporter, to prepare the infrastructure of the development of these countries. But TIKA found the easy way out. With exchanges, dollars, euros, U.S.A., Europe, Japan -- who buys it with their money? With this nation's money, he's donating it to these countries. I ask you, dear lawmakers, who would give me an explanation for this? One of the activities of TİKA (TİKA) in 2010 is to make plastic surgery central in Syria. What, for God's sake, does the plastic surgery center in Syria have to do with technical aid? That plastic surgery center must have something to do with that revolutionary you played in Syria today. There is another issue, valued lawmakers: It appeared in the Zaman newspaper a few days ago. We've spent 500 billion dollars so far. Who spent it? TICA. Who spent it? AFAD. Who spent it? DSI. 500 billion dollars, you're spending this nation's money, it's an example of incompetence. You couldn't even open a well, and you made the headlines in the Time Journal. Won't this Parliament be responsible for those who spend 500 billion liras and can't even open a water well? What have you done with these incompetents? Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. President, what in the name of God is this incompetence?
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0039par0344	Others drill in Cyprus for oil and natural gas.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0037par0345	Yes, others are drilling under our noses in Cyprus, you three institutions are coming together, you're getting together, you can't even open a well, and you're spending 500 billion dollars on this nation's money. So, unfortunately, the TİKA has been displaying an example of ineptitude recently. We see that recent assistance to Palestine has increased dramatically. Let me put it this way: Palestine is the balance of our Ottomans. Palestine is important to us, but what the TİKA (TİKA) must do is different. TİKA is not the institution to build hospitals in Palestine. Let Redbeard do it, let the Ministry of Health do it, let another organization do it. TİKA is a development agency. You have to understand that, you have to understand that. But what's TIKA doing? He goes there, builds hospitals.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0040par0347	What's he gonna do?
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0037par0348	What's he doing? You'll help him up.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0040par0349	Tell him what to do to get him up.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0037par0350	TIKA is not an organization that delivers candy.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0040par0351	What's he gonna do?
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0037par0352	You don't understand, that's the problem. TIKA will teach him how to make candy. For the first time, the TİKA also began to provide help in the domestic community. You're wondering what he's done, and I'll tell you what he's done. For God's sake, is TİKA an institution that distributes roasting?
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0040par0353	Tell him what to do.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0037par0354	TICA is not an institution that distributes roasting.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0040par0355	Say something concrete!
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0041par0356	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0037par0357	Mr. President, will you step in?
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0041par0358	Please don't interfere.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0042par0359	Say something concrete.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0037par0360	Friends, you will learn the logic of foreign aid.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0042par0361	What was done in their time?
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0043par0362	Please, Congressman, please...
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0037par0363	That's what they do in Japan, that's what they do in Denmark. You'll do what other countries' foreign aid agencies do. Now, a new administration has come to work in TİKA (TİKA) and this new administration has taken all experienced personnel and put them aside. Why? To make room for more allies. You erase the institution's memory, you take the experienced officers, you put them aside, you spend 500 billion dollars in three months, and you can't even open a well like fish out of water. That's why you're not going into the peppermint, lemon business. [[We couldn't understand the sound of the AK PARTY.]] He who understands understands what I'm saying. Mint, you're not getting into lemon business. You will not make the TİKA (TİKA) an institution which will give resources to the allies of the NGOs. With this nation's money, you can't renovate the TİKA dwelling in Bilkent, with about $100 billion -- I'm calling it old money -- you can't redesign, you can't squander the money of this nation, you can't waste it. TİKA is also an institution that spends money on covered funds, valued lawmakers. This needs to be paid for. On what grounds has TİKA been able to use money from covered funds? Where did he spend his money on covered funds, TİKA? You'll have to answer for that, too. For what purpose does TİKA provide the costs of the IHH (TİKA), which has led nine of our citizens into treason and violence and aimed at Israel's bullets? Why is TİKA paying for the lighthouse? You'll have to pay for that. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0044par0370	Don't tell me you're a lighthouse, they'll let you in too, Sinan!
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0037par0371	Dear lawmakers, our nation sees everything. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0045par0373	You're going to the Turkish republics.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0037par0374	It's not the Turkish republics, it's the Turkish republics. You'll use it correctly, you'll learn and come back.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0046par0376	He's speaking American.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0047par0377	Congressmans, please... Mr. Oğan, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0048par0379	I also recommend to our president of the Turkish and related communities abroad that our presidency of foreign Turks and relatives abroad is not the presidency of Turkish abroad. How can you not call on the Turkish Federation, the most fundamental, hugging institution that has been there for many years in Germany on the good day, on the bad day of all Turks? You will hold a meeting in Germany about the 50th year of migration, but you will not call the Turkish Federation. Who are you going to call? Our fellow citizens from abroad.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0049par0380	It's our business!
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0048par0381	You can't separate citizens like this. It is called the President of the Foreign Turks, not the president of the Turkish non-nurse. Dear lawmakers, our President of Religious Affairs must also be taken out of politics in this sense. Since I'm at the end of my time, I'd just like to say this: Any institution in Turkey that you infect with politics, don't infect it, don't infect it. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Religion is our share of the wealth. Please don't bring politics into our chairmanship of Religious Affairs. I salute all of you, and I'm afraid we're going to vote no because we don't qualify for both the budget of the president of the foreign Turks, the president of the TİKA, and the president of the Diet.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0050par0387	What else can you do?
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0051par0388	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. The third speaker on behalf of the National Movement Party Group is Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0052par0392	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budgets of the Treasury Undersecretary of 2012, Capital Market Board, Banking Editing and Control Agency. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, government programmes and budgets are the most important political documents that determine the natural future of countries, and in all developed countries, these documents are subject to two methods of analysis and, as a result, a replication. The first method of analysis is to address changes in the world, the development of countries, demand and resource priorities, and from there go to technological and scientific integration. In the second method of analysis, these resources and demands, problems, are subject to a series of priorities. Naturally, in the application of these, and in the synthesis of these, they're all made into a holistic strategic goal. That strategic goal is the country's programme and budget and all its economic, social plans. My dear friends, all identified targets must be clear and priority. If you get clear here and establish your priorities correctly, by providing social confidence, stability, and reconciliation in that country, you can make your budget's goals run your way, you can run the whole community towards that goal, you can run it. My dear friends, when we look at all the budgets over the past ten years and the budgets we've evaluated here from the last legislature to today's legislature, we also see that the plan, which has been made by the government every time, has been revised, even in the middle of the year, and at the end of the year, there are negative deviations from almost 100 per cent of all initial goals.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0053par0397	It was revised before the budget talks were over.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0052par0398	My dear friends, we see that the 2012 budget we're interviewing lacks the analysis and synthesis that I just mentioned. Most importantly, there have been no necessary measures in this budget, and that flexibility has not been shown, in any case, in the face of any future economic negativity. So we are skeptical as a party that this budget will provide social trust and development as of today. On the other hand, we see that the budget -- as in last year's budgets -- has not met the performance-based budgeting criteria for law provisions 5018. Today, the global economy clearly separates and demonstrates the overall economic and financial policies of developed and developing countries. Financial policies push us into a process of financial instability, which naturally triggers macroeconomic imbalances as a result of this significant dissolution. So, despite the fact that the Turkish economy has been expressed in macroeconomic indicators in such a process, unfortunately, it also shows a very fragile structure. Economic policy investments, production and development are not created in a way that supports investments, production and development, while hot money flows are being diverted by a number of sources that come with foreign debt, with short-term capital currents, and therefore, the situation is routinely manageable. The main thing is that businesses, which are the lifeblood of the economy, are facing the harsh environment of global competition, and on the other hand, suffering from the loss of the government's incentives and support. I'd like to share with you a data from the Turkish Statistical Agency, valued lawmakers. According to income and living conditions, the share of 20 percent of the richest income in Turkey is 47.6% and the share of the poorest 20 percent is 5.6%. In the budget presentation on revenue distribution, some of the correct figures were mentioned here. This is the real painting of another institution of our government. While domestic demand can be created by debt, there is still uncertainty as to how to repay this debt in private businesses and households, as to how to return it at some point, as to how to repay it during any financial turmoil, and how to meet the risks. Dear lawmakers finance growth in an import system based on low numbers from 2003 to today. When we look at the subsidiaries of growth, we see more import growth. We see that as a result of this, the production and employment of imported countries is also increasing, and this is an indirect result. It's a fact and structure disorder that is created by hormonal or virtual growth, as is generally said among the public. After all, you can increase the GDP over low currency, you can raise the national income per person to 10,000 dollars, but unfortunately, when we look at the side that reflects on the public and the citizens, the painting turns out to be different. Unfortunately, this said economic growth, as a result, has not been transformed into an economic development. These two are different concepts. I'm afraid the relationship between growth and development has not dried properly and properly. In the country, as a result, we're also dealing with a picture of income balance disorder, internal and external debt growth, which I've just stated. What's the big deal? This is the result of importing foreign trade and current transaction deficits, and these gaps now reach unsustainable dimensions. Dear lawmakers, our country has been on a current course of around $2 billion since the year 2000. But after 2002, it's a huge leap, which is open, when we look at it as of this quarter of 2011, or when we evaluate it based on expectations polls by official institutions such as the Central Bank, it faces an open expectance of around 75-80 billion dollars. It's a great improvement and a great leap. The overall belief in the economic world is that this current deficit now exceeds 5 per cent of the unofficial national estate, which now shows us that alarm bells, alarm bells, danger bells are ringing. When we look at Turkey, we are faced with an open current problem in Turkey, which is now nearly 10 per cent of our illegal national product. That means that in the future, a great crisis awaits Turkey. And it's not open as long as there's money available, as long as there's currency. What can it be? It can be said, it can be continued. But when we look at the finance and quality of the current deficit, we're dealing with some problems there. Instead of long-term debt and direct capital investments, there's more central bank reserves, some short-term capital movements, portfolio investments, in other words, and even more interestingly, what analysts haven't been able to figure out in the last few years, probably a little bit deeper than the central bank sources, is a net failure to find. It's now being financed by a flat-out defective pen. Dear lawmakers, some interested people today are talking about Turkey's export records. No one puts imports on the table and does serious analysis. We're importing almost $190 billion for $100 billion exports, and a big number is getting to a point where it's going to be a problem. The result is a terrible foreign trade deficit, and naturally, it's a business deficit. I think that if it's going to be an element that separates us from a global crisis in the future, that's going to be some sort of fixation of the imbalance and structural disorder between export-imports. And when we look at portfolio investments in that sense, there's a problem, precious MPs. There's been a serious decline in the last six and a half months. Especially after August 2011, we see an almost knife-cut portfolio investment, and there's over 29 billion setbacks. As of last semester, it looks like it's down to less than $100 billion. Members of parliament, as the National Movement Party, we established the Global Crisis Watch and Evaluation Commission in 2008, and here, under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our commission brought proposals and measures to both economic management and government officials very sincerely and sincerely. But at that time, the officials of the economic management and ruling party accused us of being crisis-tellers, but we see that, interestingly enough, both the political staff responsible for economic management and the leadership of the party, the political staff responsible for the ruling party, are now involved in the definitions they blame us for in the past, and negative images are drawn for 2012, one after the other, but no one is talking about the real measures and the impacts of these measures that need to be taken. Since these measures are inadequate, warnings about inflation are coming in these days, and even those warnings are necessary to express in various documents of the Central Bank. In this sense, the government seems to have strayed from its goal of inflation by 100 per cent. When we look back, from 1923 to 2002, the lawmakers, Turkey, in some seventy-nine years, have made an external debt of about 130 billion dollars, our foreign debt supply is that much, but when we come from that day, as of the second quarter of 2011, the AKP governments have added a $180 billion debt with great success, and that debt is about $310 billion. But you can pass by saying that debt is the whip of debt that needs attention -- not that -- that debt has now gone from public sector to private sector -- and this loan by private sector has increased both in short-term rates and, more interestingly, I'd like to point out, these loans are being made by non-fiscal organizations. What does that mean? The real business is now in debt. A reason behind the real sector's debt is that due to the lack of domestic production and the lack of proper macroeconomic conditions in these matters by the government, our entrepreneur now has to resort to external resources to avoid losing both business and self-inflicted capital. That's what this means. Dear lawmakers, the Banking Editorial and Control Board and the Capital Market Board, which we meet today, as well as its activities, are, from time to time, the institutions that are justifiably boastful to government officials. These are high-profile institutions, but when we look back, these institutions are some of the institutions formed by a series of structural reforms in 2001. I'm specifically referring to the BDDK. At that time, the SEC was also able to present and re-enact itself as a result of the Banking Sector Reconstruction Programme, which was announced in May 2001. Dear lawmakers, analysis of banking can also be done with the shortage and abundance of branches. Of course, there's an assessment like that, but you have to look at other ratios when you're considering the financial sector. I mean, who do these banks give credit to? How much does Esnafa lend to SME, to those in need, to which part of the real sector? You have to look at these right. I'd also like to talk to you about this whole sinking bank thing that's been said here all the time. Look, BDDK isn't an institution founded in 2005, it's a valued lawmakers. There may be some lawmakers who have suffered memory loss, but this institution has contributed to our separation from the world in the financial sector, which was built since 2001 during the 57th government, including the National Movement Party. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He says it's better to say the good things, and I hope the budget is good.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit01spe0054par0417	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0054par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Sixth Session of the Thirty-threeth Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law for 2012 and with the Central Management Act for 2010. The commission and the government are in place. Now we'll continue the fourth round of talks, but Mr. TülEST had a request for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0055par0008	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, we're negotiating the 2012 budget, not the republican historical budget. Republic history and only the descendants of deserters can account for it, who else could it be? If the 1923 budget has $10 in government money, the remaining debt from the Ottomans is 70 liras, 7 times the budget. In their absence, they built Sumerbank, Etibank, and built railways, and created a modern republic. Let's pray, let's thank them, let's thank them. Let's discuss the 2012 budget. If he wants to deal with the republican period that takes every stand at once, people will be severely provoked and sometimes uncool words can slip out of his mouth. I say we drop it and discuss the 2012 budget. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0056par0011	But please say two words about the word, Mr. Tütin. I mean, it's not a word to say here. Please, your friend Congressman didn't apologize, at least you should apologize. That's greatness, that's virtue.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0057par0012	He took it back.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0058par0013	Mr. President has taken back his word.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0056par0014	Just a second, Mr. Lawmakers... Please, Mr. Tanal, sit down. This is the Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0059par0016	Thank you. My dear friend, our esteemed congressman says you've taken it back. So, I'm a republican...
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0056par0018	Mr. Slim, copy that. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0059par0020	Wait a minute, wait a minute... wait a minute, Mr. President, wait a minute... I'm sorry if I said the wrong thing about republican history. Let him say it, and I'll leave immediately and apologize for Engin Altay, I promise.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0060par0022	No, sir, no.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0061par0023	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0062par0024	Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0061par0026	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the history of the republic is not in anyone's monopoly. We're all children of the Republic. (AC PARTY) And a political party cannot monopolize the republic, and unfortunately, in the 2011 election declaration, we founded the Republic and gave the sovereignty to the nation. The expression is clear. Friends, give up this: we are all children of the republic. We don't have a problem with the Republic, but unfortunately the Republic has a problem with the Republican People's Party, and now we have to get out of here. We're doing a comparison as we speak here, and we're saying that this, this, has happened in these dates as much as this, has happened in our time. We have no problem with the Ottomans or the Republic or the present, and such statements have never been used in this House, perhaps by intelligent satires.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0062par0029	Thank you, Mr. Ünal. [[Continue]] [[Continue]] O) SALIVITY COMMUNITY [[Continue]] Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0063par0063	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. I don't have a problem with the Republic, I said that in comparison. I respect the Republic, especially the republic that is crowned with democracy. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, democracy's only insurance is again and necessarily democracy. The rule of law in democracy is the rule of law if the law is passed through a filter of justice and the state through a fair legal filter. Justice is the rule of law. The identity of the law, the rule of justice, is universal, doesn't change for countries. Law is corporate justice. Everything the state touches in democracy must be turned into law. If the state gains the rule of law in a very low-law government formula, it won't become a giant, but it'll be a real state. As the state respects the law, law gains power as much as it frees people. In democracies, the nation's own or its representatives organise the law, executes it, and the judiciary controls it. The judgment that conducts the inspection must be independent and impartial. No one in the law can judge themselves. Independent and impartial justice is the most important guarantee of law and executive separation. In the Turkish tradition, the independence of the judiciary has always been a subject of debate. In fact, many centuries ago, Serasker Bedrettin said that the Court should be independent and the judgment should be legal. Mr. President, the lawmakers, unfortunately, have been involved in politics or political, and have invented 367 freaks in the presidential election, which suggests that they weigh justice on the scale of politics. A Supreme Court Attorney who has filed a lawsuit to close the newspaper clippings to the ruling party, the Constitutional judiciary, which violates its Constitution, has fallen to the heart of politics. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, in our country affected by land Europe and France in particular, there is a state-based republical regime, the state is ready and present everywhere. It's the state that makes law in these countries. That's why the law is always on the side of the state, the law is on the side, so there's a distinction between private law and public law. There's a law-enforcement, state-of-the-art, state-of-the-art constitution where the guardian state comes down from the top. It is not possible, however, to be limited by this constitution. No matter what happens, law and justice must never be sacrificed to the government for any reason. For these reasons, the EC PARTY government is building a system of justice that is reassuring, and a modern and complete democracy based on human rights, which believes in the rule of law. Mr. President, lawmakers, there are now judges in Turkey, who distribute the cheapest, fastest justice to the remotest and most remote corners of Turkey, who take the law for a reference to the law, not politics on their platforms, to the law and the Constitution, to the general principles of the law, to the rules of the ECHR, to the neutral, fully independent, to the court, to the rule of law, to leave their ideology on the edge of the court. There is no higher constitutional judge in Turkey who greets the coupters, gets a briefing, gets stuck between our Vicdan and our wallet. He says, "There is no higher constitution judge who violates his own Constitution." There is no longer a Supreme Court judge in Turkey who has fallen to the center of politics in the presidential election, signing 367 freaks. Turkey now has law, justice, full independent and impartial judgment. Turkey now has the power of a nation that defies the will of the nation, preventing politics from being done with citizens, pressuring civil will, all sorts of apopolitic understandings, civil postalists, contractors, and challenges. Turkey has changed now. Turkey is now in control of the... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Good luck with that.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0064par0074	Thank you, Mr. Can. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the third speaker is Fehmi Cubic, Bolu MP. Here you go, Mr. Cube.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0065par0078	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget for the 2012 fiscal year budget of the Criminal Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes of the Prisons. I hereby salute your high council. Today's understanding of execution is built on the basis of the rehabilitation and reintegration of criminals, while also important in the removal and support of the victim as part of self-restraint justice. In this case, the Ministry of Justice has been working intensively towards the education and rehabilitation of criminals in criminal execution institutions and supervised liberalisation and aid-based branch offices. As of today, 371 criminal execution institutions have a total of 127,510 people, with 37,000 staff in execution services. In this context, 68 criminal execution institutions have been served in accordance with the modern idea of execution in the last ten years. In addition, from 2012 to 2016, 24 criminal execution institutions will be in service. The new budget law also includes the highest number of ring vehicles needed in recent years. In the last two years, 11,255 personnel have been taken in order to effectively carry out the studies and improvements conducted in criminal execution institutions, and about 6,000 personnel will be taken in the first half of 2012. Dear lawmakers have also been focused on education as well as on the competencies of the number of staff, and in the last five years 50,000 staff members have also been scheduled to train some 10,000 staff members in 2012. The most important tool in preventing recrimination and reintegration is education and improvement. In 2010 alone, a total of 30,850 were educated from elementary to university level, and numerous trials were taken in various areas from KPSS to TUS. In addition to these activities carried out as part of rehabilitation, civil society has benefited from support, and in 2010 there have been various activities in sports, social, cultural, business and professions with 24 NGOs. As part of the execution services conducted in criminal execution institutions, several protocols have been signed with many institutions and organisations, particularly our ministries; Sincan, Silivri, Maltepe penal institutions have opened neighborhood clinics within the campuses; other penal institutions have been assigned to the family medicine system, including doctors and dentists. In order to protect and improve the profession and arts of convicted and imprisoned persons, or learn a trade and art, there are 216 workhouse directorships at the prison and detention institution in order to create value for addition to the country's economy, and to make prisoners and prisoners feel valuable. On average, 6,426 prisoners per year are permanently insured and 14.012 convicts are part-time insured. International projects are being valued for the development of execution services, and three separate projects have been conducted with a budget of 9,300,000 euros as of 2010. Again, a project with a budget of 3,750,000 euros for children will begin in 2012 and in 2012. Of course, by the way, in relation to this, the T-type prison in Bolu County, which is my constituency, I hope will be finished on June 20, 2012. On this occasion, of course, as this transport process is completed in 2012, with the satisfaction of sharing it with both our beloved nation and with our Bolulu residents, the current prison, the abandoned prison will hopefully be moved, and we now have a justice building with projects drawn within our Ministry of Justice, which will begin in the future, in accordance with the authentic, cultural and historical fabric of Bolu, as well as the construction of the new court of justice. On this occasion, I would like your attention as a result of the ten-day incarceration of property that once entered Butler Prison. So on this occasion, I sincerely salute the unity and unity of this nation, the law of brotherhood, and the growth of hopes for the people of this country, all of you, again and again.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0066par0093	Thank you, Mr. Cube. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the fourth speaker is Ali Ashlık, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Ashy.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0067par0097	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Turkish Justice Academy. In many areas, we have made reforms and improvements with understanding. We took the courthouses from the sunless basements and carried them to the palaces of justice. We've renewed a lot of fundamental laws that can't meet society's needs, made them respond to needs. In addition to the study of physical judicial reform, we have adopted the Law of the Turkish Justice Academy, which has been spoken for years to minimise problems stemming from enforcers, but cannot be implemented. On 23/7/2003, we established the Justice Academy, which was administrative, financial and scientific autonomy by Law 4954. Dear lawmakers, good legislation is not enough, good implementation is needed. A bad law can result in good results, as well as good executions can. A good law can result in bad practices. So the human element is more important than any other element. Turkey's Justice Academy was established for the more efficient work of the human element; its 25,424 square metres are closed, and is set up in 135 square meters in the Ethics Extreme area, an open area of 109,587 square metres. In this framework, 18,211 have passed through education since it was established. 278 judges and prosecutors have studied foreign languages according to agreement with different universities. Turkey's Justice Academy has increased the number of pre-service and internal training studies. International education, foreign language learning and academic careers have been opened for judicial members. These studies have enabled members of the judiciary to take part in international institutions and increase their numbers day by day. Mr. President, the high-ranking justice officers who are raised at the Turkish Academy of Justice will not sign any decision that will block the nation, but will not submit to any pressure that will harm the nation, so they will carry out their conscience on behalf of the nation. With other improvements, it is clear that members of the Justice Academy will contribute to strengthening the nation's trust in justice. When all the improvements we've been able to make come to life, all the parts of society will be able to say, "Here's my judgment." Honourable lawmakers decide on behalf of the Turkish nation when judges make decisions. But in the processes before us, it has often been decided on behalf of the state, and our judges have interrupted the nation in many ways because they cannot read the world correctly. If the privatisations of the late Ozal hadn't been cut off to the supreme judge today, Turkey would have no external debt, maybe unemployment would have been zero. For him, education in the judiciary is very important. I want to thank all the friends who passed this law in 2003, and we have the President of the Academy of Justice here. And in the future, I demand that they raise people who read the world correctly, address the conscience of society, embrace the conscience of society, respect our House. Good luck with that.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0068par0105	Thank you, Mr. Ashy. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the fifth speaker is Yusuf Başer, Yozgat MP. Here you go, Mr. Basher.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0069par0109	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. On this occasion, I salute you all. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors is a constitutional institution founded on the basis of the independence, neutrality and judicial guarantee of the courts. Judges and prosecutors, held in Article 159 of the Constitution, were not fully independent and neutral in the past. There were criticisms from both the judicial community and scientific circles regarding the previous structure and functioning of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors: They're objective, objective and transparent, With no private budget and no secretaries, First degree judges and prosecutors and lawyers are not represented in HSYK, The lack of an internal objection system against the board's decisions and the total lack of judicial supervision, The review board responsible for the audit of judges and prosecutors and inspectors are bound by the Minister of Justice, The Minister and the Undersecretary's active in the Council, the absence of the Undersecretary's meetings, Of the members of the Council's Supreme Court and the General Assembly, they have elected members of their own, the appointment of the President, and the number of members is few. So there was an external, self-sustaining, self-sustaining system that gave birth to each other. There was an insensitive, democratic legitimacy basis for the demands and opinions of judges and prosecutors, where they made criminal and legal procedures and made decisions. Mr. President, as valued lawmakers, as the EC PARTI, we have carried these things out with our nation's confidence that the way for judicial independence, neutrality, judicial guarantees and the strengthening of the legal state in Turkey requires rational changes to the structure of the Judges Prosecutors' Supreme Council and Constitutional Court. With a public vote on September 12th, the Supreme Council of Judges has been established on democratic legitimacy, transparency and broad-based structure. Judges are represented by first-degree judges and prosecutors and lawyers on the Supreme Council of Prosecutors. In itself, the closed system has been altered, the ability to represent the judiciary has been increased. Judges have been adopted by the Supreme Council of Prosecutors to work as a general council and as three apartments, and its own secretary has been transferred to its own independent budget. That alone has increased the guarantee of the independence of judges and prosecutors. [Cheers and applause from CHP rows!] You're on the road to judgment against decision-making from the profession. The review board for the audit of judges and prosecutors has been given to the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors from the Minister of Justice. The Council, which has been created in accordance with democratic requirements and standards, has become more sensitive to the expectations, problems, and needs of the vast base that it comes from within. This is also one of the greatest guarantees of the independence of the judge in terms of the division of forces. Having the minister and the undersecretary on the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors will have no effect on a 22-member panel that will eliminate independence. In the past year's practice, it should be considered a separate democratic courtesy that the undersecretary attends the general council meetings several times, while the Minister has not attended any meetings except the first meeting. [Cheers and applause from CHP rows!] We believe that the collateral given to the judges and prosecutors is the guarantee of 74 million people who are actually seeking justice in front of them. Politics over the judiciary and trying to wear them down in this way is not the political party that's been dealt with, but rather the weariness of the independent and neutral Turkish judiciary. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, the parties who don't honor the public's favours, strongly accuse the members of the Supreme Court of Judges and the members of the Supreme Court of Judges elected by 11,000 judges and prosecutors, through the EC PARTI, who have come to power at every election by public courtesy. You're going to think that it's a democracy for scientists to choose their own presidents, and then you're going to stand up to judges and prosecutors and members of the Supreme Court who have chosen 11,000 judges and prosecutors of their own free will. As an AK PARTY, there is no staffing in our literature. [Cheers and applause from CHP rows!] Dear President, dear lawmakers, our main objective as AK PARTY is to be independent of the people who are not at anyone's disposal, who have adopted the fundamental principles of law, the universal rules of law, and the rule of law. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...unconnected is the creation of a judgment that no one else has at their disposal. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0070par0135	Thank you, Mr. Basher. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the 6th speaker is Feyzullah Bayaklik, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Sabre.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0071par0139	Mr. President, honored members, I salute you with love and respect. Actually, I've prepared a speech, but I don't want to talk about my speech. You know why? We're a good driver. From our prime minister to our ministers, from our deputies to our mayors, we're driving a really nice car. When we're driving, we're always looking forward, looking forward.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0072par0141	4x4?
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0071par0142	No matter what happens, it doesn't matter to us, it matters to you.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0073par0143	Porsche, Porsche!
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0071par0144	Yeah, we're always looking forward, but sometimes when we look in the rearview mirror, what we see is, unfortunately, nothing good.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0074par0145	You're imagining things.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0071par0146	We say to the one next to us, or how awful these things look from behind. Let's look in the rearview mirror, 'cause we're gonna have to keep an eye on the back. And when we look, we see your ruins. It's not our fault! [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Guys, look, you know what I'd really like? I'd like some very good competitors. Competitives make you stronger. Wrestlers know very well, the stronger you wrestle, the more masterful you are, but unfortunately there are no rivals. He can't even get away with it. And when he doesn't show up, what do we do? And this time, we're gonna have to...
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0075par0150	Are there cracks coming out?
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0071par0151	No, sir. We return to our own customs and customs, where we look up to our prophet, who says: "The two moments are deceived by what is equal to each other. The two centuries are deceived by the same. The two days that are equal are deceived. Don't feel sorry for him. Now I'll compare them to ourselves when I make comparisons, because there is trouble compared to you.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0075par0154	You've grown so much! You've got a lot of potential!
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0071par0155	Dear friends, look, you've never gathered a prime minister, a minister's trustees, governors...
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0076par0156	You look this way, why don't you...
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0071par0157	No, no, sir, I want to tell you.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0077par0158	You tell yourself, forget it!
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0071par0159	Friends, we don't want to sit in your positions, but go street by street, street by street, village by village, town by town...
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0078par0161	Gather the votes for the AKP!
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0079par0162	You want a governor who delivers coal in a coal truck!
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0071par0163	Find the poor there, the poor, the unemployed, the artists, the job seekers, and take care of their troubles. Right now, our trustees, our governorships, friends, are busy opening vocational courses, educating people, training them themselves. What a beautiful thing. A lot has changed in Turkey. You, of course, don't notice a lot of things. That's normal, too. It's normal because you're always looking back, and if you look ahead, you'll see us, and if you look ahead, you'll see us.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0080par0165	We're looking to the left, we're looking to the left!
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0071par0166	Watch where you're going, please! At least for example, so that you can get over 25 percent in the 2050s, 2060s, at least in the 2050s. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) I mean it sincerely. Look, our Prime Minister has targeted 2023. Lonely friends, I'm going to look in the rearview mirror. I was the mayor. We had a mayor in the capital, and he pointed out 2050. Do you know why? Friends, we planned, we programmed, we will finish the water issue of Istanbul at 2050. But a man came to Istanbul in 94, and now he's your Prime Minister. Watch him closely. Friends... (AK PARTY) Yeah, he's a real man. Not 2050, but 1995. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Friends, we do very good things in Turkey. We may have flaws, we may have flaws. Go see the governors, the governors, now.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0081par0170	He's handing out refrigerators, your governorships!
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0071par0171	Take a look at the safety now. See how the police work there, how the people go, when they go to safety, without fear, and when they go, they come back very comfortably. Take a look around.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0082par0173	Please...
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0071par0174	Me, my friends, to power... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But at least...
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0082par0177	Thank you, Mr. Coast Guard.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0071par0179	Our police, our governorships, our trustees...
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0082par0181	Mr. Sable, please...
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0083par0182	Call Salim Beslim!
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0084par0183	Salim Good, Salim Good! Salim is coming.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0085par0184	Our Coast Guard is working very well. You know why?
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0083par0185	Why? Why?
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0086par0186	Mr. Sabuk, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0087par0187	Salim is coming, Salim is coming!
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0083par0188	Tell us, tell us, we're listening. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0086par0189	Mr. Sable, please...
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0087par0190	Mr. President, Directors to the post!
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0086par0191	What am I supposed to do? Every congressman does it. I mean, I told you.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0087par0192	Call the head of operations.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0088par0193	Tell me, tell me. Go ahead.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0087par0194	He's here, he's here, Salim's here.
tbmm-2011-12-10sit02spe0089par0195	Congressmans, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
