tbmm-2011-10-25sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before that, I would like to offer my condolences on behalf of our nation, on behalf of the great Assembly, to the relatives of the deceased, to the wounded, to the immediate healing of the wounded, to say that our entire country was overwhelmed by a Van Ercish-based earthquake. Members of parliament, before we begin the talks, we must take a closed session session to be read according to Article 71 of the Interior Charter, which was held in the 10th session of October 20, 2011. Therefore, I'd like to ask the MPs and those who may be present at the General Assembly Hall to clear the hall except for sworn stenographers and sworn officers. After the summary of the report is read, the open session will be held and talks will continue. I'd like to ask your supervisors to assist in this matter and inform the presidency after the hall is cleared. We're going to closed session.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0001par0001	I am opening the Third Session of the 11th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly after the closed session. Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalaaj has an off-the-top request for the earthquake, which is the centre of the Van Province, Ercish district, according to Article 59 of the Interior Charter. I'll grant this request before it's on the agenda. After the Minister's statement, I will make a promise to political party groups at their request and to one of the non-group lawmakers. The deadlines are 20 minutes for the government, ten for political party groups, and five for the non-group MP. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0002par0010	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We had a major earthquake as Turkey. I'm telling all of us to get well soon. Of course, our nation became one. In great solidarity, the earthquake continues to heal its wounds in great sensitivity. Such times are essentially very special times for our nation. And I have made a promise to inform the Grand Assembly of this great disaster and later work. I salute you all again. Dear MPs, as you know, last Sunday - 23/10/2011 -- between 1:45 p.m. and 13.55 p.m., two important, violent earthquakes occurred in our province of Van. The magnitude of the earthquake is 7.2, and there are continuing aftershocks. The impact and damage of the earthquake were seen in Ercish and some villages. Six multi-story buildings in the center of Van have been completely destroyed and destroyed, 80 buildings in our Ercish district have been completely destroyed, and 1,362 homes, schools and so on in our 19 villages have been destroyed. There's been 370 casualties so far. I ask God's mercy for our dead. My condolences to all our citizens, to all of us. The loss of life occurred in Erciş, 122, in Van's central and villages. The total number of wounded is 1,300. Some of them have been treated standing up, and some of them are still being treated. Currently in hospitals, Van Education and Research Hospital is receiving 273 injured treatments in 181 wounded and Van Naha districts. In general, I'm going to give you a number of information about the consequences, both as damage and, of course, as damage to our human being. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, of course, had happened on Sunday, as you know, shortly after we received the news, there was a disaster emergency coordination meeting in the Prime Minister's office under my leadership. All our ministries and institutions have once again been reminded of their duties there, and rash decisions have been made and immediately implemented. AFAD, Afet and Emergency Chiefs are co-ordinating in Ankara, and we immediately moved with some of our fellow ministers from Ankara to Van. On that day, search and rescue teams throughout Turkey were activated in the same way and at the first moment from our Prime Minister Istanbul. You know, in disaster situations like this, especially when this is a massive earthquake, the first thing that's important is that search and rescue work is carried out as fast as possible. Work teams with this kind of expertise in the public or private or civil society in all Turkey, first from nearby provinces, have been directed to Van. In parallel with this, the health system has been immediately started there, and very comprehensive work for the injured has been launched immediately. We quickly arrived with our Prime Minister, saw the work in place, negotiated with our citizens. And then we went back to Van, and the instructions were given, and the night was 03. More wounded relatives and injured people were taken care of in the hospital until 00. During this process, our Minister of Interior and Minister of Development and Governor of Ağrı and I, the Minister of Health, the Minister of Urbanism and the Van Governor, conducted their work together. I'd like to be more specific about the search and rescue efforts. That is, of course, to be thankful, Turkey has a huge savings in this regard. Yes, it's been created by painful experience, but the world's almost most experienced teams are in Turkey. In fact, the air bridge was set up immediately, from all our provinces, Ankara, Istanbul, İzmir, wherever there is a team in this matter, the fastest way for all of them to be delivered first to Van Τa, then to Ercish and our central villages, and there, in fact, helicopters were ready at Van Airport, the Turkish Armed Forces, the Ministry of Health, and of course, the ambulance helicopters. The crime scene was reached very quickly. So I can tell you that all our savings from all over Turkey -- about depression, about search and rescue and other services -- are now in Van. There are about 3,000 search and rescue personnel here as personnel. There's always two or three groups at the head of every wreck. There's no unreachable debris, no village. In all the buildings, some of the debris work has been completed. For example, Van is currently in three buildings in the center, and he's finished three. Our villages are completely finished with the work of debris. It continues only in Ercish, where it continues day and night, no gaps. Here, there's no shortage of machinery, cranes, et cetera. Especially from here, we thank our citizens very much for their private enterprise. Each man has mobilized his own crane or means of use from the surrounding provinces. It's worth mentioning here in private. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are, of course, the most comprehensive and successful work that's been done on them. And from the surrounding cities He reinforced them with a mighty support. Our two ambulance planes arrived immediately, which our health minister himself arrived with an airplane from Erzincan. We'll have seven ambulance helicopters ready right there. The Turkish Armed Forces helicopters have been ready there and all the wounded from Ercish have been transported by helicopters and ambulances. There are 210 ambulances, and in particular, the newly opened training and research hospital in the Van. Because there is a certain damage to the hospital in Erjish. We've had some cracks in one or two of our hospitals in Van, but the big hospital, the new hospital, has actually been the most important service. In the same way, of course, airplanes, for example, were brought to Ankara with 37 wounded in the first evening, and were quickly delivered to major hospitals, environmental hospitals. Quickly, of course, damage assessments are being made, first public buildings and then citizens' buildings that are inhospitable. For example, only 10 apartments have collapsed in Van, but there are heavily damaged buildings that cannot be inhabited, and some of our schools have damage again. For example, there's some damage to public buildings, including the police department building, at Van's headquarters. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, of course, have set up an air bridge -- the top of the line -- and other materials. So far, Van, Ercish and about 15,000 tents have reached our villages. Of course, as it is known from the tent, the Red moon is in charge. It is always based on the Red One to carry out this service. By tomorrow morning, the number of tents will reach 25,000. So all the time, wherever there is in Turkey -- get angry or other institutions -- the tents, the planes -- are being delivered there. But still, our citizens have had more demands for the tent, and there's been a certain inadequacy, and I'd like to express it. The reason for this is that, in fact, the tent cities were set up the first evening, and the people whose house had been completely destroyed were placed there, but since there were aftershocks, no one of our citizens would like to enter and sit in their own homes. It's a severe earthquake, it has a psychological effect. Hence, our citizens do not want to go to tent cities, they want to own a tent and set up a tent near their home, and from time to time they want to meet their needs from home. And that's a very specific need, of course, a demand. So we saw it as a legitimate request, and we opened up as far as possible. Those who have no home are usually in tent cities, but our other citizens are given as many tents as they can. I've seen it in Ercish. He has a tent near his house, but he comes in and out of his house from time to time. Of course, there wasn't such a high demand for a tent. Now this damage detection is being done quickly, and you can enter your homes to our citizens. It's being told that, of course, those with safe homes -- others get put in red times so that they'll never be able to sit here. But all of our citizens -- and this Van and Ercish are about 100,000 digits -- you can't meet him when he asks for 100,000 digits. Right now, outside the tent and outside the heater, there's nothing wrong with the food and other needs in particular. In fact, from other cities in the region and from our state institutions and NGOs, there has been a very serious lack of help, especially since last night, but there is still a certain congestion about the tent -- for the reason I just expressed it. We've mobilized all of Turkey's resources, including the tent manufacturers to meet him, including all of the stocks, even from neighbouring countries -- one or two places -- where the tent transfers are being provided. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are now returning to normal life at the center, markets are open, stores are open, businesses are open. An earthquake city is in the center of the van. Its atmosphere is waning. Just because he's anxious to enter the house at night, his tent demands and work continues to be met. There's nothing wrong with hot food. Until the villages last night, for example, in all villages... our 19 villages are particularly damaged, five of which are completely damaged, including schools and mosques, there really aren't any buildings left in the village. Hot food has been sent here since last night. Of course, such periods -- as I've already expressed in the beginning -- bring together a very close, sensitive cooperation of both our public institutions and civil society and all our citizens. That's one of the basic characteristics of our nation, and yesterday, of course, the leader of the main opposition party, the top executives of our opposition parties visiting and receiving information from the region, is another part of this integration and an important support, and I thank them, too. Our coven, our institutions, our nation will overcome them in cooperation. I would also like to point out that the tent, including the villages -- today, tonight, again, we have reinforced our villages -- is provided for by our citizen, whose house has been destroyed and needs tents, but the rest of them, who want extra tents, who don't go in, are also working for them. We're predicting temporary dwellings in tents for about a month, in our villages and Ercish. A month later, we plan to activate containers with winter-resistant, cold-resistant, bathrooms, toilets, and kitchens. Right now, our president, our Minister of Urbanism, is working on the work, the market and the terms of the tender and so forth. We're planning to spend the winter with containers, but in the meantime, we've been working on tender conditions for permanent housing, land supply, etcetera. And hopefully within a year at the latest, these citizens will be given their homes under the best of circumstances to our citizens whose house has been completely destroyed. We're in on the plan. Schools have been vacationed until Monday after the Festival of Sacrifice because some of our schools have been damaged. These need to be found and compensated for what's easy to make up for. The university's on vacation. That way, by then, our schools will be re-educated. As an energy, all of Van is electric. As of last night, 70 per cent of Ercish was electrocuted, and studies are being carried out today to give it all to him. Our villages still have no electricity. It's about transportation: Van Airport is having its busiest days, of course, and cargo planes are carrying supplies from all over Turkey, as well as extra, extra passenger planes have been deployed, and because our citizens are going elsewhere, there's a lot of serious activity there. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, these are the basics I would like to offer you in general. Our MPs, our group representatives, will take your word, if they have any questions, I can answer them later. And I say unto our people, "Be good to us again, and have mercy on those who have passed away." I thank you once again, with great precision, with great zeal, to the medical staff who work there day and night for 24 hours without actually sleeping, to the search and rescue staff, to all civil and public authorities. I salute you all, thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0003par0037	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now I'm going to make a promise to the group speakers. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0004par0043	Mr. President, valuable members, 74 million people, 800,000 square metres of Turkey, we're all on the fault line. The earthquake doesn't ask for I.D., religion, sect, district, address. 97 Marmara, 99, now 2011, we shouldn't be fated to be caught off guard. Thank you to our people, who have united and united and raised solidarity and raised brotherhood in the face of these great natural disasters, which have brought about the corruption of development, corruption, lack of control, unregistered measures, bids, disgraces, rants, decay, the life policies of my country. I bow before all of you, in the face of this noble stand, the great sense of solidarity, the smell of brotherhood in aid, which has been condemned by history for a thousand years by Turkish Kurds living together. Although there are few of them on TV, on the Internet, on Twitter, on Facebook, on social networks, on the Ku Klux Klan mentality, on racist news and comments, on revenge, on discrimination, on a bunch of poor people who are struggling in the vortex of a human-criminal social decomposition, who serve them, protect them, protect them and protect them in our most painful days, I'd like to give you permission to condemn those who are taking chances, looting, stealing, backstabbing in your presence. Congressmans, history warns us that we must learn a great deal from our country and its world experience as a result of terrible natural disasters. The waters rose on the shore of Lake Van. It was built by the state against hospitals, schools, housing, and zoning in places that were declared a disaster zone because of it. In one newspaper, the day before the earthquake, the disaster came out with the front page of the government. In a disaster, the first thing to come to mind is the Red Moon. Vice Prime Minister Mr. Çelik -- he himself -- did not give a good exam with the prime minister and seven ministers, as he said. Yeah, the Redbeard's starting to smell like salt, so I need a hand. Nurse Eda, who was connected to a TV station in Erciş, echoed the cry for helplessness: over 100 people are dead. Let the authorities handle it, no electricity, no tents. Van was caught in the earthquake during the day, at 13.45 p.m. At the first crime scene, the city of Van of BDP, our Co-Chair Mr. Demirtaş, our close municipalities and immediate relief efforts began. Until 7:00 p.m., there were only a few dedicated workers, medical staff. Van Mayor says the governor of Van refuses to work together. No one can explain the dissolution, the biased approach between central administrations and local governments, which will do the first intervention at a time of disaster. While the citizen is dying under the rubble, I'd like to point out that the Prime Minister and the ministers are prepared to welcome them, or we won't be doing politics on such painful days. It's clear that schools, hospitals, dorms, police buildings were the first buildings to be destroyed. The institutions of the state were the first to be crushed. We want to ask, why isn't there an honest rescue team in our country with 250,000 police, 230,000 gendarmes, 20,000 coast guard, 450 thousand private security, 700,000 military forces, including critical fault lines in its own units? There's a college in every county, college kids getting run over, why aren't there rescue teams working as social workers? The collection of aid, distribution, order has always been a separate problem. How many earthquakes have we had, how many disasters have we experienced, and still nothing has changed in Marmara, and Van. We invite the state to be transparent about foreign aid, the government's $20 billion earthquake tax collected so far, again NGOs, municipalities, voluntary aid organizations, everyone, but we never, ever accept that the Ministry of Internal Affairs should be able to seize the assistance that the municipalities receive by sending to the municipalities general because today, after seeing the victims of earthquakes that have been fired in the disaster of charity and have been hit, it has become clear that this is not a subject to government and its central administration. Members of lawmakers in New Orleans were talking about exciting opportunities in the post-Katrina system, contractors and contractors. The advocates of the global economy were discussing private school opportunities instead of ruined public schools. After the 2004 tsunami disaster, hundreds of thousands of fishermen were sent to camps in the interior of the country to benefit from their shelter and relief supplies on the shores of Sri Lanka, which suffered 80 per cent of the damage. Van coasts evacuated because of the disaster... six neighborhoods were evacuated, the state's decision -- the governorship -- but the government built eight official buildings there. These examples give us the right to question the government's government-controlled capital, the calls of so-called public institutions such as TOKI, aid agencies such as the Lighthouse. Congressmans, we're warning the government from here. Van City's refusal to co-operate with the Van Governor after the earthquake and even the establishment of the joint crisis table is the greatest disrespect for the chosen wills. His cat was famous, and he became famous for his segregating governor. This is a measure of central administration's disrespect for a party that receives 50 per cent of the vote. There may be time for common sense, lack of compassion, hysteria of ignorance. The important thing is that the political institution lacks a conscience, a lack of sanity. More than half of the votes were taken by the Van, the co-chair of the earthquake study, the mayor of the BDP, the 4 MPs of the BDP, the Prime Minister and his ministers are leaving; it's a terrible photograph on behalf of politics if they can't meet there. I want to underline that. If all of Turkey combines suffering in aid and solidarity and meets, if politicians can't get together, then the government has been kept sane. Today's parliamentary agenda was about the Home Secretary, we did the responsible politics, we filed the motion. Congressmans, our hearts are breaking between Kandil and Kandilli. More than a hundred funerals in a week, crying Kurds and Turkish mothers, the cries of hundreds of deaths added by the earthquake, the disaster. Our people who share suffering, aid, solidarity, Cobras, Skorskys, tanks, planes, bombs, operations, conflicts. A Turkey that spends its power, its economy, its people, in a dirty war that lasts twenty-seven years, in a war that kills a brother. Millions on the human fault line. The bullet doesn't ask for an address, the earthquake doesn't ask for an identity. We rebel against desperation. It's not fate for a brother to shoot a brother when there's integrity, unity, peace, a brother to live together as brothers. On such painful days, on the eve of the feast of sacrifice, we do not want to offer any more sacrifices. Do we want to heal the wounds? We want to share the pain, share the pain? Do we want to add strength to the desire of the people of the thousand years of history to live together, the strong colors of Asia Minor? Yes, there's something very important to do. Both the PKK, the government, and the state will now shut down the weapons. Let's use weapons, conflicts, death expenses to heal wounds, and there's no greater, holy, sincere solidarity. I wish those who die mercy, healing for the wounded, miraculous salvation for those under the rubble. All our hearts are bound together with them. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0005par0064	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Haluk Eyidoğan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Eyeborn.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0006par0068	Mr. President, lawmakers, after the 1999 quakes, we did not experience an earthquake in a period of twelve years that nature gave us more than six and a half, but this lucky period, which we did not use very well, ended on 23 October 2011. On Sunday afternoon, October 23, 2011, there was a 7.2 - magnitude earthquake that rocked Van and his surroundings, and the cry covered the sky, and we lost hundreds of our citizens, and we have over 1,000 wounded. Our pain is great. I ask God's mercy for those who have died, and for those who have been wounded, and for the speedy healing. Mr. President Kemal Kilicdaroglu is the first party leader to go to the region after the earthquake. He did some canvassing the area, and he saw that the concrete samples he took were salt and ice. Thus, we still face a serious problem with earthquakes in Turkey. As of today, the Republican People's Party is rounding up mayors and mayors in the region and ready to give our people all kinds of assistance and contributions. In the period that began with the August 17, 1999 earthquake, suggestions to reduce the devastating impact of the earthquake, measures to be taken, legal changes to be taken, the focus of scientific meetings, symposiums, and the subject was discussed in scientific meetings, road maps and theoretical infrastructure. Scientists, universities, vocational rooms and relevant NGOs have sacrificed their responsibility. After that, it is political power to carry out arrangements and action plans under the guidance of science and provide examples of practice that reveal the solution. The examples we live in show that we still have a long way to go, and there are many gaps. In his speech, he talked more about post-an earthquake aid, search and rescue efforts, first aid studies, logistical support. In fact, if there's a lot of work to do in search and rescue, if there's a lot of work to help, that means we're seriously short on risk reduction, and we can't do our jobs; that's the way to think about it. The results of this recent earthquake prove that we have not been able to reduce the risk of depression in our country over the past 12 years, over an important earthquake belt? Again, two days ago, in the eyes of the world, this evidence has shown itself in the most painful form with numerous buildings that have suffered heavy, heavy damage and have collapsed in bulk. In this country with 160 universities, thousands of experts and engineers, international cement factories, all kinds of construction materials, large construction companies, 400,000 dwellings, and new earthquake regulations, why are our buildings still turning into death machines in an earthquake? Why are many of our buildings still in total collapse? What are we missing? What we lack is that we still do an important portion of our structures without planning and without the rules of engineering and science, and we don't want to see it done. Turkey is 10 times more vulnerable than the developed countries. During this period, the government has been constantly reminded by experts and has failed to carry out some legal and institutional arrangements that need to be made in order to reduce earthquake risks, has failed to change Building Law 3194, has failed to enact the city's law of transformation, its breaches in the Structural Control Act, its black holes, its lacks, its DASK resolution. The main city plans are turning into patched bundles, with constructions that are contrary to the science of planning, runt-purpose. The number of floors is rapidly increasing before high structure regulations can be adopted, and the control of the concrete and equipment to be used in these structures includes serious problems. There's been a 20-30-story floor race in the big cities. These high constructions will raise serious problems in the future of earthquakes, transportation, environmental and population density, especially earthquakes. The August 17th earthquake has allowed everyone to take the necessary lessons, but the government has not been able to do their homework properly. Even the motions for the collection of earthquake taxes remain unanswered. The government established new ministries just before the elections, when the House was closed. One of these ministries is the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, which will have a key say in reducing earthquake risks. After reviewing this decree, it is understood that the government wants to spread the concept of monopoly management in the political plan across the community through the removal of the functions of TMMOB-related rooms, such as public, social service presentations, monitoring, interrogation and control. This will eliminate the possibility of monitoring, questioning, and auditing the policies and practices that increase the risk of earthquakes in related vocational rooms. And I'd like to say a few words about building control because that's the bottom of the problem. Including the 1999 Seipeli and Düzce earthquakes and the previous ones, including this latest Van earthquake, the loss and the painful lessons have shown us that in our country in development and development, a structure control system must be provided urgently, which is functioning, not abused, and based on scientific grounds. In 2000, a decree was issued on Building Control No. 595. The decree was cancelled by the Constitutional Court in 2001 and replaced by the Law on Building Control No. 4708, which was adopted by the Grand National Assembly in June 2001, was published in the Official Gazette in 2001. Then, until today, there were also arrangements. Despite all these arrangements for the structure control system, unfortunately, an ideal structural control system has not been created. There's only one bill for slacking the building control system, not running it, and open to abuse, which is to collapse in the earthquake. In Van Ercish, we were destroyed again. In our country, where 71 per cent of the population lives in areas with first and second degree earthquakes, the bill for failures and inadequacies in the construction system in our country, where over 1 million cities have a population of more than 1 million in dangerous areas, is too heavy for society and the economy and will continue to exist. We have proposals as CHP, which have been set up to avoid collapse in the earthquake, to correct issues that are failing in the Building Control Act and in the system, to establish an ideal system, and to do what must be done in law, regulations and practice, and we will do our best in this regard. The bill will be too heavy for everyone to pay for a building control law that could lead structures to control in our very high country. Moreover, local problems can be associated with earthquakes in our cities, which are growing in population density. Low standards should prevent unhealthy, ranta-based, fast and low-quality urbanization, prevent land use and ground selection decisions from succumbing to spontaneous concerns. In urban and rural areas, ground sciences, engineering, architecture and urban planning must be effectively used in planning and building decisions. The development of technical methods for urban risk detection and risk management, integration of them with the zoning system, and comprehensive changes to relevant legislation must be made. In urban transformation and housing, the sense of service that decludes people from being citizens and converts them into customers must be abandoned, and the public service understanding of the social state must be dominated. First of all, work on strengthening weak structures in first-degree earthquake areas, the application of disaster -- not only urban transformation -- should start as an emergency -- for publicization of the unsupervised and re-planning of the unsolicited. There are resources for transformation, earthquake taxes are one of them, but his whereabouts are unknown. In our country, disaster-oriented spending to reduce disaster risks should not be viewed as an expense pen that disrupts budget balances. One unit of pre-infected spending is equivalent to seven units of post-conflict spending. In view of the progress, we are not convinced that within four years the government will succeed in measures and practices that reduce the risk of earthquakes. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish that earthquakes were not the fate of our country and of our people. My condolences to our people again, my respects.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0007par0086	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Oktay Vural. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0008par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we are in deep sorrow again before we can truly embrace the pain of our martyrs. The heart of 74 million is actually beating for those martyrs, and today the same hearts are beating for what we lost in the earthquake. Our pain is great, our sadness is unspeakable. I wish God's mercy to all our citizens who lost their lives in the earthquake, and to heal those who were injured, and to heal all. And save us from the greater afflictions. Of course, we need to take precautions. Every ten years we face disaster. It's really a fault line between Ercish-Van. Yes, we've lost our losses, that happened, but the fact that the heart of 74 million has been beating there in the face of the loss of that fault line has also expressed how this nation is determined to be one and one, and walk together towards the future, against those who want to put a fault line between the unity and the integrity of this nation. And in that respect, I thank this powerful approach by the great Turkish nation, this national spirit of solidarity. Indeed, those who, on the one hand, wave their flag at our martyrs, are also doing everything in their power to help against the losses here. We're the great Turkish nation, we know how to handle these pains, as long as we don't let those who want to spread fault lines between our people. Yes, we've obviously wrapped the wounds of a major earthquake like the Marmara earthquake at a great price. We really think our government is capable of these smaller earthquakes today, and it has the power to wrap them up. We always express that there are lessons to be learned in this framework. I think we all have lessons and observations in this earthquake. In this regard, we went as a delegation to the region yesterday morning as the National Movement Party, with our Vice President Mr. Sadir Durmaz. We went with our former Minister of Health, Mr. Osman Durmus Bey. We'd like to share some of our observations here. These are lessons to be learned. So, in this process, we delivered our observations to both the crisis management center and the crisis management center in Ercish. The observations that we began from the airport continued in Ercish, in hospitals in Van central, as I said, to oversee efforts to rescue those who were destroyed and left under the rubble, to visit the crisis management. I have to say, we've actually argued that there are some coordination flaws in the organization from time to time in the face of earthquakes like this. For example, as soon as we left, a rescue party of 40 from Zonguldak (Zonguldak) found us, where will we go, and how will we go? So there may be a lack of coordination here in that dense traffic, but the information we received from citizens during the time we went to Ercish is that, of course, while the search and rescue efforts continue to continue, there is obviously no work in some of the buildings, our citizens are considered incomplete in the search and rescue. So, no matter what happens, you have to get all sorts of lives, people there are waiting for it, thinking that there's a lot more work to be done in this regard. So during search and rescue, we actually saw crews working there for 24 hours. Forty-two search and rescue teams were reportedly sent to Ercish. Of course, there was a building that was completely destroyed over 80. When such long-term work was taken into account, there was a question of whether or not these search-and-rescue teams should be more. My dear friends, one of the sights we've seen is that tents and help are coming there, but our citizens have expressed their opinion that they are not being distributed fairly. We didn't see the governor who was in charge of the crisis management center in Erciş. He must have been traveling with the Minister. There was my governor, there was the mayor. On one occasion, I would like to say that the head of crisis management should lead and govern the crisis. So, with some people coming here, I mean, meeting them, going, that's not their job. Thus, there was a problem at the door where citizens could not discuss their problems inside. He needs a tent, yeah. I mean, we've actually named a lot of neighborhoods... where the tents that were distributed didn't get there. Vanyoli District, the neighborhood where the District Agriculture Directorate is located... has been reported to have never been to this area. Tents were given to the chiefs, but after the chiefs, distribution wasn't checked out. There's something wrong with that. And then when we talked at the center in Van, there was an opinion that a decision had been made to the citizens not to be distributed, but then when the demands were taken into consideration, that it was actually wrong, that it should be given to the citizens. However, when I say all this before you, I would also like to point out that after the meeting of the Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc Council of Ministers, 8,964 tents were sent to the region. The number of tents can be seen to be sufficient. The AKP Vice-President Hüseyin Çelik says, "No, the tent is not enough." So maybe the crisis is inside the party that runs Turkey. I mean, that kind of talk makes things right. Where 8,964 tents were sent, the information we received from the crisis table was 4,800 tents. We were there in the middle of the night, we were at the airport, there were 530 tents, these tents didn't arrive. Here is Huseyin Çelik Bey saying that the population of the village of Gedikbulak is near 2,000. Right, 280 households. We're down 275 of them. 30 tents were gone. No, we went there last night, there was no tent. There's not a tent on the road, on the highway, just on the right! It says 30 sent. We're looking in the morning, there's three tents, and there's five catalytics. Therefore, I think that this matter of help and tenting needs to be resolved. Search and rescue is really very flattering. From all over Turkey, from Mush, from Şanlıurfa, from Ankara, from Jalova, from Lakecuk... after the 1999 earthquake. Especially those search-and-rescue efforts from the gendarmes. It's very professional. I mean, it's obviously a source of pride. We saw with pride how the gendarme, our soldier, our police, shielded his chest. In this regard, they need to support their work. We, as the National Movement Party, have immediately organised a number of assistance from the municipalities, as co-ordinator of our vice president, who is in charge of local governments. There are 10,000 blankets, two truck tents, three trucks, three trucks of equipment, three businesses from Manisa, Isparta, Silver House, Tarsus, Tarsus, and a blanket campaign from Lakecuk, etc. Of course, we're here to express that, my dear friends, this is the help of every member of our nation. So it can't be helped by parties, it shouldn't be judged politically, it shouldn't be helped. So it's important not to make it political. I need to get him there where he needs to be, and whoever needs him on the floor has to go to him. It's our capacity, it's ours. No, it's not those municipalities, not those participant municipalities, it's those party municipalities... we all have to make it our first priority to get their help together. Even if we even make these kind of contributions political, or even when we're handing out help, if we subject people to different discrimination, I think the first thing we're going to hurt is this nation's national solidarity spirit, I want to express it in particular. As a nationalist movement party, our help is now in place. These assistance will be delivered to the areas set by the crisis management centre, which will be distributed. I'd like to point out a few issues in this box: One, the local homes... are being built in Pakistan. We don't know where they are, in fact. It's a matter of the appointment of the public officials there. Their house was destroyed and everything. This has got to be about a transfer. What about the shop owner's business, everything gone, no insurance? We need to figure this out. In order to ensure my return home, we must make sure that the damage is detected immediately and ensure that the citizens are allowed to enter places where there is no damage. A 100-man damage assessment isn't enough. Two million homes were damaged in the 1999 earthquake. And the Grand National Assembly of Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...accepted a report from the Depression Research Commission last semester. Now, today, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Mr. President, if this report is there, if this Parliament has decided what must be done, please, what has been done through a commission, what are the shortcomings? We need to review what's being done and can't be done by revisiting the matter and ensure that the parliamentary research commission reports don't remain on the shelf.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0009par0107	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0008par0108	In that respect, I'm sorry again. We believe that the power and capacity of our government is strong enough to heal this wound, and I believe we will. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0009par0111	Now, on behalf of the AK PARTI Group, Mr. Mehmet Ersoy of Sinop. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0010par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, on Sunday (October 23rd), I have been promised to convey on behalf of my group my thoughts on the 7.2 magnitude earthquake in our Van province at 1:45 p.m. on Sunday (October 23rd). On behalf of myself and my group, I salute you all. As I begin with my words, at 1300 hours, I pray to God for mercy on all of our losses, whose number is 370, and to our wounded I pray for immediate healing. And I wish all our people, who have served in the van, who have resided, and who have lived there, that they may have patience. Congressmans, as we all know, 66% of our country's territory is in its first and second-degree earthquake belt, as well as its seismic structure. But the frequency of the disasters we have experienced in recent years has also increased, and our losses are increasing. 1995 Dinar, 98 Ceyhan, 99 Lakecuk and Düzce, 2003 Bingol, 2010 Elazig, 2011 Gediz, again 2011, today, Van. Dear lawmakers, of course, fighting against disasters involves first of all reducing pre-fact risks, preparing for disasters, good intervention, and healing. Even if we have no control over earthquakes, we can reduce the damage by paying attention to all these processes, minimizing our social, material, spiritual, economic, cultural losses and loss of lives. In order to do that, we need to create a disaster-resistant society with both central administration and local governments, civil society, voluntary institutions. The more we can do that, the less we'll lose. In our country, which has experienced disaster and especially earthquakes, the 1999 Laker and Düzce quakes have really been a myth. In the past decade, scientific studies have been weighed down on one side, while on the other, regulations such as building control, earthquake regulations, new ways of urban transformation have been opened to our municipalities, the number of seismic stations have been increased, now created by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, the Urban Development Strategy and Action Plan, the National Earthquake Strategy and Action Platform by the President of the Afet Emergency Management, and the National Disaster Plan. Congressmans, what I'm trying to sum up very briefly is...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0011par0122	Mr. President, the government is not in the courtroom when we speak, sir. No, there's no government.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0010par0123	Again, search-and-rescue units at 11 boroughs in order for search and rescue activities to be carried out effectively throughout the country during this process...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0011par0124	There aren't two ministers... it can't happen! Let the government speak, the government...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0010par0126	In each of our counties, search and rescue teams have been formed, consisting of personnel whose numbers range from 50 to 20. Our Ministry of Health has formed national medical rescue teams, major work on the telecommunications system has been completed, the sensitivity of civil society and our people has increased, and in addition to civil defense, our municipalities and NGOs have created many search and rescue teams. The Turkish Red Sea has renewed its construction, warehouses have been set up throughout the country, mobile aid and operations teams have been formed. [Cheers and applause from CHP rows!]
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0012par0129	Mr. President, where there is no government, the conversation cannot continue.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0010par0130	With the contributions of both public-led NGOs and NGOs, many training activities have been carried out, at national and international levels, with the work of the disaster emergency president. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, these studies, which I'm trying to sum up very briefly, are finally the work that Mr. Vice Prime Minister has just expressed that we have a very short-term structure. Pain, of course, is painful, and it's too great for all of us, but if the government can't bring back those who are gone, it shouldn't allow the rest of us to cry out, "Where is this state?" Today, we are proud of the presence of a state that can intervene in a 7.2-force earthquake, without need of international assistance, to see the countries that we've been envious of, and to see that they envy our ability to operate abroad and abroad. Again, while suffering after suffering, we are proud of all the members of our great Turkish nation, which are bound by an earthquake in our province, and who are practically competing for help. We give thanks to our dear nation, who have played all kinds of games to turn us against each other, and have given us all the evil focal points that want to turn us against each other, and to their collaborators, the best example of the brotherhood's charity campaign, to give us the best of its stubbornness, without even a day's end, to give us more than a trillion of our help. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, with these studies of confidence in every field, I know very well that there have been no sleepers among us, and the number of officers who have landed in the area who can't send tents from Ankara to Afyon to Afyon to Afyon in two days, in almost three hours have been able to have administrations that can gather the Council of Ministers there, the Ministry of Ministers, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Transport, the State of Emergency and the State of Emergency, to our concerned Deputy Prime Minister, our esteemed ministers, and many of our Turkish Affairs, who have not slept since the disaster, and who have helped us to search for thousands, the number of vehicles and equipment, in order to reach hundreds, and to help all of us to look for those who have been involved in the region, to help us, and to look for all of our citizens, to help us, to help us, to help us, to help us, to help us, to help our citizens, to help us, to help us, to help our citizens, to help us, to help us, to help our citizens, to help our citizens, and to help us, to help us, to help us, to help us, to help our citizens, to help us, to help our citizens, to help us, to help us, to help us, to help our citizens, to help us, to help our citizens, to help us, to help us, to help us, to help us, to help our citizens, to help our citizens, to help our citizens, to help our very, to help us, to help us, to help our own, to help us, to help us, to help us, to help us, to help our very many of our own, to help us, to help us, to help us, to help us, to help us, to help us, to help us, to help us, to help us, to help us, to help us, to help us, to help us, to help our very important, to help us, to help us, to help us, to help us, to help us, to help our very important, to help us, to help us, to help us, to help us, to help us, to help our very close, to help us, to help us, to help our citizens, to help us, to help us, to help us, to [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our losses are again mercy from God, our nation's condolences, once again stressing our belief that our government will do everything it needs to do to make sure the wounds heal quickly, that these disasters become a new mile in our country and our nation's resistance society. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is that our Parliament will surely prioritize the legal arrangements to make things more stable, and I hope that God will not bring such a disaster back to life.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0013par0140	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. Congressmans, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes. The government can respond to these conversations. The government's response time is 20 minutes. The first non-responsive statement is from Mr. Sinan Oğan, the Iğdır MP who asked about the earthquake in the province of Van. Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0014par0145	Not Mr. Oğan, Mr. Shandir will speak, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0013par0146	Mr. Chancer, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0015par0150	Mr. Oğan was going to talk about something else, but when it comes to the earthquake and Van, I have to take the word out of the question. Dear President, Congressmans, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. I really think that in the face of pain, our hearts, our thoughts, our feelings have always been one today. Pain unites people. On such a beautiful day, we feel it is important for all of us to talk about the earthquake, to talk about the suffering of our citizens living in Van. First of all, as the National Party of Action and myself, I ask the great God to bless our people who have died in this terrible disaster in Van. I pray for immediate healing for our wounded. Mr. Group Vice President Oktay Vural, as our nation and our state's will and power have expressed, is sufficient to deal with this disaster. We have the will and the power, no need to worry. All Vanians, let all our citizens rely on their state, trust their Parliament, and hope that they know that we will get out of this disaster as soon as possible. In the past, both this government and this nation set an example. Hopefully, after this disaster, the wounds will heal as soon as possible. First of all, I'd like to thank you very much for the effort. Today is not a day of judgment, but a day of encouragement for everyone who is in the field responsible for this matter. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we -- as Mr. President today has long expressed in the group's speech, Mr. Oktay Vural -- believe in the power and will of our state and nation on this subject, and we know that these wounds will be healed. Dear MPs, of course, the good news is coming in from the pain, the 14-day-old Azra baby survived the wreckage, and I just learned that his mother survived. I mean, the Lord God is kind and merciful, and he sends the cure with him. Let's be thankful, let's be patient, and I hope we don't suffer these disasters again. In this sense, in terms of encouraging the government, I would like to set a precedent for setting a bar when Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, in charge, is here: Dear MPs, you know, on August 17, 1999, our country had a major earthquake in terms of the earthquake of the century. According to official records, we have about 20,000 people, 18,000 people, total numbers here, 17.480 people lost their lives; 23,781 injured; 285,211 housing, 42,902 workplaces were damaged. According to unofficial records, the death toll is 50 grand. I mean, we've had a very heavy earthquake in a region that's literally too big to compare to today's earthquake, including nine provinces, but our government and our nation have managed to overcome this earthquake. Look, I'm telling you again, for the sake of the bar, the people of Van deserve the best of it. - Again in the papers today, it's their turn to cry. I curse those who want to be political, separatist over people's suffering, and I say, "This is what's said in the papers yesterday. "This is what's said in the newspaper yesterday." And I ask the Minister to heal these wounds as soon as possible, far beyond the urgency of our government and state's Marmara earthquake. Look, sir, there are a lot of our people living in tents now, ahead of us, coming winter, we need to move them quickly to temporary housing. The 1999 earthquake produced 44,107 temporary dwellings in seventy-five days, with its entire infrastructure. This time it must be done much sooner. Because it's the coming winter. Another 42,427 permanent dwellings were built within 17 months of the August 17 earthquake. Let this be a bar for the government, a precedent, and let's follow it as Congress. These temporary dwellings, which he had completed in 75 days before January, were completed by the 57th Republic government, but this government, hopefully, will complete in 50 days, 60 days, fewer because he must also build permanent dwellings. At this point, I thank all the ministers of our government who served in the 1999 earthquake, and we must remember. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] They've really done a great job. At this point, if the government wants to take advantage of the experience of that day, I would say that they are open to the government's demands at this point, with our friends who worked in the ministry that day, working in the bureaucracy. In this matter, Mr. Minister Koray Aydın will discuss his experiences with a press conference today or tomorrow, and if the government demands it, I say he will present it to the government.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0016par0162	Mr. Chancer, thank you, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0015par0163	I wish to return mercy to my citizens who died in the earthquake, to heal the wounded, to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0016par0165	The second off-the-book statement belongs to Mr. Sezgin Tanrıkulu, the Istanbul MP who asked for the same statement. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0017par0169	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First, I offer my condolences to all our citizens, all our people, who have died in this disaster. I wish for immediate healing to all our wounded citizens. Dear lawmakers, I was in Van County at the time of this disaster, and I saw that painting with all its nudity. I don't think we should make politics out of disaster. You don't make politics through disaster. Only brotherhood, friendship, and emotion can be created over disaster. If there's a flaw, if there's a mistake, there's no talking about how to fix it, there's no talking about anything else. Other criticisms are later done, and politics is later done. I'm just going to talk about two things here. First of all, the lack of coordination right after the earthquake continues according to my information today. I've just spoken to my friends, I've spoken to our friends in Van, I've spoken to our mayor, this lack of coordination continues. There's a lack of co-direction, and this lack of co-direction needs to be resolved immediately. It's not just my opinion, but almost everyone there has the same view. An effort is being made, but this effort has not been transformed into a co-motive. This place is very important to me. It wasn't done, and I want to express it here because I've experienced it. After all, we may not agree, you may not agree, but there is a elected mayor in Van County, a elected local government. There's been a major disaster in Van County. Right after this disaster, did the Prime Minister do what he had to do, Mr. Home Secretary did what he had to do? I don't know exactly about the Home Secretary, but I know the Prime Minister didn't do it. Like the governor, that place should have called the elected mayor and wished him well, but I do know that by now, at least, it hasn't been done. Disasters are not the day of dissolution, but the day of living together, so we had to make this partnership out of all sorts of emotions. And I see it as a great flaw that it hasn't been completed by now. I demand that this be resolved immediately and that a co-direction unit be established there. This needs to be done immediately. In this critical process that we've been through, we need this kind of union and we need to be together. The government needs to show that determination. Secondly, I actually witnessed it myself on my way to the airport yesterday at 4:00 p.m. There can't be so much disorientation in the distribution of tents. It's not supposed to be during this period to get a tent, just by relatives or, you know, by means of a political that he's reached. Therefore, working with local authorities is of great benefit. Under the circumstances, the government must take immediate measures to create permanent housing conditions in the distribution of tents, which must be done immediately. We, as lawmakers, were there yesterday with our president, our deputies today and our mayors in Istanbul are there. The assistance of our İzmir Metropolitan Municipality, Mersin Metropolitan Municipality, Antalya Metropolitan Municipality and Aydın Metropolitan Municipality has arrived. Until these sufferings are over, and until this is over, our MPs and our municipalities will be in the region, in solidarity with our people, and we will demonstrate that emotion partnership. And I'd like to point out here because these are the days to show that we're together in distress and glory. If we can show that we're together in sorrow and glory, we can make our will to live together stronger. Also, I would like to say that, on this occasion, speakers have just expressed that freedom of speech of racism and hate, freedom of thought and organisation, not appreciated and tolerated by freedom of assembly anywhere in the world, but because of this disaster, unfortunately, the rhetoric that includes racist and hate speech was introduced in the media and in the media by some part of the community. These are small groups. They can't be avoided. These are marginal groups. They can't be avoided. We must not tolerate them in any way, we cannot tolerate them. This House needs to have the most severe response to this. In no way are these small groups. We should not show any response. We also know how the security forces who are tolerant of those who perform that demonstration in the Zombie Square, if necessary, treat other performers. So this image needs to be removed. Thank you again. My condolences to the relatives of the deceased. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0018par0180	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Kayseri MP Pelin Günış Bakır. Here you go, Mr. Copper.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0019par0184	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own. In the earthquake zones, in the Van, in Ercish, my voice was hobbled because of the cold that developed during my study. First of all, I'm sorry about that. On 23 October 2011, a devastating 7.2 earthquake occurred in our province. We arrived immediately in the area in three or four hours with our Prime Minister and our ministers. The Central Government was almost simultaneously involved in the incident with local authorities. As a professor of civil engineering that's been in the system for years, I want to make it very clear that for the first time I've seen the central government intervene so quickly and successfully in such a massive earthquake. Our opposition parties have been in and out of the area. Given the delays in intervention in the 1999 quakes, it is truly admirable that our Parliament is present with both its power and opposition and the people of the region immediately.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0020par0187	Don't throw mud, don't throw mud. Don't defame your 99th power.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0019par0188	Today, it's time to cooperate with his power, his opposition, to hold hands. We extend our best feelings to all of our opposition parties to cooperate. Right now, our citizens are waiting for the power and opposition to join hands and heal their wounds. I have full faith that our opposition parties will give us full support in this matter, which is completely humane and above-politic. At the point of reducing earthquake damage, we need to look to the future by taking lessons from the past, not the past. In accordance with our charter, I would like to give you five minutes of non-responsive conversation, and I would like to give you my scientific suggestions in a detailed summary of the basics. As we all know, in our country, Istanbul is already the largest danger of earthquakes, but the main issue we need to talk about today is not where or how many parts of the faults will be broken, but how to make our existing building stocks and cities more resistant to earthquakes. According to the 2007 Turkish Earthquake Rule, 90 per cent of our buildings will be unsustainable when our current building stock is inspected. In Istanbul alone, it would take twenty-five years and billions of dollars if we tried to strengthen all of these weak structures. The 1999 quakes showed that the total loss of life in earthquakes were in buildings that were in total migration or flat-body migration. Again, according to the statistics of 1999 earthquakes, the ratio of such buildings to the current building stock is 6%. Here, as we build earthquake-resistant cities, the goal is not to strengthen all of the buildings that have migrated in our current building stock, but to identify the 6 per cent of the total migration. For this, scientific credibility-accepted speed assessment techniques can be used, but instead of strengthening the buildings entering the 6 percentile, it is a wiser solution. Because it's a mystery whether the strengthening projects are implemented in the field with proper workmanship, whether they're well controlled and how healthy they are with the old building staff. In our current building stock, a large number of buildings are standardized, with low concrete resistance, corrosion and earthquake damage. My scientific opinion is that by developing new earthquake-resistant housing projects, instead of strengthening these buildings, with all their social utensils and protection of forest terrain, we can develop a significant number of the population...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0021par0192	There are 600 other buildings in the city. It has been ten years.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0019par0193	...that moving as far away as possible from the faults south of Istanbul is a rational option. Science and reason indicate that strengthening the current building stock in Istanbul is a dead end. Again, the move of satellite cities to villages such as Çatrakca, Çerkezköy, Albanianköy and Çororan, where the industry has developed can be considered the right option. In order to encourage the collapse and reconstruction of buildings that are considered a risk of migration, the infrastructure is a win-win for the subsidiaries, for the subsidiaries to allow more floors, and for the slums to be given bigger construction sites and more floors, to be taken down and replaced by earthquake-resistant sites, to ensure that both our major cities are safe from the slums, as well as gains for the squatters. Some of our colleagues are concerned that incentives, such as giving more floor permits, providing more construction sessions, will increase the population in major cities such as Istanbul. But in my opinion, these concerns are inappropriate, because water finds its way. Give encouragement to a region that has no potential for development, you can't improve it. And where there's potential for development, you can set as many boundaries, as many charges, as many restrictions, as you want, and the citizen will develop it again, but with the pressure you're putting on him, you'll lead him on illegal paths. Such incentives can also be assessed in case cases. All these urban transformation plans and projects must also be supported by projects that deter migration and parallel progress. In the next 12 years, the total need for housing in Istanbul is estimated to be around 8 million. These solutions also seem mandatory for Istanbul in terms of the safety of our people, as a major Istanbul earthquake is expected. Once again, I would like to point out that it is not right for a civil engineer or an architect to express their views on earthquake endurance in order that there is no pollution in public. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In addition to the admirable work of the last nine years of AK PARTI power, Publicity wishes that we, as members of the Board of Buildings, will take our position higher in these studies...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0022par0201	Have you made one in the last nine years?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0023par0202	Thank you, Mr. Copper.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0022par0203	Have you done one for the last nine years?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0023par0204	Please, Congressman, please...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0024par0205	I wish God's mercy to those who died in the Van earthquake, and to those who were injured, and to those who were injured.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0022par0207	This isn't the place to wish for it.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0023par0208	Members of lawmakers have asked for the location of our close friends. The Minister wants to use the right to answer after listening to them. First place is Mr. Sakek. One moment, your position, please.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0025par0213	Yes, Mr. President, thank you very much. Under the rubble, people die, and on the wreckage, humanity dies. We've been seeing these fascist rhetorics lately. For example, in a religious newspaper, over there, there's a religious newspaper called Iqazah, a religious, fascist newspaper that publishes it very easily and reflects its Kurdish geography from here as divine justice. It's a fascist emotion, it's a fascist understanding. Now, our country is going through a painful process. We've had some very important pains for a week, and we want to heal our wounds. Maybe this earthquake is a means to an end. For a dialogue, it may be a means of negotiation, because there was a coldness between Greece and Turkey in 1999, the removal of a small baby from the wreckage created an opportunity for help there. I wish... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me, I'd like to say a few words.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0026par0218	I'm sorry, Mr. Sakık, you know, just a minute for everyone...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0025par0219	Well, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary will respond, so they've gone to the area, Mr. Prime Minister has gone with a group of ministers. Why wasn't there a dialogue with the mayor of that province and the chosen ones? Secondly, in an overnight assessment of why the mayor and his deputy weren't on the commission...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0026par0221	Thank you. They've been told before. Now, in second place, Mr. İncekara, the Istanbul MP. Your position, please, one moment.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0027par0225	I'd like to ask the Minister: we see on the screen, from the images, trucks pulling up and handing out aid to communities. My question is, is all aid from Turkey or from the world being collected and distributed in one hand? Again, in the distribution of tents, we saw a woman being pushed away from her tent. Is the address-based system used to distribute this tent? Has justice been done?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0028par0227	The addresses have been destroyed, Mr. Incekara.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0027par0228	Aid campaigns have started all over the place, people and institutions who don't have a lot of help to get help from. Is any of this taken care of? Is there any way that they can be replaced? Thank you very much.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0029par0230	Thank you, Mr. Incekara. Mr. Kurt of Hakkari... Your position, please.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0030par0234	Mr. President, as I listened to Mr. Atalay, I had a feeling that the pain we saw in the van was as if it hadn't happened. There are no villages left unreachable. It is called. Some villages have been wiped off the map. I think Mr. Atalay has ruled these villages out. Erciş was the freak of zoning policy. Between 2004-2011, the mayor, who was mayor of Ercish, and gave licenses to multi-story buildings, is currently a member of parliament in the ranks of the AKP. Mr. Secretary, have they considered starting an investigation on this subject? That's what we ask them. Also, the Kandilli Observatory was able to detect the violence of the Van earthquake exactly six hours after the U.S. Geology Institute. Was that intentional, too? Did it have anything to do with the delay of help? I'd like to ask the Minister for an answer.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0031par0238	Thank you. Now, Mr. Serindağ of Gaziantep... Your position, please.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0032par0242	Thank you, Mr. President. I pray for the mercy of God to our citizens who died in the earthquake in Van and Ercish, and to our wounded citizens for immediate healing. Mr. President, the most damaged was the two-story buildings on Van Road Street until very recently. Over the last three or five years, these buildings have been demolished, replaced by high-story buildings. The buildings that were destroyed are these high-story buildings. Old houses haven't been destroyed, these newly built tall buildings have been destroyed. These buildings were either built high-level in violation of the zoning plan, or the zoning plan was modified and increased to multiple levels. In both cases, authorities and officials at the time have a heavy responsibility. So, do you intend to take action on the authorities and those responsible at that time?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0033par0245	Thank you. Now, Mr. Tüzel, the Istanbul MP... Your position, please.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0034par0249	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish that the sufferings and losses caused by the earthquake in our province be overcome by unity, solidarity and brotherhood, and I wish our people their condolences and the continued war environment to end. Once again, the political and economic sense of the mindset that prevails over the state has become a pile of debris. Despite scientists' warnings in 2003-2004, why did the administration of today's rule take no precautions, allowing urbanisation to remain on this fault line? Those who remain under the damaged state's buildings and structures must be accounted for to our people. How have funds from the work of the people been looted since 99? With this earthquake, these things must be explained, to end the deception of our people, to end the robbery, to end the abuse of suffering. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0035par0252	Thank you. Now, Mr. Kaleli, Congresswoman of Bursa...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0036par0255	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we've been shaken by two major pains in the past week, asking for mercy, patience, and healing. Both terrorism and the earthquake are the reality of this beautiful and difficult geography. For a country that claims to produce its own car and plane, the power to overcome them is also a fact, as long as we want to, let's be sincere about the solution. In the last year, there have been seven violent earthquakes in the world and 17 earthquakes in total, and only three countries have suffered casualties. One is Japan, the other is Pakistan, and the third is Turkey, which is rocked by earthquakes of 7 and 9. From these losses, everyone from local to headquarters has responsibility. As a country that has lost over 20,000 to the earthquake in the last 12 years, we must first question what we're doing.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0037par0259	Thank you, Mr. Kaleli. Now, Mr. Aslanoglu, the Istanbul MP...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0038par0262	Mr. President, we ask the Lord God to have mercy on all our brothers who lost their lives in the Van earthquake, and we pray for immediate healing for our wounded brothers. Our entire organization, especially our president, is deeply distressed. All our municipalities have mobilized to heal our wounds immediately. Our twelve mayors in Istanbul, along with our municipalities of Mersin, Antalya, Izmir Metropolitan City, are now in Van. And they have taken all the help they have collected from their districts to Van. And I thank those mayors in your presence. It's the sadness of all of us. All our brothers and sisters, this country is ours. We have to be partners in this pain, we'll be partners to the end. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0037par0264	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Now, Mr. Snatcher...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0039par0267	Thank you, Mr. President. And I offer my condolences to the Turkish people... for the death of all our citizens... because of the earthquake in Van. Mr. President, 24 martyrs a few days ago, which we're not sure of. I attended a funeral in Yozgat, the hometown of one of these martyrs. Mr. Yaşar Geşmakam of Sarıkaya, the Republican People's Party did not shake the hands of the MPs in protocol. I strongly condemn this and invite the Home Secretary to the post. I would also like to propose once again that the government take precautions in the Kelkit Plain, one of the highest-risk areas in terms of the earthquake today. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0040par0272	Thank you. My fellow lawmakers, you know that wasn't a question-answer part. We've given it to our friends who want a word before. So I'd like to cut off a few of our friends here, if you'll excuse me. The last word is for Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0041par0276	Mr. President, we want a word.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0040par0277	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0042par0279	Thank you. Mr. President, as the Republican People's Party Group, I ask God's mercy for our citizens who died in the earthquake in Van. I pray for a cure for our wounded. As a result of the earthquake, our nation demonstrates the best examples of solidarity with brotherhood. I wish this solidarity would set an example in other aspects of our lives. I believe the government will do everything in its power to ease the suffering of the earthquake, to heal the wounds. The Republican People's Party municipalities will do their best in this framework, and it is vital that these wounds be wrapped quickly. Also, the important thing is to build the substructure of earthquakes that we will never lose our lives again, and to take the necessary precautions. I'd like to take this opportunity to remind you of this from here. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0043par0282	Thank you. - President, I'd like to hear from the bench.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0044par0284	We want a word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0043par0285	Congressmans, now the Deputy Prime Minister will answer all these questions. Mr. Secretary, please come in, sir. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] We can't go on forever, my dear friends. One second... one second...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0045par0289	Why can't you keep it up? So when do we get the word? We want to speak as a congressman. We condemn you, we protest.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0043par0290	One second... one second... sir, we promised the first 12 people to take the stand.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0046par0291	Mr. President, aren't 12 members of parliament and the other members of parliament?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0043par0292	Now then, five minutes ago, 14, 15 more came in, that's the problem. He can't answer questions all day, so let him.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0047par0294	So the government will talk for 24 hours, and you can't stand us talking for a minute.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0043par0295	It's not a question of patience, sir, ask for word on time... ask for word on time... No, sir, you interpret it your way. I resent it! You won't get anywhere by shouting. We've given it to those who want a word in time, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0048par0299	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0049par0300	We're the only MPs here who've had the earthquake, Bigeli.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0048par0301	I'm not sure Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0050par0302	Parliament's open, you're on a ten-minute break. Ten minutes to answer questions, but...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0049par0303	I'm Ableeli, I'm a Marmara earthquake, I'm going to answer him...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0048par0304	I'd like to begin with her wish for brotherhood as the last member of parliament.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0049par0305	You've been out here, we've done it, we've done it. Haven't you seen the news this morning?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0048par0306	Mr. President, you can silence...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0051par0307	Please... please...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0049par0308	Mr. Secretary, I'll shut up, I'll shut up, but tell the truth!
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0048par0309	Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0052par0310	Mr. Secretary, silence the MP, you may object, but silence him... Mr. Secretary, do not give instructions.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0053par0311	Please... please...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0048par0312	I'm talking to Mr. President, not you.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0052par0313	Don't instruct the president. (sing) If you can shut me up (sing)
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0053par0314	Please... please...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0048par0315	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, our nation is experiencing very different emotions right now.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0054par0316	I'm not listening to you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0055par0317	Mr. President, you shouldn't see too much of a congressman for a minute.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0056par0318	Sir, we can't go on forever, so please sit down.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0055par0319	We came from the earthquake zone.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0056par0320	We can't go on forever, your friends have spoken.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0057par0321	Our nation is living in the deepest part of its heart, the sense of brotherhood, solidarity that Mr. Hamzacebi is calling it. Please, let's go through this. Look, we don't want to get up here and talk about this political language. Why don't we talk about the most human matter... our esteemed MPs, please? Our nation... from all over the world, let Turkey, our diplomat from the outside, says: "I have a summer house and so on, it is at your disposal. People from all over the world are in such solidarity. And I'm offended if they're presumptuous. Our nation today, especially in such a human matter, the earthquake, the help, the political consideration of aid, even the use of that concept, I would be ashamed. Those who do so will not prosper.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0058par0324	Mr. Atalay, ask your governor.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0057par0325	Dear friends, that's how we respond to such a delicate subject. Now, my answer to Mr. Tülkara is because he had just asked a question: Yes, both in Ercish and in Van. A deputy governor assigned by the governors is responsible. His only job is to get incoming help, list it, and deliver it to the needy. I'm expressing it. The second one says, "Everyone is gathering help." Ladies and gentlemen of the law, on this occasion, I would like to make a call to our citizens here: right now, AFAD has declared an account number. Please, if you have any help there. If he's going to send the same aid, we need municipalities, civil society, citizens, need or not? What do you need? - Make sure he contacts Van, Van Governor, contact the coordination center, send it accordingly. From just yesterday, we've seen that some of the aid supplies are a little too much and dysfunctional.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0059par0328	Can we do the lighthouse?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0057par0329	Bravo! Congratulations! Congratulations, Mashallah! On the most important day, congratulations! They're quality! Mr. Kurt said: "There are villages out of reach. "
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0060par0331	That's right.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0057par0332	I have a list, Mr. Kurt.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0060par0333	Minister, you've been misinformed.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0057par0334	Look what was delivered to which village? What village? You didn't go to those villages and you don't know. Please believe me.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0060par0336	Mr. Secretary, I've come from there.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0057par0337	What village? Tell me, which village?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0060par0338	You've been misinformed, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0057par0339	Dear friends, look, the list of villages: how many tents have been given, how many blankets have gone, how much damage is there in the village, how many casualties are there, all of them... would that be such an informal thing? The villages have not been visited! From yesterday morning itself, our Minister of Urbanism is both going with the president of TOKI and where will this village be built when it's rebuilt, the whole village is doing its work, is that possible?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0061par0341	Why aren't they talking to the mayor?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0062par0342	Mr. Secretary, they're giving you false information.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0057par0343	Dear friends, let me get right to it. Look, I-I don't want to make the slightest statement here today that's gonna hurt you, that's wrong. I mean, what happens today... I've been coming from those people for three days, look, without sleeping. I mean, there's pain, we're dealing with it. Please, just like that, today, let's all cooperate and give our citizens that message. Now, look, the prime minister didn't call the mayor, so there's no contact with the mayor... Dear friends, the Prime Minister hasn't called anyone. As soon as the Prime Minister heard, he jumped on his plane and went to Van. And greeted him. There were people there, and I went ahead of him. The Prime Minister didn't stop by the governor's office, he didn't stop at any point with the dust on his feet. We said, "Let's give you some information at the coordination center." Because I was there an hour ago and we worked there. No, I'm going straight to Ercish. He said. Now, Prime Minister, believe me, he was uncomfortable that day, and he had a disease, and it's 3:00 in the morning. He stood up all the way to 00, and listened to all the people who wanted to say to him in the streets of Ercish, and coordinated the work. İdris Beye said to the Minister of Interior, "You are here, you will not leave." He said to the Governor of Pain: "You are here. The Prime Minister took care of the patients one by one. Now, it's not easy to understand, friends, don't, we didn't go there for protocol. Wow, the governor's gonna meet... Guys, we worked, our Minister of Health was in the hospital, there at night. Believe me, we're out there... I mean, you guys would live in this environment the same way. Is there anything that could go in there and keep the staff busy with protocol, reception, good-bye? I mean, we're sensitive about that. Look, the vice president, the vice president, has been at all the meetings at the coordination center, the crisis center, but if a mayor, the prime minister, is coming, if he's not going there, he's sending his assistant to the coordination center...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0063par0348	Sir, he can't communicate with the governor.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0057par0349	... And then, I don't know, to the Fırat News Agency, wow, here's what Vali did. It's sad when he's making a statement on a day like this. Look, here's the objective.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0063par0350	So, does the thief have any sins, the governor has no sins?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0057par0351	Believe me, I mean, I'm not looking at it as something, but as someone who's objective, who knows the subject. Why are we accusing you guys like this?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0064par0352	Why did he seize the city's funds, Governor?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0057par0353	Why don't you talk to your friends about something like this on a day like today?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0065par0354	Mr. Secretary, look, the mayor called, he arrived at 11:00...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0057par0355	We've, uh, we've thrown these distinctions in the trash, you know.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0065par0356	Mr. Secretary, the Prime Minister calls, whether it's the phone or the past. He says that's what he does to the chosen people. Is that what the AKP would have done?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0057par0357	Other than that, dear friends, Turkey is a great country, as Mr. Shandir said, Turkey is a country with many opportunities. Turkey overcomes them, but that unity, that sensitivity is more important than any of them. Look, I saw that unity in Van. Turkey became a total of 24 million. No messages, no help coming in there. I suggest everyone go and see that painting over there.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0066par0359	Mr. Secretary, the population is 74 million alone, not 24 million. You did it wrong. Fix this, please.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0057par0360	Now, let's not talk about disaster and humanitarian aid here, not even in political language. Dear friends...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0067par0362	Mr. Secretary, greatness prevents deaths.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0057par0363	Guys, I'm talking, and you're talking. Why are you yelling at me? Please, please, Congressman...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0068par0364	But the population, Minister, you said 24 million. It's not 24 million, it's 74 million. Please fix him.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0057par0365	Dear friends...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0069par0366	Size doesn't come out after death.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0070par0367	Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0057par0368	Dear friends, of course, Mr. Shandir said that, but I wish he hadn't gone to the 99 earthquake. It's a state-of-the-art event two or three days later.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0071par0369	Wrong.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0057par0370	We all live it in our minds.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0072par0371	You don't know! You don't know. If you love God. It's like you're getting hairier and hairier and you're getting hairier.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0057par0372	Dear friends, I'll tell you this. Not to start an argument.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0073par0373	It's a shame, how you can make politics on a day like this!
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0057par0374	Look, not to start an argument...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0073par0375	Too bad, you're doing politics.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0074par0376	Have a seat, please.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0057par0377	Look, look, in this case, the government is coordinated as soon as possible, as soon as possible.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0075par0378	Look at this place! You're doing politics on a day like this.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0076par0379	I thought you thought we had an understanding. Where's the quality? Where's the quality?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0077par0380	Congressmans, please, please...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0078par0381	But we still learn from all the experiences of the past.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0076par0382	Is it so hard to say thank you? Too bad, too bad...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0079par0383	Look, the Congresswoman thanked us, and we went there with her authority. She said, "We went there with her opposition."
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0080par0384	Mr. Vural, please, please...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0076par0385	You're doing politics on such a painful day. Too bad, you're doing politics. You know, the quality, the quality...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0080par0386	Mr. Korkmaz, please, please...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0081par0387	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0082par0388	400 thousand... you haven't made it to 2,000 fucking houses!
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0083par0389	Is it that hard to say thank you?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0084par0390	Mr. Vural, please... Mr. Korkmaz, please...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0085par0392	Dear friends, I thanked you. I thanked Mr. Shandır first.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0086par0393	Mr. Secretary's speeches are always mines! They're always talking about explosives!
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0087par0394	Pity! That's how you thank me! Pity!
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0088par0395	Please, please...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0089par0396	I thanked you first. What kind of criticism can come on a day like this and not be here?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0090par0398	We've said so much on a day like this, it's not worth it!
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0091par0399	Is it so hard to return a right?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0092par0400	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0093par0401	It was said that...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0091par0402	Pity!
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0092par0403	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0093par0404	It's been said that we, of course, are learning from all the earthquakes and all the things that have been done in our country right now. We're also learning from Adapazari, the Marmara earthquake, so let me put it this way. I mean, what was where? I've worked here for three days now, I'm the new Deputy Prime Minister in charge, my first experience...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0094par0405	I've been there for three days. You say it's been two days since the earthquake. You're here today!
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0093par0406	But I've learned a lot of lessons. I've learned a lot of lessons, and I've made decisions there from now on.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0095par0407	I was there five hours after the earthquake, and there was no one near 85 percent of the buildings that were destroyed.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0093par0408	For example, should we be dependent solely on Redea for the tent, or should we have an alternative? Right now, after I've had this earthquake, I'm taking new classes myself, and that's normal.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0096par0409	What about eight thousand, four? 800? Is it true what Hussein Çelik said? Is it true what Bulent Arinc said?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0097par0410	You don't even know the number of tents!
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0098par0411	Please, please...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0099par0412	Dear friends, I repeat...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0100par0413	That's what we've been doing. Get up here! Everything you do already has mines!
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0099par0414	...there were, of course, political statements and things like that. I'll tell you what, the political looker for help can't be helped, so look who's looking.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0101par0416	And he who denies the truth will not succeed.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0099par0417	Other than that, I saw the Azra baby, mentioned by Shandir, whose mother has some problems, but the baby is very good, healthy, I'll tell you that. They were both removed at the same time, which is very important. Dear friends, here, Mr. Godkulu was there, and when his first sentence comes to speak here, politics cannot be produced from disaster. It happened, but he produced politics, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0102par0419	That's a shame! You're really being rude!
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0099par0420	Now, dear friends...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0102par0421	I expressed a wish. The Prime Minister has all the technical facilities. He could've made a phone call and said, "Get well soon."
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0099par0422	Dear friends, coordination... we've had an intervention with civil society agencies... where the government is coordinated at the earliest. Is there a health defect here? Tell me, is there something wrong with health? Is there something wrong with the search and rescue? Is there something wrong with the services?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0103par0423	People are still in ruins.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0099par0424	Mr. Godkulu knows how many places in Ercish are tent cities built, but the citizens do not prefer tent cities.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0104par0425	Mr. Secretary, are the dead coming back, the dead?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0099par0426	Citizens want to build a tent near his house. I've already mentioned the problem in the tent in my own speech. There's no such thing as coordination, guys.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0105par0427	You can't, Mr. Secretary, you can't. You screwed up my opening, and now the disaster.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0099par0428	But we do know that times like this have a psychology. Times like this are in a hurry. Some are right, some are wrong, and some are wrong, but these... Look, one day you'll see, it'll all work out, so you don't have to deal with the things that happen here in some sort of rush of the first moments like it's just too big of a lack of coordination. And I also say, believe me, we're more critical of ourselves.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0106par0431	You're tired.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0099par0432	I mean, where's our agency late? We're picking them up better right now. Here, a friend of ours told me about his homes. Right now, the local homes have not been deemed available because it's colder, or there are 3,000 ready, but the tent has an expert opinion that the winter-resistant tent will be more suitable, not something I would know about, but our Minister of Urbanism is working on it. So the dwelling will not be used here, but it will be used for a month or so, until we get permanent housing from the winter material, which we later refer to as the tent, which we refer to as the conteyner. They're in the middle of a decision. I'd like to express that, too. Meanwhile, our tradesmen and farmers, you know, the loan debts have been delayed, the Council of Ministers' decision is now signed, so let me state that. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, believe me, I never meant to upset you. Don't make any mistakes in my speeches today. I salute you all with the deepest love and respect. And the last thing I'm saying is that those citizens of Van and Ercish... they're very patient, they're patient, they're patient, they're patient, they're patient, they're tough. Believe me, we were very impressed by the attitude, the attitude, the attitude of our citizens there, when their own relatives were under there, at the head of those wrecks. I thank them and I thank them again and I greet you all again with the deepest love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0107par0440	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0108par0441	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0107par0442	Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0108par0443	Mr. President, I'd like to speak under Article 69 of the Civil Code. Mr. Secretary said something about the words I said that would have a different meaning, and I'd like to make that clear.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0107par0445	Please, in two minutes... Here you go.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0108par0449	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I stand by this promise. You can't make politics out of disaster. Let me rephrase... Please, please, please... I came out here to express a very human situation. Now, you're an academic, you've done the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Who's in a province? There's the governor, there's the mayor. The governor represents the state, the mayor represents the people. What's the Prime Minister supposed to do here? If there's been a disaster in a province with 800,000 inhabitants, he'll call the governor and get information. He calls the mayor and tells him to make it better with a cell phone or other means of communication. Isn't that possible, Prime Minister? Would he have acted the same if he had been a AKP's mayor or a CHP member or an MPP member? I believe he wouldn't have acted the same way. Therefore, at such a time, and you should not allow discrimination, exclusivity. I expressed a wish and a feeling, and I was there before you, before you. I've been to those places before you. I've been to them. So I criticized Mr. Prime Minister for not doing so at such a time when it was possible to create a common emotion. This is a constructive criticism. But I don't make politics out of it. I made a constructive criticism. If Mr. Prime Minister is everyone's Prime Minister, he'll call the mayor, listen to the public's problems; that's what he'll have to do. Why do you have to go through this? (CPP and BDP in rows) That's the truth. We also -- we can't express it there, but we will -- we're going to make a research motion on this issue, and on the earthquake. Whatever flaws there are in that matter, including your mayor, we're going to ask for all of them to be uncovered. Look, this Parliament is also a place of accountability, of friendship, of solidarity, of brotherhood. That's what my wish was meant for. Therefore, I do not find it right for you to express my words in a different way. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0109par0457	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0110par0458	Mr. President used some sentences against our mayor. Me, too.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0111par0459	Because he's from Van, Mr. Idris...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0112par0460	Mr. President, we're taking a stand here. When will you promise us?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0113par0461	Mr. Chancer, what are you about?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0114par0462	Sir, Mr. Secretary has spoken a few words about my speaking my name as well.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0115par0463	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. He thanked you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0114par0464	To avoid any misunderstanding...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0115par0465	No, Mr. Secretary thanked Mr. Shandir. He thanked you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0114par0466	Did he say thank you?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0115par0467	The Minister thanked you.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0116par0468	Please, I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0117par0469	Let them learn from your speeches.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0118par0470	Don't let him go, Minister, don't let him go!
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0119par0472	But look, dear friends, the one in the front is responsible, the one in the front is the stones. If the one in front turns around and throws stones at the one who throws stones at him, well, then there's going to be trouble. That's what's wrong. Now, what's the point of the Minister coming back and naming 99? My speech is in 99... you have a Clumsy MP in you.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0120par0473	I was the mayor then.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0119par0474	We were there at 6:30 in the morning, and Yener Rakicioğlu was still in his pajamas.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0121par0475	I'm the person who experienced the 99 earthquakes myself.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0119par0476	We were there, brother, I was there.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0122par0477	Yes, Mr. Ilyas, say something. You're not talking, Mr. Ilyas. What have you done in this country for ten years?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0119par0478	I was there.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0123par0479	We know we're out of the wreckage.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0124par0480	Please... please...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0119par0481	I was there. That's not fair. We were there, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0123par0482	We're out of the wreckage.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0119par0483	I get it, so...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0125par0484	Let's talk, Mr. Ilyas.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0126par0485	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0119par0486	We were there before anyone else. Look, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0126par0488	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0119par0489	In the August 17th earthquake, the will of the state of the Republic of Turkey should be proud of all of us. Look, let me tell you something...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0126par0491	Please, members of lawmakers, let's hear it.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0119par0492	Dear MPs, sir, look, there's been an earthquake in 17/8/1999. In 28 days, 15/9/1999, temporary housing spaces have been set up within 28 days, 25 grand of these designated areas, a thousand maps, contracts have been set up, and home contracts have been started. In seventy-five days, in the 30th of November, 44,107 temporary dwellings were placed there, and citizens were placed there. We all have to be proud of that. I call it a precedent for today's government. You have to do more than that in Van. Now, while that's in the middle, we don't have to talk about today, we're going to talk about tomorrow, we're going to talk about what we're going to do tomorrow. People are writhing there in the cold, and it's starting to snow. What's the point of going back and blaming 1999? What in God's name is the point of that? It must have been wrong.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0126par0494	Thank you, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0119par0495	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0126par0496	Lastly, Mr. Idris Baluken, the Congressman of Bingol.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0127par0497	Dear President, don't call me son. Dear President, don't say the last word, I want your word here.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0126par0498	Here you go, sir. Please, in a minute...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0128par0500	You gave everyone two minutes.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0129par0501	Let's make it even, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0126par0502	Here, two minutes, please...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0130par0505	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to start by greeting all of you. First of all, I pray to all our citizens who lost their lives in the bitter earthquake, God's mercy and immediate healing for the wounded. I've asked for a word here to clarify a few things that the Minister has stated. First of all, I'd like to point out that Mr. Secretary's words about the mayor are pure politics. The minister says he has not slept for three days, but for three days, the mayor is active in work in both the sleepless neighborhoods of Van. What we're saying about the mayor is that even though our president is calling the governor, he's not being dealt with, he's not being dealt with, and he's not being returned to him, and because of the lack of coordination with the province about it, our people are being victims there right now. We want the misinformation on this to be corrected. There is now a bulletin sent to all of our municipalities, and it has been issued to the crisis table of our municipality, not to send help to the coordination centre and to direct all aid only to the governorship. We know that at the point where the mayor's office has not managed to organise services, other than the municipal staff, our volunteers are currently trying to close that gap. I'd like to make a few more points. He said there are no damaged villages that are currently not being delivered to the tent. I'll tell him the information we've received from this very hour: the village of stew is over 1,500, over 200 households, and only 30 tents have arrived here. In the same way...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0131par0511	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0132par0512	Mr. President, I'd like a word with you about the agenda.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0131par0513	We're going on the agenda. I'm so sorry. Next time. There's been enough talk here.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0132par0515	So if this is an apology, I'm sorry. Please, Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0131par0516	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we move to the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There's a motion for a retraction of the gene motion, and I'm going to read it: 24.10.2011 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 6:10.2011. Minister of Internal Affairs İdris Naim Şahin (11/1), read in the Union, is the 99th Prime Minister of the Constitution. In accordance with the article, 2510.2011 is on the agenda. However, based on the great shared suffering of our country due to the Van earthquake, we are withdrawing our motion for the Gensorial. We'll make sure you know what's necessary. The gene motion has been returned and has been taken off the agenda.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0133par0527	He'll be back.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0131par0528	Dear lawmakers, there's a motion to resign from the commission, and I'm having them read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning as a member of the CIT Commission. I'd like to ask you to do what you need to do.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0134par0535	To the head of Fiver Atalay. Hopefully we'll read about his resignation here.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0131par0536	It has been presented to your knowledge. Now, there are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly One of the two employees in our country has been known to be off the books. Unregistered employment has caused problems in the social security system, causing unfair competition, and causing loss of rights and services for employees. Unregistered employment is felt by increasing its weight in both the economy and the labor market. Depending on that, prevention of unregistered employment and unregistered economy is one of the most fundamental elements of a sustainable social security system. Therefore, with respect to the opening of Parliamental Research under Articles 104 and 105 of the 98th Civil Charter in order to determine issues and measures to be taken in order to prevent unregistered employment. 1) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] [[Inconceived]] [[Malatya]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Gaziantep]] 11) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 12) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] [[Mughle]] 17) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] 18) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 19) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 20) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] 22) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 23) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution to investigate the negative effects of shopping malls and chain stores on our traditional trade system, to determine the necessary measures and proposals for solutions to overcome the detected problems. 1) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] [[Inconceived]] [[Malatya]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] 11) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Adıyaman]] 14) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Mersin]] 16) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Manisa]] [[Mughle]] 19) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] 20) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 21) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 23) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 24) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the reasons for the failure of the planned irrigation projects under the GAP, the completion of irrigation projects and the necessary measures to increase the economic and social development of local citizens, the 98th and the 104th and 105th of the Constitution, in order to determine the reasons for its failure to be completed. In accordance with the clauses, we respectfully submit the opening of Parliamental research. 1) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] 4) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] [[Malatya]] [[Inconceived]] [[Tunceli]] [[Gaziantep]] 9) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 13) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Mersin]] 17) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Manisa]] [[Mughle]] 20) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 21) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 22) Reza Mahmut Çürmen [[İzmir]] 23) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 26) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'm going to have it read and processed, and I'm going to vote for you. The following proposals were approved by the General Assembly at a meeting Tuesday (25/10/2011). This section of legislation, which is found in the ranks of 3, 4, 4, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, and 16 of other tasks, is ranked in the order of 3, 24, 41, 31, and 3. The General Assembly's 25/10/2011 jointly on Tuesday (today); after the presentations of the presidency, talks on the agenda of Law Bills and Proposals and other jobs from Commissions and continuing their work until 1900; It's recommended. Anybody want a word on the counseling board proposal? No. If not, those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, under the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Brazilian Federative Republic, in accordance with the Agreement for Agreement on Reciprocity. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of six rows. The first request for words on the whole bill is Ramadan Can, Kırıkkale, in the name of his people.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0135par0721	No, he won't.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0131par0722	He's not talking. Recep Special, Isparta...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0136par0724	He won't talk.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0131par0725	He's not talking. Emine Gültur Tarhan... no sir. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. REPUBLICATION OF REZILIAL REFECTIVE REPUBLICITY WITH THE COMPLICATION OF THE TURKEY REPLICATION The approval of the government of the Republic of Turkey, signed on May 27, 2010 in Brasilia, and the mutual administrative aid agreement between the Government of the Republic of Brazil and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil on Customs. Anyone? No. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Anyone? No. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Anyone want a word on the matter? No. I submit the third article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and even with this help, the members who can't get into the system will have their ballots delivered to the presidency within a three-minute period scheduled for a vote. (x) 6 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. I would also like to ask the ministers to vote in the three-minute period envisioned for the vote when they vote in whichever minister is acting, the color of the game and the ballot bearing its signature with its name and name. I'm starting the voting process.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0137par0748	Mr. President, I'm not voting here because you didn't promise me anything!
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0131par0749	Please sit down... please sit down... there's a time for everything. There's time, there's the Civil Code, there's rules. I'm asking you to go to sleep. That's it. [[The vote continued with the electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, I declare an open vote on the adoption of a Reciprocal Agreement on Reciprocal Aid between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Brazilian Federative Republic: ▪ Number of votes used : 227 [[x]] Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. Members of the law, we will begin negotiations between the Turkish Republic's Government and the Kuwaiti State Government in which it is appropriate to ratify the Agreement on the Reciprocity and Protection of Investments. The commission is in place. The government is in place. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 25 rows. We're negotiating on the entire bill. This is Mr. Alim Ik, MP of the National Movement Party, who wants word on the entire bill.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0138par0766	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Action Party Group regarding the Constitutional Movement Party's Plan on Approvaling Investments Between the Government of Turkey and the State of Kuwait, which is currently in session. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear MPs, at the beginning of my statement, as Mr. President-in-Chief stated at the group meeting today, it is their turn to cry after the earthquake in Van. I want to say that I strongly condemn approaches like this, and those who say so should be merciful. On this occasion, I wish God's mercy to the precious children of our beloved nation who lost their lives in Van. I pray to their relatives for their condolences and for the immediate healing of the wounded. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 25 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Mr. President, at the beginning of my statement, I'd like to say that the quota you've set for one minute is not correct. The quota that you've put into this right is not really understandable in the combinations that you've conducted, however, while every Acting Speaker outside of the House has made this right very comfortable. Besides, you're able to give a Mr. Secretary a 20-minute promise in exchange for a minute word from a couple of lawmakers. But I would like to express on behalf of our nation that there is no point in restricting every member of parliament's right to say a minute, from this stand, from this chair, from this seat of the Grand Assembly. (Applause from MHP rows) Mr. Vice President is one of the most experienced representatives of this House, and one of the most prominent members of the bureaucracy. If he sees a minute too much of the House's congresswoman, I say it's better to leave it to you worthy MPs and our fellow citizens who listen to us. In the last six months, the valuable lawmakers have once again found that the earthquake that occurred in Kütahya Province, Simav district, and the surrounding districts, on 23 October 2011, in Van's central and other districts, was necessary to live with the earthquake to our saint nation. Of course, it's a sad fact that even after more than five months of the Simav earthquake, the citizens did not see the compassion of the state hand they were waiting for. I'm just saying, I hope that after Van's earthquake is over, the death of our earthquake survivors in Van is not like Simav's earthquake victims. Because from that day on, the Simav earthquake zone has only been the market area of dwellings built through TOKI, and in another sense, it has not been the cause of the nation's problems. Can you imagine, in the 21st century, I want to build a house on my own land? The authorities say: "No, you can't do it there, if you want to buy housing from the dwellings made by the TOKI. Dear lawmakers, with such understanding, this country is not to be ruled. You can't say that to people who've suffered from earthquakes, injured, lost property, property. Now that we have a heavier one in Van, I hope no similar practice will be brought to them. So the buildings built by TOKI would not have to be victims of earthquakes. Especially if these buildings are five or six miles from downtown, and they're built at the top of the mountain, you can't pull that citizen out there. Now, I wish the government would reconsider that understanding. On the other hand, if the Deputy Prime Minister is coming here and doing politics referring to the 1999 earthquake, that understanding should be changed by now. First, this head will change. If this doesn't change, people will continue to break each other on this day in the House. Within five or six hours of the 1999 earthquake, five or six ministers of that day's government arrived there. It would not suit the Deputy Prime Minister, especially on a day like this, to remind him of a three-day earthquake in which the state was destroyed.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0139par0774	Get on the agenda, don't bring it up.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0138par0775	I'll be on the agenda. I've got plenty of time. Don't worry, I'll come up with it. Dear lawmakers, unfortunately, these earthquakes remain the subject of political abuse during the AKP's rule. See, in the Simav earthquake, the aid supplies for the Red were distributed by the ruling party's electoral instruments and the subject of abuse. Our friends say that there were similar ones in the van, those who went there and saw them. If the mayors delay handing over a tent, a blanket, which the citizen needs by the hands of the chiefs, you will not see the citizen with you. In the simav earthquake, those painful truths took place. The mayor was given tents for those who didn't need them, but the people of the town where the mayor was from another party were able to get the tent three days later. I would like to come to the point of Kuwait now, wishing that these painful examples would not take place in Van. We contribute and approve this contract as the National Movement Party Group. This protocol, which aims to bring trade agreements and economic ease between the two countries, is a proper protocol, and we think it's right to approve. The agreement was signed on 27 May 2010 by Mr. Finance Minister for the Government of the Republic of Turkey and Mr. Minister of Trade and Industry on behalf of the Kuwait government and brought to the agenda of our Parliament today. The Agreement consists of 12 articles, usually with a standard text similar to that of other international agreements. However, the two items that I think you're getting attention from, although others are written in Turkish with a title, Articles 10 and Article 11 were included in this text with English headlines. This is an example of the quick, random, procedure of the Agreement, and not being meticulously prepared. I'd like to share with you the idea that if it were to be corrected, we'd make a better law. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, the Gulf countries are countries that have recently been watched by our governments and have been focused on efforts to increase relations. Kuwait is one of them. As a matter of fact, a visit by Mr. President Gul on December 21st 2009 marked the importance of economic relations between the two countries after a ten-year visit to the presidential level, when Kuwaiti businessmen and Turkish businessmen held talks together. On the other hand, on 15 March 2010, Emiri, who had been quoted by the officials in Turkey as saying that the Kuwaiti Emir would invest $3 billion in Turkey, said they were particularly interested in the real estate, the real estate sector in Turkey, some of the stock market's portfolios and tourism investments. However, at this meeting, which was said to be a surprise in 2010, it is really a question of how much of this $3 billion investment has come under the influence of the crisis, which began at the end of 2008 and continued in 2009, but it is known to all of us that most of it has not come. On 8 January 2011, Mr. Prime Minister paid visits to Kuwait and Qatar, and in these visits, very hot images were reflected in the press and media of both countries, as was once seen in the Syrian example. Hopefully, they won't end up where we come in these days between Syria and Turkey. Because once upon a time, we can be very close to each other, and we can change into countries where we're in friendship, and we can act almost as if we're enemies. I don't think this inconsistencies should at least be happening in Kuwait and other Gulf countries. So what is the economic and commercial nature of relations with Kuwait? What is the significance of this relationship when we evaluate Kuwait and Turkey in some general indicators? I want to address a few sentences as well. Kuwait has about one per twenty-twoths of our country's population, one fifth of the facial measurement, and one fifth of Turkey's non-national revenues are four times the national income per capita in our country compared to the five-to-one income. In a nutshell, Turkey is considered a very wealthy country. Exports and import numbers are one-and-a-half of Turkey's exports, the number of imports is one-sixth of our country, and unemployment is about five to one-sixths of Turkey's unemployment rate. It is a country with a high level of economic prosperity, but Kuwait has a typical feature: 70 per cent of its population of about 3.5 million people are foreigners, so foreign businessmen who go there are able to find a Kuwaiti guarantor and adapt to the established system and live there. What products stand out between Turkey and Kuwait in terms of our foreign trade relations in Kuwait, and when we look at them, we see oil and processed oil products and fertilizer coming from the main export products of Kuwait. Speaking of which, I wish Mr. Food, Agriculture and Petting Minister were here today. The price of 20/20 fertilizers, described in the last month, has been nearly doubled. The cost of fertilizer, 700 TL/tons a month ago, is $1,200 in advance today, if the deadline kicks in, 1,400-1. It goes up to 500 TL, and the manufacturers have trouble finding fertilizer. I'd like to share with you the fact that this House needs to resolve this matter immediately. When we look at imported products, products such as food products, construction materials, transportation and transportation, and clothing come first. If major export countries are ranked in the first place, Japan, South Korea, India, Taiwan are coming in, and Turkey has a 3.6-percent share between the top ten countries, with its share of Kuwait exports. According to import numbers: In imports, Kuwait is buying imported products from countries such as the United States, China, Germany. Its share of imports from Turkey is around 1% of all imports. Summarised: Friendship relations between Turkey and Kuwait have improved, but it has the potential to be removed, to be expected to develop in parallel trade relations with this development, if relationships are properly adjusted, if the example of foreign policy in Syria, Iran and other countries is not applied to this country, I believe long-term friendship relations will increase in parallel, I say. When we look at the products that are particularly prominent in Turkey's exports, iron steel products lead, textiles, fibers and products, electric machines and equipment, vegetables fruit and other agricultural products. So Kuwait stands out as one of the most important countries to assess Turkey's agricultural potential. In contrast, what are Turkey's basic import products from Kuwait, organic chemical products and plastic mammoths, especially anorganic chemicals, radioactive rare elements and compounds, and stone coal tar, oil-based and plastic-based products, such as crude oil products. Of course, this isn't the first deal with the Kuwaiti government, and it won't be the last. Prior to this, nine agreements have been signed that began in the 1970s and continued to date. This agreement bears the 10th Agreement between Kuwait and Turkey's governments. I wish this agreement with Kuwait to be a blessing to both countries, and I hereby salute again and again the High Assembly with the mercy of God, and the swift healing of the wounded, to all our citizens who lost their lives in the earthquake and the terror that occurred before it.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0140par0796	Thank you, Mr. Light. The second statement on the entire bill is from İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu. Mr. Aslanoglu, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0141par0800	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I bow to whoever's investing in Turkey, and I bow to whoever's employing. We are not opposed to this agreement, but do we provide for the people who invest in Turkey? My two ministers are here, one is Minister, one is Minister of Tourism, and I have words for both of them. One: Mr. Secretary, you are everything to the SME, the small industrialists, and you are responsible for them. I've been fighting for nine years. The ones who invest in Leasing, the ones who invest in the small machine, the ones who don't get credit from the bank, the banks don't give loans to them, the ones who can only get financing from the banks because they own the machine, the ones who can't get funding from the banks, only because they own the machine. But they still have zero VATs in advance imports, but when my poor COBI went and bought the machine from leasing, which is investment goods, it was 18 percent first, so I finally ran out of hair to say it, and they brought it to eight. It's unfair competition. It is your duty, Mr. Secretary, to look after the SMEs, to encourage them to invest. But unfortunately, in some investment goods -- not all -- a COBI -- if it's going to go and buy a machine, it's going to leave -- because it can't get loans from banks, the banks won't give loans. The banks can only withdraw the goods whenever they want, because the owner of the machine is leasing, because he passed it on to the company after he's out of debt. Mal leasin, not that little industrialist. But that's where he gets the credit. But, Mr. Secretary, you don't take care of it. All investment goods of all SMEs should have a zero VAT. In addition, if he did it with 8, 8, 18, the VAT rate is 18, and the service bills are billed to the SMEs, leasings. Mr. Minister, the SMEs are the country's most basic laboring, employment-making stone. But unfortunately, for some reason, some doors close in Turkey to small industry, medium-sized companies. They don't have credit, they don't have credit; you have to take care of them. The machine they make, you have to use zero VAT in imports or purchases of equipment, but unfortunately it doesn't. Even the monthly installments that the leasings are billing -- which bill? 8 is 8, 18 is 18 over 18 is the VAT being loaded, Mr. Minister. It's a shame! In other imports, there's no VAT, no cash imports from the bank. It's unfair competition, unfair competition. We have to move this. Friends, this country is ours. Again, I bow to whoever's creating jobs in this country, who's producing, but you don't claim it. First we have to do the practice that protects the rights of small investors in this country. Same thing in tourism. Hotel... tourism is an important sector of Turkey. Only in tourism, some of the machines, equipment, and investment goods are provided with incentives. For example, it's put in the elevator, put in the boiler room. It's given to equipment, to bed, to furniture -- it's an investment, it's an investment in the hotel, which means the bed is an investment in the hotel, and the furniture is an investment, but unfortunately it's not, and 18 percent is applied. These people are then billed under the restitution of the VAT, which he then pays... he cuts the service bill, he puts people to bed, and the VAT he receives there is returned in five years, six years. Friends, the money is precious. Money that comes back to me in five years, six years is not money. Whatever investment he's making, that investment, that machine, that equipment, that business's a non-compulsive charter, all of which should be put into zero VAT. These people are hotels... so they can only get their money back six years later in tourism investments. Six years later, the money's worth nothing. These people are already in financial difficulty. My dear friends, this is it. Not only that, Mr. Secretary, but they've raised the funds to 6 per cent in one day of future imports from 3 per cent. Friends, from 3 per cent to 6 per cent a day. So the Fund for Supporting Source Use is zero in advance imports. I'm telling you again, if any firm is going to go in and import in advance, the Fund for Supporting Resource Use is zero, but poor people, small businesses, only if they're importing it in a future manner is 6%. First of all, these people are starting to lose 1-0. There's a very significant cost difference between 0 and 6 percent of a product, folks. But for some reason, they moved it from 3 percent to 6 percent in one night, last month, new.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0142par0810	It's been 15 days, 15 days.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0141par0811	It's new. Again, a leasing and factoring in this country... is the only door in this country that is being knocked on by the leasings, friends, the small industry in this country. The minimum gives him five years, wins and pays; he buys a machine, he wins, and he pays his debt in that way. And because the stuff is leasing, it's easy to get funding. If a business wants to get a loan from a bank and buy a machine, the banks won't give a loan if it doesn't have a huge credit value. It's easy to give because of the fact that the product is leasing, but unfortunately, in this country, it's still a leasing and factoring law -- even though we've been saying it for nine years -- why, why, who wouldn't, why wouldn't it? I'm having a hard time understanding this, guys. It's all yours. First, I bow to the people of this country, in this country -- I stress it -- to whoever's investing, who's employing, once again. Give your hand to the people I bow to with this respect. You're not reaching out to them. These are the institutions that employ three people, five people, 10 people, 20 people, 50 people. We have to take care of them. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0143par0816	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Anyone else want another word on the whole bill? No. Who wants to ask questions in the QA? No. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed... by those who don't... those who don't... are accepted. With the government of the Republic of Turkey, the government of the Republic will continue to carry out the construction of the law on the basis of the understanding of the understanding of the protection and protection of the establishment of the law. MADDE 1-1-1 (1) was approved on May 27, 2010 in Kuwait, with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Kuwaitan State of Investments Agreement for Reciprocity and Protection. Anyone want a word on the matter? No. As it does not exist, I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Anyone want a word on the matter? No. As it does not exist, I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Anyone want a word on the matter? No. I submit the third article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who don't accept... those who don't. I'll start the voting process and give you three minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliaments, I move that the Court of the Republic of Turkey and the State of Kuwait have an open vote on the ratification of Investments' Agreement for Mutual Instigation and Protection: ▪ Number of votes used : 263 [[x]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin talks by the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the State of Turkey's Foreign Affairs Report, which is in the 3rd place between the Government of Turkey and the Government of the Brazilian Federative Republic, to prevent Double Taxation and Anti-Tax Trafficking Agreement, and to approve the Eki Protocol. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report has been printed and distributed by 27 rows of numbers. On behalf of the National Party's Party for Action Group, MP Lütfü Türkkan wants to speak on the whole bill. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0144par0850	I salute Mr. President and his esteemed members of our High Council. I stand before you among the governments of Turkey and Brazil to give you an audience on behalf of the MHP Group regarding the Agreement to Avoid Double Taxation and Obstruction of Tax Trafficking and Approval of Eki Protocol. On this occasion, I pray for the mercy of our citizens who lost their lives in the Van. I pray for the patience they left behind. We've just watched the Minister inform the House about the work at the earthquake site. However, we have heard from our group's deputy president and deputies and other party representatives who have gone to the region as to the setbacks there. I fully agree with the Minister's remarks. It's a pain we live with as a nation. Not having politics over this pain should be our ultimate goal. Indeed, at this time we have friends who have suffered a great deal in the earthquake -- I'm the Kopeli MP -- who suffered serious pain in both the lines of the Justice and Development Party and my own group, who have lost a lot of relatives. They know this pain really well. I totally agree that it's not right to put politics on top of this pain, but it's not appropriate for an older man like Mr. Secretary, who's experienced, who's aged, who's had a lot of trouble about the practices of the National Movement Party's government that day, referring to the earthquake 12 years ago. In response to the Minister's remarks about where we should be helping a friend from our group earlier, should we do it to the Lighthouse? If the Lighthouse is an institution that accepts help today, then our Congressman friend has raised a sincere question as to whether or not to help this institution. If the Lighthouse issue is so disturbing, it must be the government's duty to do what's necessary. Instead of angering, abandoning, insulting questions about the Lighthouse, he has to stop interfering with the Lighthouse case and do what he has to do. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 27 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0145par0858	The Lighthouse is the work of the judge, not the government.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0144par0859	I didn't know Mr. Mehmet Metiner had a problem with the Lighthouse case, and I've learned that too. Hopefully it'll be over soon.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0145par0860	Don't confuse the work of the judgment with the government's work.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0144par0861	Sir, we are delighted to hear that the earthquakes were being carried out by NGOs to participate in serious rescue efforts by improving themselves after 99 earthquakes. In places where the government is really underprivileged, NGOs have given real support. I say to them, "God bless them all, no matter who comes to them from here, no matter which city they send." I'd also like to point out that I'm obsessed with a statement from Mr. Demirtaş. I didn't find it very meaningful to thank you for the help from the West. For I see the same in the land, and in the land, and in the land of Edirne. Just as there's no need to thank the help from the east, as well as the help from the east, to help an earthquake from the east, to help the north, to help the south, because the people who died there are our relatives. Mr. Demirtaş, the more his heart hurts, the more our hearts hurt. Here, I think such a distinction is unnecessary, but I, for one, take that as a painful expression, a good-willed statement.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0146par0863	There were people who didn't throw it out, we said it, we said it.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0144par0864	Thank you. The most important issue about the earthquake is that the earthquake, although less than 99 earthquakes, has caused much more damage. I don't know if you noticed. And the reason is that Ahmet Mete Ikara says that the city doesn't kill, the building kills. So far, we've paid $23 billion in earthquake taxes, $23 billion. If there are any authorities who can account for how many buildings, how many public buildings, how many public buildings have been repaired and strengthened, let them answer, but in 2004, when then Finance Minister Kemal Unakitan was asked a question as to where the earthquake taxes were going, we received an installment of the IMF, and we paid that installment. So we've paid the IMF payments with the life of our citizen who's now in a wreck in Van. $23 billion is a very important number. It's one of the most important rights of our citizens to ask our government for an explanation of where this number is being spent. I'm going to say a few things about TOKI. TOKI expressed words that she would do very serious work in that area. That's the Minister's statement. TOKI has built 110,000 dwellings in eight years, social housing. He's got a lot of condos, but they're all very serious, and they're all sold with millions of dollars. 110,000 dwellings make 12,500 dwellings a year. If you divide it into 81 districts, it has built 150 homes each year, housing. So we can't solve the social housing problem by building 150 homes in each county. Instead of building luxury dwellings, I consider it the government's duty to make the TOKİHI (TİKİKİ) a social home rather than an institution that distributes rants. Let's get down to business right now. Turkey began signing agreements with third countries to prevent double taxation in 1970. So far, we've signed an agreement with over 80 countries to prevent double taxation. A large part of them have also been implemented. When we approach the issue from the general framework, these agreements have two important functions. The first is solving the international double tax problem, and the second is preventing taxpayers from tax evasion or tax evasion by harmonising entity legislation related to taxation. In taxation, the rule is that the tax issue should be taxed once. It is against tax justice and equality to be taxed on the same matrix, during the same period, and to be taxed on the same quality. As a matter of fact, the agreements to avoid double taxation are either made to decide whether the income should be taxed in one of the countries or the right to taxation between the two countries. Thus, the agreement between Turkey and the third countries is aimed at preventing double taxation on the income from capital, technology and services transferred to one of the entity states under the framework of possible economic and technical co-operation. It is also envisioned to increase the benefits of economic and commercial relations and labor movement. Here's a key point: Once the agreements are in effect, they gain the law force and cannot be applied to the Constitutional Court for violation of the Constitution. Therefore, we must be careful to ensure that every clause of the agreement protects the interests of our country and our citizens in a manner that will not leave any room for hesitation. What's the best use of these deals? It's like I just described the theoretical situation. Obviously, these agreements are necessary and useful. In addition, the content of these agreements with other countries is about the same. So the text of the agreement with Brazil or (A) country does not make much difference except in some specific details of the two countries. However, when it comes to implementation, it is necessary to pay attention to the following points and, of course, to ask the AKP government, which has been in power for nine years on its own. What's the best use of these deals? How much is our export growing, not just our total volume of trade with the countries in agreement? What is the status of our export against import pens and numbers? In other words, is the revenue from the country's exported goods and services less than the money it receives from abroad? So the current is available? How do these agreements affect foreign investments in Turkey and Turkish investments in entity countries? Despite all the pink paintings drawn by AKP Power, the Central Bank's figures unfortunately deny the government, showing that its current monster surrounds the country like an octopus. How? Let's take a look together. Cari found $54 billion, 261 million, up 102.4 per cent, the same period last year, during the January-August 2011 open period. Let's look at it as a stranger. The Financial Times, dated October 18, 2011, warns on the sustainability of Turkey's growth performance and says: "We can describe Turkey's current deficit as the biggest stain in the economy." The newspaper also gives the following views: it is increasingly difficult to pay Turkey's debts. Turkish lira has lost more than 20 per cent of value to dollars and euros in the last year, paying the price for low interest rates and current items. Turkey has been unable to become a safe port in spite of its pride record over the past few years, due to its addiction to industrialised economies in trade and especially financing. The fall of the lira increased their anxiety that it would fuel inflation, causing problems in the growth of the loan. A graph of the IMF's latest World Economic View Report points to the risk of financial crisis among the G20 countries and among the countries' economies in Turkey. A speech of his own on the day our President opens the House confirms that. Our country, which we pride ourselves on increasing exports, only has to import $82 for exports. So let's accept the fact that only 18 percent of Turkey's exports are real exports, instead of taking advantage of the exponential figures. I don't know, does the AKP government still have something to say in the economy in the face of this painting, which is based on local-foreign sources?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0147par0878	It's obvious what he's gonna do.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0144par0879	The point where the work brings Turkey to its destination is clear. Hopefully, from now on, this will do better until the last day of power, the 2015 elections. The agreement with Brazil was signed on 16 December 2010 by the Minister of State Egemen Dona and the Brazilian Foreign Minister on behalf of Turkey in Iguassu. However, the draft law on the adoption of the agreement submitted to parliament during the previous legislature was invalided according to the 77th Amendment of the Parliamentary Charter, as it failed to meet the June 2011 elections, and was primarily applied to the views of the Plan and Budget Commissions on Foreign Affairs on 22 September 2011. This bill aims to address the development of capital, technology and service movements between Turkey and Brazil, as well as the solution to problems created by double taxation in the development of these actions, and mutually boosting investments in the two countries. In other words, it is intended for Brazilian investors to make Turkey more attractive to Turkish investors and Brazil more attractive to Turkish investors. I'd like to give you some numbers on our exports and imports of Brazil. These are the figures from 2005 to 2009. In 2005, we exported $103,000 to Brazil, $103 million, and we import $798 million. In 2006-2007, this is accelerating much faster. In 2008, our exports were $318 million, and our imports were $1,423,000. In 2009, it was exported to $388m, $1 billion 105 million. I want to point out one more thing about Brazil: Brazil is one of the most important agricultural exports in the world in terms of plantable agricultural areas. About 45 per cent of the import of oil seed in Turkey is imported from Brazil. As long as this process continues, the Brazilian pressure on oil seed imports will bring along the fat shortage we suffered during the next period in Turkey, at 78, during our college period. Remember, back in '78, we had grocery friends to buy you oil. With this agricultural policy of Turkey, with Brazil's rapid jump in agriculture, I'm realizing that with its imports concentrated from Brazil, we're going to come to the oil lines a little bit more. Dear lawmakers, the picture and current story of which I presented in general at the beginning of my speech is the same for our business and economic relations with Brazil. Therefore, the issue is not to discuss articles similar to agreements made with other countries in the agreement with Brazil to avoid double taxation. The main problem is that these agreements provide the benefit of our country, our investors, and for that, the answers to these questions are available. Can we create financial and financial measures as well as structural solutions to solve the Cari open problem? What measures do we take to support export growth with structural measures to boost our industry's competitiveness? Are we taking any measures to increase the production of domestic goods and reduce interim imports? Are you taking measures to reduce our input costs, especially energy, to increase our competitiveness in exports, Mr. Secretary? Your Honor, I give you all the respect for listening to my speech. Mr. President, with all due respect, thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0148par0889	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. Mr. Metiner, is something wrong, sir?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0149par0891	Sir, Mr. President has made a mockery of my name. I want to exercise my right to answer.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0148par0892	Sir?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0149par0893	They made a mockery of me, referring to my name. Connecting with Lighthouse.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0150par0894	He's out of line!
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0149par0895	They brought a charge against me because of my discomfort with the Lighthouse. I want to answer him.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0151par0896	Your position, please.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0149par0897	Okay.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0151par0898	Wait a minute. Give me an answer.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0152par0899	No way.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0153par0900	What kind of job is this? He's beating the crap out of you, he's answering...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0154par0901	I mean, he's talking shit, he's responding.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0155par0902	Here, you direct it.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0156par0905	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0154par0906	We have these problems every time you rule the House. I assume you have a problem with that. And last semester, the Clave got mixed up because of you, and this time, unfortunately...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0156par0907	You're going to talk, and no one else is going to answer you? Is that your idea of democracy?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0157par0908	Did you get permission?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0158par0909	Sir, please... please, please... please, please... let's hear the call.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0159par0910	You're disrupting the House.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0158par0911	I gave him a minute. Please... Here you go.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0160par0913	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0161par0914	Did you ask the Prime Minister's permission? Are you standing behind that article? Say that first.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0158par0915	Here you go, Mr. Metiner. MEHMET METINER (Name) - There is nothing wrong with Mehmet Metiner, or any of our fellow deputies from our group.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0162par0917	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0163par0918	But when it comes to the Ergenekon case, I declare that someone who sings from the highest stage when it comes to the Lighthouse case is both a prosecutor and a judge and an executioner, with the voice of an MP, with style, with the way of a politician, and I condemn it and the way he behaves.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0164par0919	You're the last to condemn me!
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0163par0920	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0165par0922	Mr. Prime Minister will not forgive Mr. Mehmet Metiner. Even if he forgives, his speech won't be enough.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0166par0923	Thank you, thank you. Mr. Sakek, you've stepped in. Here you go. Is something wrong, sir?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0167par0925	No, I'll ask the Minister a question later, it's not relevant.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0166par0926	Then, okay... question-answer... [[Continue]] Congressmans, the second speaker is on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Tanju Özcan. Here you are, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Bolu MP.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0168par0935	Mr. President, very dear MPs, I salute you all with love and respect as I begin my words. As with the speakers before me, I'd like to start by expressing that I'm having difficulty speaking because of the sadness we're experiencing here. Indeed, our country has been experiencing one of its most painful times recently. On the one hand, we have hundreds of citizens who have lost their lives in the earthquake disaster of Van. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I'd like to begin by congratulating our soldiers and policemen, as well as our citizens who have lost their lives in Van. Mr. President, there are certain issues that I will share with you as a member of a city that suffered an earthquake 12 years ago. I want to share some thoughts and feelings. Congressmans, most of you may not have experienced the earthquake or what happened during the earthquake, or what happened after the earthquake, and we certainly do have living friends. Twelve years ago, I was a friend of yours who suffered two major earthquakes in Bolu. One of them occurred on August 17, 1999 in Lakeduk. Again, the two earthquakes in Arifija... I call them all the Marmara Earthquakes. Turkey was shaken by the earthquake at 03.02, and Bolu was shaken by the earthquake. Thankfully, there were not men who died in Bolu, but there were those who were wounded, and there were buildings that were damaged, and there were no buildings that were destroyed. But like our fellow countrymen in Yalova, we experienced the fear of death with everyday aftershocks, such as our fellow countrymen in Adapazari, and were forced to live in our homes for months, in our vehicles and tents. We've overcome our full fear, so let's go back to our normal lives. This time at exactly 18.57 p.m. on November 12th, an earthquake of 7.2 magnitude occurred in our mother-in-law district, which is 20km away from the central base of Bolu. I was in the car during that earthquake. I thought it was a flat tire, and then when I realized it was an earthquake, the seconds felt like hours. As soon as the earthquake was over, a cloud of dust covered Bolu. The people who cried out, the buildings that collapsed, the people who asked for help under the rubble, there was a real life market that day in Bolu, and in Düzce. Hundreds of people died, many people were crippled, and again many children were left without parents. It was a tragedy. It's been hours since the earthquake, and this time the hunger has appeared, both cold and hungry. Think about it, it's minus 5 degrees, it's 3:00 a.m., search and rescue continues. At the head of the wreckage, the rescue crews ask the question, "Is there anyone there? " Again, the people who were under that building pray and weep. For the rest, other problems are coming up. His house has been badly damaged, perhaps destroyed, his debt money was destroyed, and he asks himself, "What am I going to do?" Every minute. Hours pass, people keep getting hungry. Not a single oven works, not a supermarket, not a single grocery store. At that time, I'll never forget that people line up hundreds of meters of bread for the warm bread sent by a city. Here's the valued lawmakers, I didn't go to Van, but I know what happened here, maybe better than anyone. The painting is so bad, like after every earthquake. Here, the speakers before me stated that the crisis coordination centre does not work. It is natural that if you send people from the earthquake to coordinate the aid of the earthquake, this is what will happen. In the van, people need everything, they need blankets, they need tents, they need catalytics, they need food, they need drink. Therefore I call upon all my citizens: both my people and my people in Hakkari, both in Tripoli, and in Edirne, they must share their resources with our countrymen in Van. The people in the van are looking for morale. I think we're gonna have to build a bridge of help. But, of course, I can't pass without making this call: Please help by means of a health care organization. I'm asking you not to help charity that you don't know where your help has been taken, but help through the Turkish Red Cross. Dear friends, valued lawmakers have just spoken on behalf of my friend's group of MHPs about the private communication tax and the special processing tax. These taxes were temporarily removed in order to heal the wounds of the Marmara earthquake in the 57th government, but I calculated it -- not $23 billion, but 28 billion -- were collected by the government of the AKP and about 90 percent, and since it was seen as a sweet gain, the special communication tax was made permanent. So I asked him today with a question proposal, and I said, "Where did you spend this $28 billion?" How much will Van get out of this? I asked if you had used this money to make master plans to coordinate the earthquake relief efforts, or if you'd squandered it elsewhere to strengthen damaged buildings. I'm waiting for an answer to that. Mr. President, very valuable members, I'm here on behalf of my group to share my thoughts on the agreement between Brazil and the Republic of Turkey today. First of all, I would like to point out that the international agreement signed is in the interest of the state of Brazil and the Republic of Turkey and is supported by our party. But if you'll excuse me when I say Brazil, I'd like to mention a few things. I'd like to make a comparison. You remember 12 years ago, there was an economic crisis in both Turkey and Brazil, and after the economic crisis, the economic indicators of both countries were roughly the same. In the past 12 years, both countries have grown, but with one difference: Turkey grew by consumption, by producing Brazil. At the end of 12 years, Brazil became a country that gave more and more, while Turkey became a country that set a record in the open. Brazil became a lender 12 years later in international markets, while Turkey remained a country still seeking loans with appropriate interest. Turkey has doubled its debt in ten years, and Brazil has significantly melted its debt. Unfortunately, that's the difference between the mentality of two countries' rulers and the understanding of governance. Of course, when you say Brazil, an important issue comes to mind. Brazil is also one of the world's largest white meat producers. Brazil is third in the world at the point of white meat production. In exports, it's the first one by far. Brazil is doing 45 percent of the world's white meat exports alone. Turkey again took a step towards producing white meat after the 1980s. In the years of self - worth - to - be - to - be - to - be - to - be - to have serious support has also been given. However, especially after the AKP government came to work, the white meat sector began to count and even began to go backwards. Today, Brazil is doing 45 percent of the world exports we see as rivals, and as Turkey, we can't even do one percent more. Turkey, again, is far behind the world on white meat consumption, far behind the European Union. However, valuable lawmakers, white meat production, despite everything, is one of Turkey's most promising sectors. It is also a sector ready to make a major breakthrough in the way it solves its problems. In that sense, I think it should be supported by the government, at least it shouldn't be compromised. Dear MPs, the province of Bolu, where I represent, is the capital of chicken farming in Turkey. Bolu alone meets close to 30 per cent of white meat production. Thousands of families make a living as chickens. Therefore, I would like to make some suggestions as a friend of yours, a member of parliament who knows the problems of the white meat industry. In my opinion, the problems of the chicken industry must be divided into the problems of the owners and the problems of the manufacturers. So, what's the problem with the owners? One is the height of production costs. It's a very important problem. Here, if I remind you that we're addicted to imports related to corn and soy, if I remind you of high customs taxes, it'll probably make sense. At the export point, support for the producers of other countries, support for business owners, unfortunately, is not in Turkey. Turkey is still dependent on outside breeding. At the white meat point in Turkey, consumption is still very poor, and as a state, it needs to be supported. Again, there must be some serious incentives in the chicken field. So, what are the problems with small manufacturers? It's one of the biggest problems that small manufacturers can't compete against big producers. Again, it is a very important factor that the manufacturers are not supported by the state, that they are not exempted from certain issues. Again, in many cities, especially in Bolu Province, there have been ex-government loans, especially in the days of Ozal, which have been made with state loans. When the government made these loans, they said to the citizens: "Do it, brother, and I'll give you credit for it. I support you seriously, and I don't look for a license, so start producing it right away. This is what the citizen did. You know what the same government does now? You've done this without a license in the past, but I don't understand it anymore. From now on, I'll look for a license. He says, and he goes further, and he starts sealing these henhouses today. I said Bolu covers about 30 percent of the white meat industry. There are about 6,000 unregistered henhouses and 300 registered henhouses in Bolu. Now, do you have any idea what would happen if you tried to license 6,000 of these clusters, or if you tried to shut them down, seal them off because they were unlicensed?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0169par0958	Off the record...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0168par0959	No, not off the record. Thousands of people in Turkey and Bolu are victims, they're miserable, and you're taking a very important hit at the production of white meat. Dear friends, before I bring this issue to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I've brought it to the Minister's agenda, and I've made an appointment with Mr. Secretary. I said: Mr. Minister, there is such a thing in Bolu. In Bolu, about 10,000 people receive direct income from chicken farming. Local authorities, who are government and government officials, are not even taking steps to resolve the problem in Bolu. Dear friends, unregistered henhouses are the problem of Bolu. Because the sealing process has begun, billions of fines are being issued for each henhouse, but tomorrow, it will soon become Turkey's problem. I'm just saying, the chicken business is gonna get a lot worse than that.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0170par0963	You want him to work unlicensed?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0168par0964	I didn't say it wasn't registered. I gave this to the Minister in writing, as well as my proposals. I said, look, you've issued a decree on a law. It's in the Constitution of Law No. 648. In this regard, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and the Ministry of Agriculture -- with the new name of the Food, Agriculture and Petty Ministry -- will draft a regulation. He'll still make it. We thought if there were any of these elements in this regulation, we'd solve this problem once and for all. We reached out to him in good faith, but unfortunately, despite a month and a half ago -- I'm complaining to you -- they didn't even turn around and say, "We've done this study on this subject." Mr. President, the issue of unlicensed henhouses must be resolved immediately, both in Bolu, and in Turkey. The legal arrangements for this must be made immediately. That's not enough, but some cities, especially Bolu, should be seriously encouraged to have a say in the world about the white meat industry. Otherwise, from this point on, the chicken industry, the white meat industry, is unlikely to move forward. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0171par0967	Mr. President, is this about the government or Brazil?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0168par0968	I will, sir, the part about Brazil. Of course, last week Turkey didn't just talk about the earthquake. Turkey also spoke at the beginning of my words, our martyrs. In all the provinces of Turkey, almost all the terrorist rallies about our martyrs were held, their march was held. I wondered why Turkey was so sensitive about this. Since 2003, during the AKP administration, we have given nearly 1,000 casualties, soldiers and police. In 2001, there were almost no martyrs in 2002. Now we've given almost a thousand martyrs. A thousand martyrs in nine years. Now, our so-called world leader, Mr. Prime Minister, comes out, walks around with world leader poses, tries to design the Middle East, tries to cast a role in Syria, Egypt, Libya, but still can't stop the blood flowing in the country. I'm talking about the world leader!
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0172par0972	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0173par0973	Friends, please... please...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0168par0974	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the fire has caught fire in the chimney. Other than the usual slogans about these terrorist incidents, slogans began to come out.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0174par0975	Don't make politics out of blood.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0168par0976	For example, do you know what one of these was? Why does a citizen say that?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0174par0977	The citizen told me on June 12th.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0168par0978	Do you know why the citizen says that? Because the government was surprised, and the citizens were impatient. Our citizen, the AKP government...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0175par0979	Tell me about the unlicensed henhouses!
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0176par0980	Mr. Orator, would you please get to the point?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0168par0981	Coming, sir. I'll tie you up.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0176par0982	There's nothing you haven't processed.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0168par0983	I will, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0176par0984	Please...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0168par0985	Sir, the citizen is sending a message to the AKP government. It says, "We want the government, not the one who negotiates terrorism, but the one who fights terrorism." Not the government who drinks tea with terrorists in Oslo.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0176par0986	Please...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0168par0987	He says we want a heroic government at Kandil....who fights terrorists to the chest and chest.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0177par0988	Congressman, it doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0168par0989	Our people don't want to see pictures of terrorists being greeted at Habur. Just like he wants to see a picture of the leader of the terrorist organization captured and taken with his neck bent and handcuffed under the Turkish flag. Our people send this message to the government.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0177par0990	Please don't agitate.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0178par0991	Mr. President, why don't you invite him to the point, sir?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0168par0992	In the final sentence: there are now two options left in front of the AKP government. Two options remain before the AKP government. He will either fight terrorism like a man and become a hero to Turkish history, and continue to negotiate with this government and Prime Minister or terror, and become known as the Son-in-law Ferit Pasha and take his place on the history page.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0179par0994	There's no negotiations on terrorism, there's a war on terror.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0168par0995	There's no other way. It's the government's decision to make...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0180par0997	Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0181par0998	First you'll know the matter, then you'll talk.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0182par0999	Ask Metin Bey if he has permission.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0183par1000	You're the ones to decide. Why don't you listen patiently? The one who came here... the one who came here...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0184par1002	Then get to the point.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0183par1003	I'm sorry, Mr. President... why aren't you interfering?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0184par1004	Come on the agenda, come on the agenda.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0185par1005	Mr. Özcan, please talk about the matter.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0183par1006	Sir, I'm talking about the matter.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0185par1007	There's nothing you haven't been through. I'm asking you...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0183par1008	Mr. President, very valuable members, we have something to say.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0186par1009	You didn't, you didn't!
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0185par1010	Please... please...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0183par1011	The Prime Minister and the AKP government now have to make their position on terrorism clear. That's what the public expects of him.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0187par1013	Bravo, bravo! Congratulations!
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0183par1014	I'm saying millions of people walking the streets expect that from him.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0188par1015	Millions didn't choose you for him, did they? Millions buried you in the trunk.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0183par1016	I wish that the Agreement between Turkey and Brazil would be good for both sides. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0189par1019	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan. My dear friends...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0190par1021	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0189par1022	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0190par1023	However, the speaker needs to make a correction. No government of the Republic of Turkey drinks tea with the terrorist.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0191par1024	What if he drinks? Did you drink in Oslo? Did the apocalypse break out?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0190par1025	To correct that for using such a false expression here... no government of the Republic of Turkey will drink tea with a terrorist who has come, has come, has come, and will come.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0192par1026	Your words are on the record, thank you very much. Dear friends, there are no further demands on the entire bill.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0193par1028	Secret Bey has a question.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0192par1029	I just asked him, he said no.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0193par1030	After the speech, questions are being asked, the president, the whole conversation...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0192par1031	Mr. Sakık, here you are, sir. Wait a minute... In the process of answering questions, please.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0194par1034	Mr. President, thank you. I mean, we're talking international contracts here. Contracts are signed to protect the interests of a people, the interests of the country, and the interests of their own people. Now, right next to us is a country called Cyprus, right next to us, and I want to tell you about the violations of human rights. Twenty-four Kurdish students have been deported in the past few days. What's the motive? Just now, some of the orators are triggering the streets on the stand again. Those nationalist waves here hit Cyprus, where Kurdish students are being attacked and protected. Nothing happens to the attackers, they have two classes in the 4th grade, three classes in the 4th grade, and no verdicts, they're deported. Now, a country without law and a country without judgment... something that wouldn't even happen in a banana republic. Now, here I am...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0195par1038	Thank you, Mr. Sakik, thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0194par1039	There's still time, and I don't think there's a lot of people, Mr. President, and there's no promises.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0195par1040	It's usually just a minute, you know. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0194par1042	Mr. President, it's important now...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0196par1043	Or we can have 20 minutes of promise.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0195par1044	Mr. Sakık, I didn't say it was nothing, but questions are being asked in a minute. We have time, that's right. You said it, it's on the record.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0194par1045	But look, someone else made a promise...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0196par1046	If there's no shortage of time, the president can give as much as he wants.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0195par1047	There's someone else who wants a say in this.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0194par1048	Mr. President, if there's too much, I'll give it up, but if not, I'll talk to you for 20 minutes.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0196par1049	We'll make him talk for 20 minutes, Mr. President. If you see too much of a minute, we'll talk for 20 minutes from now.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0195par1050	We'd give it to you if you wanted to, if you wanted to.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0194par1051	Mr. President, we're talking about something important. The citizens of this country are being victimized there, and we invite this Parliament, the Minister here, to the agenda. The port where they can take refuge is the judiciary, the law and the Parliament of this country. Where do these people take refuge? There's no law there. In the banana republic... The rights of students who have been here for four years have been condemned. We're saying that everyone should be sensitive, and I really think that they should be giving us information about these things, and I thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0195par1052	Thank you, Mr. Sakik, you've made it very clear, and it's on the record. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0197par1054	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, first of all, the bill and all its proposals have been asking questions for 20 minutes. It needs to be used equally between the minister and the interrogators. So it's customary to limit questions by one minute if they're too many. First of all, let me present this. My question, of course, is that when I found Mr. Minister of Industry here, I couldn't pronounce your new name, please excuse me, Mr. Secretary, but I consider you the Minister of Production, and I'm going to consider this an opportunity to give you an opportunity to inform the community. You know, especially the COBIs are having huge problems with the foreclosure of the production tools. They're coming in because of a debt, team stalls, here's the equipment and equipment required to perform your profession. The issue is held in the second and third draft of Article 82 of the Law on Emancipation and Bankruption 2004. For him, we... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll excuse us, we have about five minutes left. So ten minutes of 20 minutes can be used by those who ask questions, so if you'll excuse me, let me finish my question. I mean, we're talking about something important, not politics. Please...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0198par1060	Sir, we've just moved on to the QA. I know it's been 20 minutes, but I said it might be someone else asking questions.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0199par1061	If there's nothing else, he can talk for 20 minutes.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0198par1062	Come in, come in, two more minutes...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0200par1063	Let me finish, sir. I mean, it's important, and it's important for the government. Sir, we've proposed a law in the past period, as well as renovating it. By altering the second and third sides of the 82nd article, we have made a provision that the debtor's equipment, equipment and equipment required to continue his occupation cannot be seized, and as a second joke, household goods can't be seized except money, valuable documents, antiques, gems, or mineral ornaments. This bill is currently pending in the presidency. Would you care to make an adjustment? As the minister in charge of production, would you consider fixing this situation, especially when it concerns the SME very closely? That's my question. In this regard, I hope you will have a potential, an informative response, and a quality that will be described as good news for the SME. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0201par1067	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Mr. Secretary... Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I thank my friends who are asking questions. First, I'd like to answer the question asked by Mr. Shandır. Our ministry's new name is the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0202par1071	There's industry in it. OF COURSE, Turkey needed such a composition in order for industry to come together with science, technology and to increase Turkey's competitiveness. Hence, a new era began as the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. At this time, we have begun a period in which all of our businesses, including the COBIs, are prepared, especially for research and development activities, for the use of new technologies and for the advantage of competitiveness, for the production of high-tech and high-velocity value products, an industrial strategy document, a COBI strategy document, and sectoral strategy documents. At the same time, I have reminded my friends on different occasions that we have activated a number of support mechanisms, such as KOSGEB, for the support of the COSGEBs in the new era, for RD support, for management support, for fair support, for qualified personnel, for any kind of loan, for credit-related support. On this occasion, I'd like to remind you one more time. I think it would be helpful to get them to our fellow MPs in a brochure format called "How can the members of parliament reach out to our friends in the new era?" We'll get them there as soon as we can. THE foreclosure of the COBI's means of production is an important issue. You made an offer on the law. At the moment, our Ministry of Justice will be able to carry out some of the regulations of the Executive Bankruption Law, including the 82nd Article, in a study and in the shortest possible amount of time that you have said. I'd like to remind you of that on this occasion. Mr. Sakek, what you're saying is now a matter that has been sent to us by you. Of course, it is not acceptable for us to allow any citizens of the Republic of Turkey to be treated unfairly anywhere in the world. Every right of every citizen in those countries, in those geographys, will surely be sought by our government, the relevant institutions. To investigate as soon as possible why these young people were subjected to such treatment in Cyprus, I mean, the reasons...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0203par1076	By the decision of the Council of Ministers. The decision of the Council of Ministers is a form. Who did this? It's not a question of who did this? Why did they do this? We don't know what they were accused of, what they were accused of, what they were involved in, what they were accused of. According to you, these are Kurdish students. I don't think that any student or person who is a citizen of the Republic of Turkey in Cyprus or elsewhere in Cyprus or anywhere else in the world is being treated or subjected to such treatment because their ethnic origin is Kurdish or because it is an Arab. It would be our number one duty to question any citizen of the Republic of Turkey in Cyprus or anywhere else in the world if they were subjected to an ethnicity of abuse, unjust treatment, to ask for his account, to seek his rights. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] That's what we're saying. Of course, every country's own laws must be subject to a trial of those who are involved in crimes, those who are alleged to have been involved in crimes. They may have been unfairly administrative. The rights of these students will be sought in the best possible way, as well as by the mechanisms of the domestic law of international law concerning unjust administrative procedures. Don't let anyone doubt that. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0204par1082	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. RELATIONSHIP OF PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION OF PROTECTION AND REFECTION OF PROTECTION OF PROTECTION OF PROTECTION AND REFECTION OF PROTECTION MADDE 1- (1) was approved on December 16, 2010 by the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil, and the Agreement on Double Taxation and Obstruction of Tax Trafficking. On Article 1, Republican People's Party MP Haydar Akar has asked for a statement. Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0205par1091	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, like my fellow lawmakers, I ask God's mercy for those who died in the earthquake in Van Ercish, and for those who were injured, I pray for immediate healing. Yes, I'm a member of the Alexandrian district. On August 17th of 1999, I experienced this earthquake with my dear friends, who were also members of the AKP, as the other friend, MHP MP Lütfü Bey, spoke. Some of our friends have suffered greater losses, but I think this earthquake should have set an example for us. From 1999 to this year, I see that this earthquake is not an example for the Republic of Turkey. Why don't I see you as an example? In short, that night of the earthquake: at about five minutes past three, when we stood up with that big tremor, we somehow got out of our arms, and when we got out, we were covered in dust, and we didn't hear from anywhere, we didn't hear from our parents, our parents, our relatives. Of course, the day began to light up, slowly the size and size of the earthquake began to emerge. At first we thought it was an Adapazari earthquake, and we were impressed. But it turned out that the epicenter of the earthquake was Lakecuk. That day, I went all the way to the districts and to the Yalova thermals, including Adapazari, because some of the family elders of that day were in the Termal, and I traveled through the entire area of the earthquake. There was a rush. It was a righteous hurry because no one had ever faced such a disaster before, and we had faced this disaster, and no one knew what to do. By noon, it continued until about two o'clock, and then again, our Armed Forces came on stage and took control. Why did our Armed Forces come out and our police force come out late? Because friends in our police force had to think about the earthquake, and they had to think about their families, and while they were on watch, they were wondering how their parents were doing, and the people who weren't on watch were trying to save the people around them with their lives. Yeah, we haven't had an earthquake this big in years. His geography was great, and Sakarya was included in the province of Sakareli, the province of Jalova, and Istanbul, some of which included Istanbul, and we suffered great losses. But think about it, 1999 and 2011. My fellow speakers have just pointed out that in the name of the world's money, communications taxes and other taxes, 40 billion Turkish liras have been raised from our citizens to be used for measures before this earthquake happened, not for measures after the earthquake, but for measures before the earthquake. Not with the old money, friends, but with this new money, 40 billion Turkish liras have been collected. No one knows the outcome of this money. Before I came to this House, several of my fellow lawmakers have filed a motion to question the matter, but so far, the answer to this question has not been answered. So on August 21st, the anniversary of our 17th August, on August 21st, I gave the Grand National Assembly of Turkey a motion to be answered by the Ministry of Finance. Where is this 40 billion dollars, how is it used or used? Yet we still can't get an answer. Now, in 2005, a symposium is being held at the University of Alexandre. This symposium underlines the expected earthquake in the province of Van. In a few years, there will be an earthquake in the province of Van. Yes, there's something strange about our province of Alexei, when scientists explain, the public officials there are suing them as charlatans. Yes, they're suing scientists. We've been through this, we've been through something else, we've lived on the plain of cancer, Dilova. The scientist who filed a report for his Dilovah was sued by the mayor of the city. In 2005, the government, who had been running this country for ten years, would not have carried the mayor of the city of Van ▪ in 2005 and later made the mayor of the AKP as parliament, and would have asked him for his account today if he had heeded this report that had not been taken into account.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0206par1095	He's gonna ask you?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0205par1096	Yes, today... Tell him to ask me. I had that earthquake. He wouldn't have taken it to Parliament as AKP MP. Friends, 80 per cent of the buildings that have been built in Ercish have been destroyed, the buildings of state offices have been destroyed, the dorms have been destroyed, but the mayor of that day, the mayor who allowed them to be built, is in Parliament today. Now, of course, crying over these earthquakes after the earthquake, crying over terrorist attacks, wishing for condolences, wishing for good will doesn't solve anything. And what he didn't, we saw it in your ten-year period of power, and we continue to see it. I'm watching, and all of our friends on this council stand wish us well, and we agree to pray that we don't have these earthquakes again.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0207par1101	If you're old enough, you'll see more of this power.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0205par1102	Yeah, let's not have these earthquakes. There will be earthquakes, natural disasters, but 20,000 people didn't die in the Apocalypse. In fact, one person died from the earthquake, and the rest were killed by buildings. One of them was the death of a security guard who was killed next to the Ford Autosan Factory -- my senior lawmakers know -- as a result of a breach of the ground. One person died in the earthquake, but the balance sheet that day was 20,000. So we're missing something, and we're still doing it. Today, the TOKI build thousands of houses, we applaud. Last time -- I'm on the CIT Commission -- we inspected the TOKI. 500-odd billion dollars worth of profit, TOKI announced. This TOKI does everything, it also does social housing -- they've just explained the proportion of social housing -- it also does luxury villas with pools, but it does the most in Ataşehir. He's building a dwelling in Ataşehir, and there's a lot of money there. But the TOKI don't do anything.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0207par1104	He takes it from there and gives it to the poor.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0205par1105	Yeah, he's giving it to 100 poor people, 1. He's giving it to the rich.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0207par1106	The hospital's doing it.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0205par1107	Metin Bey, first ask the Prime Minister's permission, because of your speech, may I speak again? Please speak to me afterwards.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0208par1109	Please... please...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0205par1110	We're having a serious conversation here, and I invite you to be serious.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0208par1111	Please General Kurula... please... please General Kurula...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0205par1112	Yeah, I'm running out of time. Last time, my brother and sister from Bigeli had reproached me. Mr. Minister, there are 16 organised industrial areas in Kobeeli. You have just laid the foundation of one of them, the POSCO, within the industrial region. You laid the foundation before the CED report was completed. Maybe it's done. You'll tell me because I went to that CED meeting. In Turkey, there is one of the smallest cities with facial measurements, but not even in the largest province, organized industrial areas, in Kopeli, 16 of them. Three of them are in the center of the city, in the heart of Izmit, and in the heart of Cartepe. Which one? I'm counting on you: the Arslanbey Organised Industrial District, the Asim Gentle Industrial District, the Alicahian Organised Industrial Zone. Arslanbey is 70 per cent full, 42 per cent Asim Gentle, and Alikahya is 0 per cent full. It's just been organized. It's organized industrial territory.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0209par1115	Mr. President, report to item, item. What's he talking about?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0210par1116	Come to the point.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0205par1117	It's just been organized. Well, it's pretty obvious how to make a runt account, but it's in the center of town. 70,000 people live around it. It was built in the heart of the Plain of Izmit. Let's all get up and go together, you won't find a stone on this plain. You won't find stones, the most fertile land in Turkey. Seventy thousand people live around it, and they've got two organized industrial zones pinned down within this 70,000. It's treason however it is, it's betrayal of our city, nothing more. Mr. Tanju is shouting from here, he says: "I want industry in my city. I suggest you, Mr. Minister of Science, Industry and Technology -- we're from the same city -- let's take him out of Istanbul and spread this industry all over Turkey. Why are 16 organised industrial areas being established in Alexandria? Why is it a logistical base? Look, there's no containers and trucks all over the place. There are 2,000 trucks entering the city today, and 10,000 trucks entering Köseköy when it becomes the logistical village of Marseilles. 10,000 trucks go in.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0211par1120	What does it have to do with matter?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0205par1121	Mr. Ilyas, you must support them, Mr. Ilyas.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0211par1122	What's that got to do with it? Get to the point.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0205par1123	I'll get to the point, I'll come. I'm asking Mr. Minister of Industry, if he's from Obeleli -- and I believe he's from Obeleli -- now we have to turn him into a habitable city, call industry...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0212par1126	Mr. President, why aren't you interfering?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0205par1127	I want to tell you guys, I want you to listen to this. He is surrounded by the sea, but he yearns for the sea, Metin Bey. It is surrounded by sea, and 44 ports are built.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0213par1128	Get to the point, get to the point! Don't go out there unless you have something to say!
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0205par1129	We'll get to the point. We have many dealings with Brazil, but first we will solve the problem of the Ezekiel. [[Applause from CHP rows]] 44 ports, Minister, 16 organized industrial areas. Turkey's second province in terms of population density. See, in Turkey, the population density is 91 square miles per square mile, there are 496 people in Alexandria, and there are 4,000 in Istanbul. Second city, but 47 in a thousand...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0214par1133	Those licenses were issued by Sefa Sirmen.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0205par1134	Bravo! You guys haven't done anything in ten years. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0215par1137	Mr. Akar, thank you. Congressmans, we have very little time left to complete our working time. However, I submit to your votes that we extend our working time until the first article, which is the first article, and the adoption of this law: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. Now, Mr. Kaplan, sir, on item one.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0216par1140	Mr. President, I'd like to make a brief statement based on 60.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0217par1141	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0215par1142	It's on, I'll give it to you later.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0216par1143	No, I wanted a promise...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0215par1144	No, I'm sorry, it's started. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0218par1146	In fact, I consider the contracts with Brazil to be delayed because I have made a commitment to the 1st Amendment because of our many relations with Latin America, our economy, our imports, our exports, but this agreement on Brazil. I don't see the government here in Brazil, the social state, the head of state from a guerrilla movement of Dilma, after Lula da Silva, or Che Guevara. I don't see the way in the House to talk about all of this. Or there'll be a lot of talk about Brazil, about Brazil for hours. But just as Mr. Sakık was asking questions, in Cyprus, the state of the Republic of Turkey of Northern Cyprus, this is a baby country, be advised, the state of Northern Cyprus, the country of the Republic of Turkey, and the states that recognize it do not exist outside of Turkey. Look, there's a Near East University in this country, and thousands of young people are going to study at the Near East University. Everyone is studying at the Near East University, and Cyprus, like Turkey, is affected by Turkey's climate, its life, its everything. Cypriot students came to me yesterday. Look at this paper I have here. There's an incident going on at a university where these kids don't attend, and there's no injuries, there's no beatings, there's no obstruction. There are also students who have been released from court, but these students are seniors in law school, some of whom have two classes, some of whom have three classes left, and will graduate in a month. They bring them in, and they hand them a document like, look, it's a crappy document. Does it look like a government document? Do you see the decision of the Council of Ministers, my friends? Musqueret's notice document, combat notice document, chapter 105. What is it? The court releases the student he brought to court, he's innocent. The court releases it, but the President of the Near East University has summoned these children and asked them to prevent the incidents. These kids did everything they could to break it up. And that's the weird part. One of them gets caught coming out of the exam.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0219par1149	You stoned 500 men, 100 students. The cars broke their windows. Don't let it get to you.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0218par1150	Now, look, here's the press, here's the events, here's the courts in Cyprus. If you get up here and applaud this persecution, if you call it a state, a state in Cyprus, a young country, turn it into a shitty republic, a banana republic, and send a police chief from Turkey, if you connect its Ministry of Interior to the Turkish Armed Forces in Turkey, then the Turkish Armed Forces will expel these students that the court has released within an hour. If your conscience tolerates this kind of deportation. In Cyprus, where you see yourself as your own country, such things happen in all universities. If your conscience is patient, stand by, I'm not saying anything, but the names of the students who came to me are here, their lawyers are here, their papers are here. You will learn to tolerate opposition, as in all Turkey, to tolerate opposition, and in Cyprus, and in universities there. Now that I have the State Department here, it represents the government, and the President of the Commission has arrived. Our Council of Ministers will take care of this citizen, a citizen of our government, the Republic of Turkey. Will he say: "If there is a judgment there, how can you deport it without my brother's judgment?" (You will get four years of education without a verdict and equalize the world's money to the Ministry of National Education, this university, the Near East University as an equation, and then you will throw out two students who were left behind in the last class of this university. Is this a criminal record, guys? Look, look at this ID. Hamdi Seren is the birthplace of the Republic of Turkey. Is this a criminal record? Is it a crime to be born in Cleopatra, born in Şırnak? Didn't we or did we not win Cyprus landings with the Turkish Cypriot and Kurd? Didn't both Turkish and Kurdish fight together in Cyprus? So we all know that there are more people than local Cypriots, non-Cypriots, people from outside, people from Turkey leaving Turkey. But if someone in Cyprus is doing this persecution, this violence at the Near East University, let them know that there are owners here, there are those who will take care of them. This lawlessness, this tyranny, the House needs to take over, and the government needs to take over, and our State Department needs to take over. This isn't a banana republic. I'm deporting you for no reason in the shitty republic. They won't give you a document and put you on a plane at Ercan Airport and deport you. We don't allow any students to take their money and send it to the Near East University when they have two classes left. The sin of this chancellor, this university chancellor, here, is great; he mediated, called these children. Again, here Ada Vice General Erdal Emanet called these people, asked them to help; he brought them after -- after he released them to court -- deported them to Ercan Airport. Friends, if we don't act humanly, if we don't act humanly, the extensions of our tensions and conflicts here, in Cyprus, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, in this land that has returned to the heart of mafia, black money, prostitution, let our people study in colleges, not take their money, not open their doors, let the Ministry of Education equate, let the Foreign Minister have his citizen if he sees a citizen. That's what we want to say here. This issue, this injustice, until this sacrifice is resolved, me and my party and my group will not give up on it. We will not let this go because we have seen this persecution, this violence, from time to time, in Turkey. In our universities, these outside police chiefs, under the name of counterterrorism, there is no such thing as what the rectors are calling on, asking the students to calm the groups. This student will go and help, then be deported. There's no such thing anywhere in the world, fellas. We have to talk about this here. If Cyprus is a young country, if our brothers, our relatives, and our destinies are one, if the citizens of the same fates have gone there with the Turkish people in the Battle of Cyprus, with the Kurds, we will not accept this discrimination in Ankara, nor in Nicosia. Segregation is discrimination everywhere, racism is racism everywhere, violence is violence everywhere, lawlessness everywhere. We have a very serious youth population there. Thousands of people read there. If we want to protect the fate of those thousands of people, we will take care of these young people. That's what I want to say. I had to make a commitment to that, and for that, the House... especially the main opposition party has a close relationship with this power.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0220par1156	With what power?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0221par1157	With who?
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0222par1158	Of course not.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0223par1159	You have relations with the current government in Cyprus. And I want you to warn that government about that. Since he is in power, his current government... as your Republican People's Party, I know you have a great deal of influence on them.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0222par1160	I wish there was.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0223par1161	As the main opposition, I invite you and the AKP (the government) in power -- to take part in this matter. Thank you all.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0224par1163	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0225par1164	Mr. President, he made a taunt. If you'll excuse me, I have a very short...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0224par1165	Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0225par1168	Mr. President, I'm going to express my opinion very briefly. Mr. Kaplan expressed concern and concern for some of our citizens who have been discriminated against because of ethnicity in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. As the Republican People's Party, we can't stand by the fact that any of our citizens are subjected to discrimination, unfair treatment in the Republic of Turkey, or in any other country, or in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, because of their ethnic origin, we are absolutely against it. I'd like that on the record first. Second: The Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus was founded after Operation Peace of 1974. It's a place where many investors invest in tourism. If there's been some abuse there, I don't think it's right to sacrifice an entire republic, position it in a way that will shake the prestige of the world's public opinion. The Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is a republic that we need to protect, protect, support, a mistake that has been made here must be prevented, and the government must correct that mistake. I don't know about the claim and the degree of accuracy, but I think Mr. Kaplan's claims should be taken seriously. The People's Party of the Republic has a close relationship with the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. I take the sentence as a delegation from the Republican People's Party to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. If the Republican People's Party has any good intentions to declare, of course, we will never hesitate to express them. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0226par1174	Thank you. [[Continue]] Now, Mr. Tanal, in the form of a question-answer, I assume you have a question. From where you are, please.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0227par1182	My dear President, my dear lawmakers, I suggest to the government about the earthquake that has occurred in Van. On the day of the earthquake, I recommend that the state pay off these debts and pay off the debt in three years. It's a social government principle. So in this sense, this is really what our citizens need, this is one. My second suggestion, my dear President, is that in Internet Law 5651, I propose that the government's powers of hate and racism be contacted by the Internet agency and that this law be enforced and shut down. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0228par1186	I thank you. Mr. Agha, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0229par1188	I'd like to ask the Minister a question: A decision has been made to privatise sugar factories in Malatya, Erzincan, Elbia and Elazig. But given past privatisation practices, it's clear that all privatisation is at the expense of the public and the public. The sale of the Sumerbank factory in Malatya, the sale of the Tekel, the sale of the state building, was entirely at the expense of the people of Malatiah. The Malatian Sugar Factory, which will be privatized here, will be privatized for its land, all over the land value. That's why we believe this place will also be moved. I'd like to point out that we are opposed to privatisation of factories built in the east in social areas. We ask the Minister to review this once more.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0228par1190	Thank you. Mr. Ayday, come in.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0230par1192	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Minister Nihat Ergün and Beşir Atalay both said there could be no discrimination in terms of Cyprus, whether it was the earthquake issue or the government's overall actions, that the concept of discrimination is contrary to the AKP's Authority. In this regard, I would like to remind Mr. Ministers that discrimination has not only entered the Turkish Penal Code as a crime in terms of violations in personal relations, but also in terms of discrimination in economic life, and has been a crime in the Turkish Penal Code for six years. In these six years, according to human rights associations, there is only one trial in Turkey, which has yet to be decided, and there is not a single defendant convicted for any discrimination charges. In this case, given the systematic attacks on Roma, Kurds, other minorities, especially after the martyrs' funerals...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0231par1196	Thank you, Mr. Ayday. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0232par1198	Mr. President, members of parliament, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I object to the fact that lawmakers, speakers, and speakers, are constantly saying "Turkk, Laz, Çerkek" to form sentences. I don't think that's true. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0231par1201	Thank you. Mr. Poyraz.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0233par1203	Mr. President, I believe Mr. Haydar Akar Bey has made a technical error during the speech of our MP and the CSI Commissioner. We discussed the accounts and transactions of the Real Estate Investment Partnership, which we discussed in the Commission, and the Real Estate Investment Partnership is correct. However, it is a company that operates entirely in the form of a sharer, according to commercial criteria, and also operates in the Istanbul Stock Exchange. The Public Housing Authority is an institution that works mainly for social projects, while implementing revenue-enhancing projects. I made a promise that this would go through the transcripts like this. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0234par1207	Thank you. I submit the first amendment of the bill to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0235par1209	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0234par1210	I'm going to read Article 2: MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect.
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0235par1212	Mr. President, there's teasing. Friend, Mr. Commissioner...
tbmm-2011-10-25sit03spe0234par1213	I'll bring it in and see if I can get it later. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I move that the Court of Justice of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil issue a clear vote on how to prevent Double Taxation and Obstruct Tax Trafficking Agreement and ratification of the EKI Protocol: ▪ Number of votes used: 268 [[x]] Dear lawmakers, in this way, the bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. Our working time is complete. According to the decision taken, it is Wednesday (October 26, 2011) at 14 p.m. to hold a general discussion on the main proposals (8/1, 8/2, 8/3 and 8/4). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
