tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 20th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. Congressmans, if you'll please be quiet... The first non-responsive statement belongs to Giresun University MP Selahtin Karaahmetoğlu, who asked for a comment on Giresun University. Here you are, Mr. Karaahmetoglu.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0002par0015	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I'd like to share with you the injustice of the choice of chancellor or appointment at Giresun University, the lack of law, joy, politics, how it's been played with a science institution. June 1, 2010, the Founder resigns unexpectedly, retires. On 2 June, Prof. Dr. Halil Ibrahim Bahar is appointing Bahar as acting president. On June 18, 2010, the presidential elections were held, acting President Halil İbrahim Bahar 31 votes, one vote, 29 votes for the second candidate, 21 votes for the third candidate, 4 votes for the fourth candidate, 5th candidate Prof. Dr. Yilmaz Can takes 2 votes, 6th candidate 1 vote. On July 1, 2010, the rectory candidates are interviewing and the list is being released. The third candidate, Prof., who was the third candidate with 21 votes, was the first in line, the second in line with 4 votes, the second in line with 4 votes, and the fifth by 2 votes. Dr. Yilmaz Can is also placed in the third place. The president, who received the most votes, makes a statement to the press: The president of the Black Sea Technical University Professor Ercan Bocutoglu is being replaced by Professor Ercan Bocutoglu, who has been suspended after he stated that the presidents and MPs had made the choice of presidents in the cafes at Çukurambar. Mr. Yilmaz Can, who is third on the list to be presented to the President on 10 July, resigns from the list. He tells the press that the elections will be renewed, that he will get more votes in the next election, so he will not embarrass those who are confident. On September 23, 2010, Mr. Prof. Yilmaz Can has agreed to re-election. In the process, Professor Yilmaz Can is assigned to the School of Fine Arts, whose name is yet to be found at Giresun University, without a student or building. Professor Halil İbrahim Bahar, who came first in the October 15, 2010 elections, but was eliminated, was scheduled to be held on October 21, 2010, in Ankara 4. He's suing the District Attorney's Court. On October 18, 2010, the case is being announced and the decision to stop the execution is being issued. In the meantime, Justice and Development Party Deputy President and Giresun MP Mr. Nurettin Canikli is making a statement to the press. I know him well, I vouch for him in every way. If he becomes a chancellor, he will work with us in harmony and as a positive way. He makes a statement. On November 2nd, Deputy Chancellor Ersan Bocutoglu is dismissed and replaced by Yilmaz Can as acting chancellor and Mr. Can has completed his six-month term as chancellor on 12 May 2011, but has completed his second term on 12 November, and has entered the new third phase after 12 November. Now, what comes out of this painting is this: Is there any other university that has been in custody for about 17 or 18 months, which is inappropriate for the legal process? That's what the public wants to know. According to the joke of Article 13 (a) of the YOC legislation, the term of acting chancellor is extended at six months. Giresun is asking the public about this as a violation of the law. However, according to Law 2547, why is this decision not implemented even if one of the candidates or several of the rectors on the list resign and the election can't be renewed, and there is a court order on this matter? Why isn't Law 2547 being enforced? What needs to be done here is to eliminate one of the candidates...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0003par0025	Please complete your promise.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0002par0026	I'm gonna need a moment of your time. I'm gonna wrap this up. ...to be put on the list and presented to the presidency. My time won't be enough to ask my questions. With two votes at Giresun University, Mr. Professor Can is an example for Turkey, who is now acting chancellor. This is due to political arbitraryness, and I want to get your attention on this, and I wish that this unlawfulness would be eliminated. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0004par0031	Thank you, Mr. Karaahmetoglu. The second out-of-date statement belongs to İstanbul MP Metin Ashunk, who asked to be mentioned as the anniversary of the exile of the Ahiska Turks. Here you go, Mr. Ashy.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0005par0036	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to honor the anniversary of the year after all this time of exile by the Turks of Ahiska on November 15, 1944. It was a humble rose. / It was a native language. / Tell me, Sultan Mahmud. The key to Mahmoud/ İstanbul has gone. The words of a Ahiska poet who says, "Tell me. In fact, the verse tells us how we pay for every gap we leave in this geography. For the past few hundred years, the environment in central Turkey has had a presence where pain, tears, and blood have never stopped. It's also a geography of migrations. The void of the Ottoman lands was filled with colonial forces, with millions of lives at stake, the formation of these forces from the Caucasus to the Balkans, from the Middle East to Africa. One of these pains is the Russian mesalam, where the Ahiska Turks suffer just like the other Caucasian peoples. It began about two hundred years before the Russian Tsar's landing in the Caucasus, and continued to increase during the Soviet Union, where Stalin was the head of Stalin. In particular, the exile policy, initiated in 1943-44, was carved into the memory of the peoples of Caucasus, a great drama, a great picture, as a bad picture, with the approval of the Western countries through the mandatory migration under Stalin. Among the most affected by this persecution were the Turks of Ahýska. Nearly 100,000 Ahiska Turks were transferred from Caucasya (Kafkasya) to Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzistan and Uzbekistan, and many died on the road. On this four-to-six-week journey, 17,000 Sagittarius died. Those who have survived have continued to live under heavy martial law and have not been able to return to their homeland until 1991. Although Georgia has been given the right to return to its homeland during the accession process to the churchy Turks, this has not happened. In this minor state trauma has been passed down from generation to generation. The memory of an Ajussi Turk sums up the trauma as clear as: "My grandfather and grandmother died at home. They had no wings so they could fly. My grandfather used to say that you can't live without a country. Today, the descendants of these people live in countries such as the Russian Federation, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Turkey, Ukraine, Germany, France, Italy and the United States. The area, which was evacuated by the exile of the common Turks, is mandatory for Turkey to use narrower transport corridors in the Caucasus today, and the area that was evacuated -- which Stalin had evacuated -- has been inhabited -- has been inhabited by Armenian populations. The Ahiska region is located on the transit route of international energy transmissions and is at the center of competition areas. With exile politics in this framework, there are strong indications that soft ethnic cleansing was carried out in the period of the Tsarate and Stalin. The only way to address this pain is to ensure the immediate right of the Turks to return to their homeland and implement decisions made in that sense. This is the duty of the international community. One of the most important demands of Turkey's Ahiska Turks was recognition of their civil rights. Our government has not been indifferent to this demand, and the right of the Ahiska Turks, number 3835, released by the EC PARTI government in February 2009, to accept Turkey and its residence with the Law of Dair, even if it were a small part of it, to have the right to a double citizenship. Clearly, we deeply feel the sadness of our fellow Christians, and the pain of their fellow Christians, and the mercy of God, and the mercy of our Christian brothers, who died in exile, and the love and respect of our assembly.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0006par0045	Thank you, Mr. Ashy. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Gaziantep MP Mehmet Şeker (Ghaziantep) who wants to speak on the occasion of Diabetes Week. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0007par0050	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book pledge on November 14th, 21st, World Diabetes Week. I hereby salute your grand delegation and our esteemed citizens who are watching us on their screens. For the first time in the history of the world, health planners calculate that the next generation, our children, our grandchildren, will be shorter than the previous generation. The reason is obvious. With advanced technology, the new generation only feeds on fast food in the house, in the closed environment, and lives a life without sport, without motion. Diabetes is one of the most common diseases in the world today. According to the World Health Organization, there are over 300 million diabetics, and the increase of diabetes is increasing. The growth of the disease has reached a stage so high in recent years that for the first time, the World Health Organization has started talking about an epidemic, a diabetes epidemic, an epidemic. Again, the United Nations diabetes considered it an epidemic and began to call for immediate measures. Diabetes has also increased by 90 per cent in our country in recent years by 100 per cent. The rate of diabetes prevalence, which was 7.6 in 2000, has now increased to 14 percent, friends. Studies show that there are 9 million diabetics in our country. That means that over 40 years of age, 25 percent of people are going to have diabetes. Diabetes receives its source from the new model of life brought to our agenda by the 21st century. Such factors as the spread of an immovable lifestyle, the consumption of available foods, the shortening of meal timing, are one of the most striking features of this new model of life. Diabetes, my dear friends, is the first cause of blindness seen over twenty years of age, in the world's leading cause of death, intrinsic disease, chronic kidney failure, vascular disease, and paralysis. As complications develop, the treatment of the disease becomes difficult, and the diabetes patient, which normally costs a year for a thousand dollars, if these complications develop, will cost the state $15,000. There are many people who claim to treat diabetes with herbs or herbal mixtures, and many non-medicines, and in various visual and written media, who constantly go on the air and recommend recipes and prescriptions for treatment for patients. There have been many complaints from diabetic patients that the products prepared with herbs or herbal mixtures were commercially marketed as the exact cure for diabetes, and sold to patients at high prices. Sadly, the number of such individuals and such products is increasing day by day because it cannot be controlled. Ads claiming that unsubstantiated unsubstantiated, unlicensed from the Ministry of Health, treating diseases in the name of medicine deceive the patients, leaving medicines given by physicians, failing treatments by these ads or ads, buying these products with large amounts of money. In treating a disease that causes severe organ loss, which causes millions of people's lives when they are not well treated, such use in treatment of plant products, which have not been proven by international rules, causes serious health problems for many patients, which cannot be returned. The Ministry of Health must take measures to prevent non-medical people from tampering with patient health without the ability to treat patients. The Radio Television Oversight should take immediate measures to prevent ads and ads of herbal mixtures that will give the patient the impression of medical medicine and to prevent them from being treated by patients or disease. The Ministry of Health should form a scientific ethical board, which should only be explained and implemented after the approval of the ethics committee. Dear friends, the diagnosis of diabetes was made by a doctor named Areteus, who lived in our Cappadocia region in the year 2,500 B.C.E. When he took the patient's urine and put it in the sun and saw the bees and flies coming on, he called it the Diabetes mellitus, the sugary current. From that day on, there have been serious developments and changes in diabetes. However, in recent years there has been a serious increase in the rate of diabetes. Of course, the biggest problem in our country, dear friends, is serious investments in the treatment of diabetes.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0008par0061	Complete your words. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0007par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. We're making very serious investments in the treatment of diabetes, the treatment of all diseases, but we don't care about protective medicine. So, thanks to them, we are now doing a study on diabetes training in schools under the protection of the President. I'd also like to thank the Turkish Diabetes Foundation for this matter. We've got another problem, which is that it's very important to follow diabetes. While blood sugar trails are being followed, our Ministry of Health asks not to be allowed to import toys from abroad on the grounds that they are harmful, our sugar measuring devices and materials that measure diabetes in the same way come from China, from the Far East. That's got to stop. Because in order for our people to achieve a healthy outcome, they need to make these measurements with internationally accepted machines. I wish you all a healthy and happy day, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0009par0068	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. On behalf of the government, Minister of Forest and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu will answer. Here you go, Mr. Eroglu.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0010par0072	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I wish everyone a healthy, beautiful life here, all of our nation, all of humanity. Basically, I've been promised to respond to Mr. Mehmet Candy Congressman's speech about diabetes. Basically, I participate in your views as an environmentalist. Perhaps instead of the health minister, why did the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs respond? But when the environmental engineering department was established in the past, I was teaching public health lessons. In that way, I was genuinely interested in the subject, so I wished to answer briefly. Basically, with the scientific work done in our country, as our Congressman has just stated, there are actually 6.5 million diabetic patients, but it's also estimated by our Ministry of Health that there are maybe 3 million people who are not known for diabetes. As you say, 9 to 9.5 million people are actually diabetic. The frequency of diabetes is estimated to be increasing mainly due to obesity, or fatness, and that of every seven people over the age of 20, one is particularly diabetic. This is really important. There's been an increase, but my personal opinion is that this increase is a major factor in the increase in physics, the lack of exercise, even the lack of transportation, the lack of walking everywhere, and the fact that our people don't care enough about protective medicine, as you put it. This framework was launched by our Health Ministry for the purpose of preventing and controlling diabetes by Turkey's Diabetes Prevention and Control Programme (EAPTÜRK). In the case of diabetes, it has been decided that the annual celebration of November 14th Diabetes Day events, which are the birthday of Frederic Banting, who has discovered the most valuable molecule ever produced in medical history, the insulin hormone, led by the World Health Organization and the World Diabetes Federation, in order to improve awareness and highlight the importance of the issue. And it's really celebrated this week in our country. As part of this programme, it was decided this year that the World Diabetes Day (November 14th) would be conducted with various activities, especially from 14 November 2011, as an important risk factor in the formation of Type 2 diabetes, including an increase in the prevalence of obesity in our country.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0011par0078	Does the country have a health minister, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0010par0079	One of these events took place on 14 November 2011 at the Hilton Hotel in Ankara. Indeed, this meeting was attended by members of the ministry, teachers who worked on it, people whose names were truly world-renowned in the field of medicine, and a ceremony was arranged, and those who did what they did were given a commendation. For the first time, our esteemed teachers have expressed their gratitude to the Ministry of Health for this event, with such a large organization and a large turnout, a November 14th event. As part of the programme, under the protocol signed on April 27, 2010, a diabetes programme began in schools at the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of National Education and the Children's Endocrinology and Diabetes Association. In this framework, the 81 municipal health department and state national educational directorates work together, within the week of November 14, 2011, there are about 80,000 schools in our country, children with diabetes and children with education in terms of fat and health care. In addition, various activities carried out by the health departments at 81 districts, such as free measurements of blood sugar, prevention of obesity, and the introduction of this topic on public radio and televisions, the importance of healthy nutrition and physical activities, some activities in schools, shopping malls and city squares and so on, are really serious work done in such matters as the public's attention, especially to attracting and taking measures. But I need to stress in particular that the measures taken or taken by the Ministry of Health alone are not enough. In this regard, our people need to be especially focused on preventing fatness and inaction, and especially on protective medicine, protective health care, as our congressman pointed out. Because, in fact, when we look at health-related costs, after a person gets sick, his treatment costs are very high, but the cost of the care services needed to prevent the disease is much lower. In this regard, these protective medicine studies need to be valued, and our citizens need to pay attention to them. I thank you again, indeed, for bringing this matter up and, God willing, a healthy, good long life for everyone. I salute you all, sir, thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0012par0084	Thank you, Mr. Eroglu. Mr. Tanal, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Yeniçeri, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Şandir, Mr. Sakık, Mr. Altay, Mr. Light and Mr. Horseman. Here you are, Mr. Tanal. You have one minute.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0013par0090	Dear President, the esteemed MPs are November 17th, International Day of Students. The International Day of Students resulted in the attacks by Nazis at Prague University on 17 November 1939 and the deaths of nine students against the invasion of Czechoslovakia by the Nazis, the transfer of 1,200 students to concentration camps and the closure of all units of Prague University. In our country, there is a similar understanding of that period. The faculty of a university are in prison today; students who exercise democratic rights in the same way are in prison, members of the press are in prison, MPs are in prison, opponents are in prison. All professors, students, journalists, who are victims of their democratic rights and freedom! Students, members of the press, faculty and democratic rights and...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0014par0094	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Ozkes...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0015par0097	Mr. President, the high-profile MPs are closer to the AKP ranks we speak of in the High Assembly. Justice and Development Party (AKP) MPs who have abused their proximity are trying to suppress and suppress opposition speakers, using hurtful words, using psychological pressure. It does not befit the great Parliament to be pressured and shadowed by lawmakers who speak the nation's voices from the heart of the nation. That's why I suggest we move the bench. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0014par0100	Thank you, Mr. Ozkes. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0016par0103	Mr. President, valued lawmakers have reported that thousands of people have been used as guinea pigs in Turkey between January 2007 and December 2010, and 893 have died, according to a report by Turkish media. In India, it is said to be more than 1,700, while in Mexico, about 1,500. Turkey is listed as number six in terms of being used as a guinea pig. Pharmaceutical companies used thousands of Turkish people as guinea pigs, and 893 of our people died because of it, and then they explained it themselves. Officials are the country under the most strict supervision. If that happens, we'll beat the shit out of you. I guess they'll have to read the spirit of the dead after this! In four years, thousands of people will be used as guinea pigs, and 893... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...he'll lose his life as a result of this, and you'll still be talking about life!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0014par0106	Thank you. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0017par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have expressed the pain of Mr. Ashtunk Ahýska's species, speaking out of the agenda today. I gave a speech about it on the 15th, and we expected from the ruling party that instead of expressing the sufferings of the Ahıska Turks, like an opposition MP, they should address the problems of the Ahıska Turks in Turkey, offering solutions. Today, unfortunately, the common Turks still have not returned to their motherland, Ahiska, but their homeland, Ahiska, is still under the control of the Armenians there. You can't come to the Ahıska Turks of the President of Georgia without changing your names. He is under pressure. In Turkey, we know that there is a strong Georgian lobby. What we expect from this lobby is for the Turks of Ahiska to help return to their historic homeland by pressuring Georgia in this sense... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that the Turks of Ahiska in Turkey have also found a solution to their problems. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0018par0114	Thank you. Mr. Ayday...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0019par0117	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs were tortured by 650,000 people after the September 12, 1980 military coup. According to a report in the Radikal newspaper last week, a professor in Mamak Prison was named after a professor who had won significant awards for psychological tests under the names of leftist prisoners, prisoners and prisoners, and whose name I can't mention, and who betrayed the Hippocratic oath on behalf of scientists who supported the torturers, and who had served a great deal in Mamak, Metris and Diyarbakır prisons. One aspect of the reckoning with September 12th is the investigation of doctors who have given medical approval for torture -- no one has ever been tried, no one has ever been prosecuted, no charges have been filed -- and once again, I draw your attention to it. I'll inform the High Council, the members of the government, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0018par0119	Thank you, Mr. Ayday. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0020par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the National Movement Party Group, strongly, hate and share the persecution that the Ahiska Turks have experienced in history. I wish mercy to our brothers who died in that exile. The problems expressed by Mr. Sinan Oğan are still going on. We also demand that these problems be overcome as soon as possible, and we hope that they will be overcome. The other thing is diabetes. In fact, our country is growing rapidly, especially towards the age limit of diabetic patients... and now our children, three years old, four years old, are suffering from diabetes. The government demands that the reasons for this result be properly investigated and taken care of, thank you, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0021par0125	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Dear Sakek...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0022par0128	Mr. President, thank you. There's no minister involved, but since it's a very important matter, I wish you'd take notes. Now, in the Ercish region of Van, Güroymak of Bitlis, Blurk of Mush, Malazgirt, and centrally, early winter came this year. Most of the beets remained in the fields. No vehicle can enter the fields and the citizen is devastated. And then there's the quota, so when they don't deliver their beets, there's a legal sanction, and the manufacturer's a mess. I'd appreciate it if you could help me with that, especially Ercish. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0023par0132	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0024par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, lawmakers, Parliament, which opened on October 1st, has completed about a month and a half, nothing has been established by Parliament except three or five international agreements. This kind of work of Parliament is a waste of time and a great mistake to national wealth. In order for parliament to work, power must compromise with the opposition. He must have seen now that power cannot run Parliament without a compromise with the opposition. People are watching us, there's a lot to be expected of this Parliament, but there's a government that's satisfied with the laws of the law. Even though the legislature is open and the House is still not in Parliament, the executive body, the legislature...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0023par0138	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Dear Light...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0025par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, isn't it a contradiction to be allowed to stay away from three whites, to fight obesity, to have health ministry campaigns opened, to increase the quota of sugar-based sugar production in our country every year, to see the benefits of starch-based sugar melting from diabetes, bloodlessness, gout disease, abdominal fat, liver fatting, cancer, and also to be allowed to be used when it is known to cause sugar production, loss of health and environment? While such a subject is discussed at Diabetes Week, sugar is especially needed to increase the production of starch-based sugars and to find out which companies benefit from importing corn. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0026par0145	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0027par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. It was really interesting to hear diabetes from the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs. I don't know if diabetes is in the forest business, if it's in the water business, but as a physician, I don't understand! But one thing I've come to understand is that the government's importance to health is that much. Doesn't this country have a Minister of Health? I would also like to bring this to the attention of the AKP Group Deputy President who tried to criticize us yesterday. I also have a question: Are those who claim that we have the 16th largest economy, those who claim that the national income per capita is $10,000, ashamed of the existence of the subjects who voluntarily volunteer for scientific research -- in truth -- and died?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0028par0151	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Türkoglu and Mr. Eryılmaz have my word again that I will not take any more promises. Mr. Turkoglu, come in.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0029par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. Since we can't change the fingers, the system is malfunctioning, please change the system. Because we had trouble getting in, so I'll introduce him first. And thank you for your discretion. What I want to talk about is the demand for mediation with the terrorist organization Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) from the head of the regional administration in the north of Iraq, which was reflected in the newspapers yesterday and our Prime Minister visited Turkey before the festival. What kind of business is that? You're designing Africa, Libya, Egypt, Algeria, Morocco, whatever it is, you're taking advantage of Syria, but it's the ruler of a region that sends terrorists to our country every day, a tribal leader, who wants to mediate a Turkish state, a vast Turkish state? I'd like to say that I think it's very strange, that I resent it, that I blame it. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0030par0159	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Mr. Eryilmaz.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0031par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister says that terror has no religion, language, race and nation at every turn and should be condemned wherever it comes from. However, armed training, logistical support and protection are given to opposition groups who try to overthrow a neighbouring, brother and friend country by using armed force, spill Muslim blood, kill police and soldiers. Doesn't this support for the armed group mean supporting terrorism? History will record Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Davutoglu as politicians supporting the armed group that shed Muslim blood. Support for this armed group does not serve the country's national interests, but also threatens the national security of our country. In this regard, Mr. AKP Group...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0030par0165	Thank you. Congressmans, we're moving on to the agenda, where the presidency has presentations to the General Assembly...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0032par0167	Mr. President, I'm sorry, I mean, in terms of procedure, there's been a question being asked here. These questions are a matter of law enforcement. The minister must answer for the fact that there is legal activity. If the concerned minister...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0030par0169	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0032par0170	In that sense, it's the work of legislature...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0030par0171	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0032par0172	It's about law enforcement...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0030par0173	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0033par0174	You interrupt the president.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0032par0175	Please be respectful. I'm not interrupting, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0030par0176	Mr. Tanal, I promised the MPs who asked for a brief statement according to Article 60 of the Civil Code. This is not a question-answer process. According to him, if you look at you again under the Civil Code...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0033par0177	But unfortunately, there were always questions.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0030par0178	Thank you for that.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0033par0179	But the Minister would like to answer, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0034par0180	Mr. President, that's an accusation.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0030par0181	Mr. Eroglu, you know there is no such procedure. Please...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0034par0182	If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0030par0183	We're not in the QA department. There's something for 60.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0034par0184	I'll make a brief statement.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0030par0185	I'll turn on your microphone. Mr. Eroglu, if you would like to make a statement based on 60, you can also make a statement at your place.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0034par0186	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have made a statement in the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs concerning diabetes at work in the first place. Actually, that's a really ugly expression. Are you in a position to appreciate how much I know about this? First of all, I'm going out to inform on the government. I'm on call here, so we've been in touch with our Ministry of Health. I got the work on diabetes. Besides, I'm a person who's personally taught and cared about health and care. I'm an environmental professor. So there's no such thing as this. The second issue is that a deputy of ours has made such a statement that the government has provided weapons to the opposition in Syria. It's incredibly wrong, it's very ugly. And look, it's extremely wrong to make such a public statement about foreign politics, because Turkey is a great state, it's decided according to it, we're deciding what to do, but we don't have that kind of gun support. We're not even doing some sanctions right now. We can cut the water, cut the water? So people live there, whatever it takes... we look at it from a human perspective. We'd like to stress that in particular. The other thing is the Ajussi Turks. It's not that our government isn't doing what it's supposed to do, it's that we have ministers who are personally following this. So I'm a man who's seen and seen the great persecutions of the Ahiska Turks in Kazakhstan, years ago, in the 1990s. Indeed, they have been persecuted and have been victims. With our government, I believe we should all take care of them together. The other thing was about sugar. Of course, it's about sugar, and I'm also going to tell the minister about the issues of the beet, about Ercish, Malazgirt, and about the issues of our representatives at Üroymak. I'd like to emphasize that in a nutshell. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0035par0191	Thank you, Mr. Eroglu. You've already explained at the beginning of your conversation why you're here. It was clear and clear. Now, the presidency has its presentations to the General Assembly...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0036par0194	Mr. President, we asked for a minute's voice, you did, thank you, and our Minister answered. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to add two words to what our Minister says.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0037par0196	Mr. President, is this part of the non-independent delegation?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0038par0197	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0037par0198	I'm guessing it doesn't say "independents."
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0038par0199	I beg you very much...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0037par0200	Mr. President, let's write "independents" here.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0038par0201	Please...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0039par0202	We don't have any charges. Here are the statements made by a colonel alleged to have been protected by Turkey in the national and international press...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0040par0203	Mr. President, is there such a thing as this? He talks like that every time. That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0038par0204	Congressman, you've made that very clear and clear, and Mr. Secretary has made a statement in return. Please, let's move on to our agenda. The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has three papers, and I will have them read separately and present them to your knowledge. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The visit of our country with a Parliamentary Committee along with Romanian Senate President Mircea Geoana was approved by the Supreme Court of the National Assembly of Turkey's Court of President November 2nd 2011 and its 8th Amendment decree. The visit of the delegation to our country is the 7th Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It is subject to the General Assembly's information on the matter. NATO Parliamentary Assembly MP Aykan Erdemir and İstanbul MP Jalal Dinçer have backed up membership in the Turkish Group of European Security and Co-operation. Black Sea Economic Co-operation Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey's Group has been open to the membership of Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan. [[3/363]] Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The membership of Izmir MP Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu, who was nominated as the head of the MP of the MHP Group for membership of Antalya MP Yusuf Ziya Irbec for the end of his membership in Turkey-EU Karma Parliamentary Commission. İstanbul MP Celal Dinçer's backup membership in the European Security and Co-operation Organization, as well as NATO Parliamentary Assembly of Erdemir's replacement membership in the Turkish Group. A membership in the Black Sea Economic Co-operation Parliament Assembly Turkish Group for the free membership of Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan, nominated by the BDP Group Chairman, The Grand National Assembly of Turkey's International Relations Act No. 3620, followed by the presidential Court's decree November 14, 2011 and 9th. In accordance with the (a) joke of the clause, it is submitted to the General Assembly's information. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The official visit to our country as the guest of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with a delegation of the President of the Senate, Kairat Mami, was approved by the Supreme Assembly of Turkey's Court of Parliament, October 12th, 2011, and Decision 5th. The visit of the delegation to our country is the 7th Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It is subject to the General Assembly's information on the matter. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Most of Turkey is in the earthquake belt. In 1999, after earthquakes in Gölcuk and Düzce on November 12th, the possibility of an earthquake in Istanbul was widely discussed. According to official figures, 17480 people were killed and 43,953 were injured in the 1999 earthquake in Lakecuk. According to unofficial reports, about 50,000 people have died and more than 100,000 others have been injured. According to the Prime Ministerial Crisis Management Centre, 845 people were killed and 4,948 others were injured in the flat earthquake. In addition, many buildings were destroyed in both earthquakes, so many were left homeless. At that time, the earthquake was widely discussed, detailed by experts. In the areas of the earthquake, buildings have been found to be uninstigated. Several warnings have been issued regarding the earthquake, which is expected to be in Istanbul, and it has been revealed that immediate measures must be taken. However, serious steps have not been taken in Istanbul on issues of vital importance, such as building inspections, awareness of the public, overhaul of public spaces. The government and local government, which act on the mentality of leaving everything to the last moment, are very reckless about something so important that millions of people are at risk of losing their lives. Recent statements by experts have allowed us to reminisce about the risk of earthquakes and the bad consequences. Experts have said that local governments do not separate the necessary resources for adequate research and determination, explaining that the symptoms prior to the 1999 earthquake have been seen as a result of studies under the Sea of Marmara. Given the rapid population growth in Istanbul, unscheduled and unsupervised urbanization, the destruction of the earthquake will be higher than predicted. Therefore, immediate measures must be taken. First, public awareness of the issue must be carried out in this direction. It is imperative that the number of trained search and rescue teams be increased. In order for public buildings to be overhauled, the necessary research and determinations to be made, the necessary resource must be separated and the immediate solutions must be implemented immediately. Istanbul's preparation for an earthquake is out of the question, with a sense of disregard for human life, science and academic studies. In an effort to study and determine the measures to be taken in Istanbul, the Constitution is 98. And 104 of Turkey's Parliamentary Council of the National Assembly. And 105. We respectfully submit to the opening of a parliamentary investigation. 1) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Inconceived]] [[İzmir]] [[Tunceli]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[Eskişehir]] 10) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 11) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Adıyaman]] 13) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] [[Mughle]] 17) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] 18) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 19) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrukulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 21) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 22) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our country is 178,000 km, on the coast of the different ecological land, the Black Sea, the Marmara, the Aegean and the Mediterranean. The coast-long stream is a country that has rich fishing resources, both in the sea and in internal waters, with 200 natural lakes over 1 million hectares and 3,42km of dam lakes. Around 5,000 species of living creatures are known to live in the Mediterranean Seas of Turkey and around 700 species in the Black Sea. In the Black Sea, there are 247 species of fish in the Sea of Marmara, 200 species in the Aegean Sea, 300 in the Aegean Sea, and 500 in the Mediterranean Sea. Despite all this wealth, the fisheries industry is at an impasse as a result of the lack of modern, efficient policies about fishing in our country, the lack of new practices that could adapt to this development despite the rapid development of world fishing technology, the failure of a scientific institution to support and direct such an important sector. The world's population growth increases people's dietary needs by day, causing them to experience food shortages. Development countries are taking measures to meet food needs and to increase national resource revenues; they strive to live in a civilized way through economic, social and other protective services. Therefore, the importance of fishing should be assessed as well as because of its high protein contribution to human nutrition. In world fishing, the growth of crops that grow by hunting is being met by breeding. In our country, especially in the seas, there are debates about the dense pollution of the environment. In fact, the sustainable development of growth depends on the first-degree quality environment and water. Therefore, growth investments must be in harmony with the environment, and their negative effects must be minimal. Because farming is not only a food producer, it is also a consumer and waste producer competing for limited resources. Therefore, programmes and technologies that can increase information on the interactions between farming and natural systems and reduce the effects need to be supported. To address these problems, the priorities and roles of both the state and the growth sector must be determined and assumed. In the early 1970s, early 1970s, the first practices in the European fisheries area were on the agenda to organise access to fishing sites and markets and structures. The arrangements allowed fishermen to enter the hunting grounds with equal rights, and agreed to establish a common policy to preserve their rights with international treaties. Turkey, which is more advantageous in water products and water areas than most countries, is still treated as a step-son of the fishing sector 37 years after European regulations took place. In our country, there is a huge lack of resources, control and control, structural actions, market policy, state aid and the social problems of our fishermen. This indifference also shows itself in fishing research. According to OECD countries' spending on fishing management in 2000, there is a serious gap between the financial funds for fishing in Turkey and the spending of other countries. The OECD report showed that Turkey's funds for fishing management were "unrecognized." Turkey, on the other hand, produces more fish than any country on the coast of the Mediterranean, except Spain, and is a country in the world to have a say in the matter. The 98th Constitution to determine the problems and solutions of fishing in our country in order to find a way to address the national problems of our fishing and to discuss the issue under Parliament. And 104th of Turkey's Grand National Assembly Charter. And 105. We respectfully submit to the opening of a parliamentary investigation. 1) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] [[Hatay]] 8) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] 9) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] [[Mughle]] [[Inconceived]] 16) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 17) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 18) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 21) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 22) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Citizens of Alevi Islam, whose numbers are estimated to be more than 20 million, have significant and serious problems in living and living their beliefs and cultures. Alevis have suffered various massacres and slanders in history, their beliefs and cultures have been humiliated, abandoned. Even today, some of them are deliberate, and some of them unfairly accused of ignorance. It is sad that even the person and institutions who need to inform the community correctly sometimes participate in these unjust words and descriptions. The nation's main element, the Laik Republic, Ataturk principles, revolutions, and the unitary structure of the State, is ignored by the demands that our Alevi citizens have expressed over the years, without breaking, and within legal boundaries, concerning their beliefs and culture. In denial of the state's concerned institutions, by refusing to accept the Aleviism as a different interpretation of Islam, Alevi forces our citizens to accept the rules and customs of Sunni Islam. It violates both the Constitution and human rights. The Aleki demand for equality and rights based on the right to equal citizenship has not been met in 10 years despite its reflection in EU progress reports and the decisions of the ECHR. And the problem is becoming increasingly international. The main demands for the worship of the Cemevs, the removal of the mandatory religion class, or the election of the Sunni Islamic religion, the restructuring of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, the ending of mosques in the villages of Alevi, and the removal of obstacles in front of the people of Alevi to express themselves have been unappreciated, unappreciated, not deserved for years. So, our citizens of Alevi Islam, who have the most fundamental rights to their faith and culture, the obstacles and problems they face are not solved, but they seem to have the opposite efforts. As a result, in order to determine the problems that our citizens of Alevi Islam have had about living their faith and culture and expressing themselves and the measures that need to be taken to address these problems, the Constitution is 98. And your index is 104. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we respectfully present the opening of a Parliamentary Research. 26.07.2011 [[Ardahan]] [[Tekirdağ]] 3) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[Inconceived]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] 10) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] 11) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Manisa]] [[Mersin]] [[Mughle]] 17) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Reza Mahmut Çürmen [[İzmir]] 20) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] 22) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. There's a motion for a gene. The motion has already been suppressed and distributed to the members today. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Republican People's Party Municipality has claimed to have helped the PKK by taking credit from German Foundations but has made clear statements of lies and targets rather than proving its claim, the Constitution 112th. We offer and offer with respect to the opening of the geneor under Article 106 of the Constitution, 98th and 99th Amendment clauses of the Constitution on Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who does not carry out "the duties of the ministers are to be carried out in accordance with the Constitution and the law." Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who made an official visit to the Republic of Macedonia on 29 September 2011, claimed that in the return phase of this two-day visit, municipalities from the CHP signed a loan agreement with a foundation in Germany and transferred money to the PKK in this way. The prime minister's office requires that these verbs, which are clearly considered criminal, be revealed and brought to justice, be more than admissible. Prime Minister Erdogan said on October 3, 2011, prior to his visit to South Africa. At the moment, the leader of the main opposition party will look into his own municipalities. 'Let him ask which one of you is in a credit meeting with any of the German Foundations.' It's not a small town, it's not a town hall, and if he investigates, I'll put that much aside. I've narrowed down the working ground even further. Using his expressions, he's moved his claim to the size of a doodle. The municipalities are executive institutions, and all their work and transactions are subject to audit. The fact that the office responsible for doing so has made a clear criminal accusation, such as helping the terrorist organization without doing so, is one of the verbs in which our laws are considered criminal. Prime Minister Erdogan must explain with all documents which municipalities of the Republican People's Party received illegal money from German Foundations and transferred money to a terrorist organization called the PKK. The prime minister's office is a position that monitors the elimination of all corruption, unlawfulness, the legal execution of all business and transactions. Lies can't be a place where both moral and legal inadmissible words and actions, such as slander, are carried out. While Prime Minister Erdogan has not hesitated to slander Republican People's Party municipalities, he has ignored the corruption of some AKP municipalities, irregularities in their tenders, and has clearly made statements and actions to prevent the investigation of these verbs, moving to the judiciary. For example, with Prime Minister Erdogan's information, the Interior Ministry does not allow legal investigation into the move of corruption committed by AKP municipalities to the judiciary. Controls carried out in other opposition parties' municipalities, particularly CHP, have clearly turned out to be a violation of the rights and laws of the mayors, where investigations are not control and investigation activities. Since these developments show that Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan is far away from carrying out his duties and that he is in a state of insecurity due to his turning lies and slander into a form of politics, it would be appropriate to open a geneor under Article 106 of the Constitution's 98th and 99th, under Articles 106th. It has been presented to your knowledge. A recommendation from the Council of Counsellors, covering the day of the meeting on whether or not the client will be taken into consideration, will then be submitted to your votes. The Party of Peace and Democracy has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it, process it, and then I'll vote for you. 17.11.2011 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote at the Council's 1711.2011 meeting Thursday (Today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On November 01, 2011, the Parliamentary Research Front, which was given to the Turkish Parliament on the basis of other proposals to submit to the information of the General Assembly, was recommended to be read on the same day, to assess the results of the adoption of Family Medicine, which began under the name of Transmutation (139 rows), and to be held in the same date of the talks Thursday (1711.2011.11). In favour of the proposal, Bingöl MP İdris Baluken. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0041par0429	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to start by respectfully greeting your committee. I have made a commitment today to make some determination regarding the results of the family medicine system, which was implemented in 2005. However, I will try to make my speech around a general framework for the Health Transformation Project, which is part of the family medicine system. Dear lawmakers, the implementation of the Health Transformation Project, which was introduced in 2003, continues in the same way, despite intense public criticism. It has been revealed that the main goal of these practices is to prevent health from being a public service which should be given by the understanding of the social state. The health system is a profitable sector for capital groups that are trying to adapt to market conditions. All of these applications were planned to create space for the private sector, and large monopoly groups in the private sector were intended to dominate. Dear lawmakers, the first step of the Health Transformation Project was carried out by public health insurance. We're just beginning to face the real consequences because the applications for general health insurance are being activated piece by piece. At the time of general health insurance today, the premium system is envisioned, and the understanding of health as well as money has been established. In this context, the same practice will be introduced for our citizens with green cards in January 2012. We will be subject to the government's income test of green Cards. Here we find it useful to elaborate on the practice that the government is trying to smuggle out of the public's eyes. We still have about 9.5 million citizens with green cards in our country. In general health insurance, according to the green card income test, the premiums of our citizens, with less than a third of the minimum wage, will be paid by the state. This amount corresponds to 279 TL. A premium must be paid to receive $34 a month health care from our citizens, whose monthly income is between $279 and $887. Green card holders, again between $887 and $1,674, will have to pay 100 lira a month. For green card holders with monthly income over $1,674 TL, this amount is set at $201. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to elaborate with a concrete example here. For example, a citizen with a green card with a income of $280 a month will pay $34 a month as a bonus, as a premium for public health insurance. Other than that, when he goes to the hospital, he will have to pay for an eight-dollar share of examinations every time he goes to the pharmacy, and when he receives medicine, he will have to pay for 20 per cent of the drug turnout. Koah, given that chronic diseases such as hypertension, diabetes have a high frequency of admissions to hospitals, it is unlikely that a citizen with $300 a month would be able to cover their medical expenses with this level of income. This practice is effective in all areas where the green card is common. For example, more than 50 percent of our people are now using green card and health care in Bingol, for example, and the majority of the people who benefit from this green card do not have the power to pay this insurance premium. We know very well that the introduction of an obligation to use health care for 34 lira a month will bring with it a result that most of our citizens do not benefit from health care. So the period of honeymoon in the Health Transformation Project and general health insurance has ended, and has begun to bring bitter prescriptions to the public, because the process of providing the AKP government with its own institutional, institutional organisation in the 2007-09 and 2011 elections has been completed. Now the bitter prescriptions are somehow coming to society. My fellow lawmakers, the second step in opening health to market conditions is the transition to the family medicine system. We are curious as a society about the consequences of the family medicine system, which reverses foster care, prevents therapeutic health care, and therefore prevents uncontrollable drug consumption. In family medicine practice, the functioning of family health centers is entirely in the form of small, private clinics. The physician and assistant medical staff have been charged with all expenses from the electricity and water money found in this practice to the monthly salary of the assistant medical staff. In such an environment, it stands before us as a clear reality that the continuation of business activities of this workplace, which is more like a business, rather than mental activities and medical services to cure the patient. The family physician, who is paid according to the number of patients he looks at, is also subject to sanctions, wages, and salaries according to the number of transfers he makes. Under the main topics of family medicine, we can rank the handicaps as follows: First step health care is reduced from institutional structure to practice level. The concept of the region in health is being eliminated and protective health care, based on the number of registered persons, is fragmented. Family medicines are classified according to technical equipment, work and promotion. This will gradually increase the contribution they're trying to make. As we go through the family medicine system, the first step is not considered in the presentation of health care: health needs, demographics of the population, socioeconomics, cultural conditions, number of health workers, diversity, quality, and geographical properties of the place. Since we won't have time to elaborate and explain all of this here, I'd just like to give you a practical example of understanding. We find it difficult to understand the logic that health planning in Istanbul is the same as the health plan in the village of Mirzan and Yenimahalle. My fellow lawmakers, since there are no available number of family physicians in this family medicine system without infrastructure preparation, this level of medical deficit has been attempted by practitioners. In particular, this has caused serious problems in hospital emergency rooms. For example, we can elaborate the problems that are still going on here at the Diyarbakır Training and Research Hospital where I work: At Diyarbakir Education and Research Hospital, right now, practitioners or specialists with emergency experience in the emergency room do not keep watch. Right now, we're talking 12-hour shifts with an eye specialist and a psychiatrist. A heart attack patient or an ophthalmologist, suffering from multiple organ injuries in a car accident, is asked to take care of an ophthalmologist. The hospital we're talking about has over 700 patients in 12 hours. In this case, when we calculate the time set aside for each patient, we see less than a minute here, so in less than a minute, the ophthalmologist is trying to take the patient's anamnesic without experience, to do an examination, to assess the results, to diagnose the results, and to treat the patient according to this diagnosis. Of course, this brings with it some very serious health problems. Here, however, the medical and health care workers are billed for the problems caused by the sick and the sick. In his statement to the media about emergency services with such difficulties, the period of expert examination in the emergency services has begun. There is some misleading information in the form of public opinion. In this short period of time, the name of caring for so many patients does not even deserve to be examined, let alone an attending, or even called a medical examination.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0042par0446	Please complete your statement.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0041par0447	My fellow lawmakers, there are serious concerns in public, trade organisations, trade unions, and democratic opposition regarding the Public Hospital Union Bill, which was launched on November 2nd in the form of a midnight operation. With regard to these concerns, we want to share with you both by preparing questions and by constantly bringing up the issue. In particular, the final phase of privatisation practices in health is the State of the Law, which includes the passing Bill of the Public Hospital Associations. We also know that hospitals will be first autonomized and then privatized in the earlier practices. I'd like to extend my regards to all of you by saying that we will share with you the details of this ruling under the Law later.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0043par0451	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. İstanbul MP Türkan Dağoğlu against the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Mountainoglu.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0044par0455	Mr. President, the right to live is nature's most natural right to human beings, and health is one of life's most fundamental stones. The goal of health transformations is to improve the quality of life for every citizen living in Turkey, to use the country's resources in the most rational way and to ensure the distribution of resources in accordance with fairness. Therefore, our government has decided to take important steps to meet the demands of our people that have been delayed for years and that we believe they no longer have the patience to wait in the field of health, in accordance with scientific, world standards, as well as the reality of the country. In this framework, the Health Transformation Programme is a very important step in line with public restructuring. As it is known, public hospitals, insurance hospitals, and institutional hospitals have been merged into the common service of all our citizens, taking the first step towards the transformation of health.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0045par0458	Mr. President, where are the ministers? They're disrespecting the congressman. There's no minister, no cavas, and they're acting as ministers!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0044par0459	Congressmans, this has undoubtedly been thought of by other governments, but there is something said about it, which is always said, that those who touch them burn. This is indeed a major success in Turkey's health system today. Following this, family medicine is aimed at strengthening primary health care. We know that most of the patients' problems can be solved in step one, and hospital clinics are filled with these kinds of patients. The activation of the system and unnecessary collapses in our hospitals have been reduced by this practice of family medicine. We believe that the discussion of family medicine or general practice -- which has been carried out by different groups to achieve such a goal -- as the Congressman has just expressed -- is inappropriate. As a specialty, family physicians are outnumbered in our country, which is well known to everyone. The practice has been deemed appropriate for existing practitioners to begin with a short-term education, thus being supported by continuous training as the most practical solution. Such a start has also helped to restore reputation to the fallen practitioners who have lost identity and prestige in our country. Third, a general health insurance system covering the general population has been implemented. Congressmans, transformations and changes are always difficult and painful, disturbing the established, which is only possible by taking a difficult and difficult step. Children between the ages of zero and eighteen are already insured as soon as they are born today. I'm an academic and a physician who's had years of pain and distress in hospitals, and we've had a lot of patients who've died on the road because they couldn't deposit their child's money because they didn't have any money. I wonder who's responsible for all this until now. However, the AK PARTY government established and placed a zero-18-year-old insurance system that brought that comfort to hospitals and strengthened the hands of physicians. An irregular population growth has always shown us that instead of accepting the past, we have to adapt to the present, instead of accepting the fact that the ghettos are growing from village to city with their regular characteristics and the terrible cliffs in the income distribution. Today, it is our duty to adapt the 1960s'logical door to the changed conditions of the 21st century, Turkey. Mr. President, the Delegation Programme for Health is a comprehensive programme that aims to create the most appropriate solutions with the participation and democratic decision-making processes that have taken into account all the work that has been done so far. Today in Turkey, the first-born infant deaths, the most beautiful sign of the development of a society, have fallen from the 60th to the 10ths in a thousand. In Sweden, where everything is for children, and in the next United States and Japan, these values vary between 4 and 7 per thousand. In Turkey today, these values are around ten percent, and we are proud of these values at meetings as physicians. Because it appears as a sign of society's development. The success of the Program today is evident from public well - being. From 39 per cent to 79 per cent, the national synergy, the trust and support of our people in this area, has brought us to success. That's why I thank you, Mr. President, and all of you, for giving me this opportunity to speak.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0046par0467	Thank you, Mr. Mountainoglu. In favor of the proposal, Mersin MP Aytug Thrower... Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0047par0471	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. I have made a pledge in favor of the BDP group proposal. Dear friends, today we're discussing the family medicine system, step one health care. I'd like to say that the family medicine system is part of what we physicians call a health-changing program. If you ask, what is a transformation in health? Change in health is a law that brings marketing, privatisation of health. Mr. Health Minister continues to empty the concepts using fancy words as usual. Dear friends, the Minister of Health says: "We will apply general health insurance." If you look inside, it has general health, insurance, everything sounds good. Everyone thinks this law will cover everyone, and everyone will happily benefit from it. On the other hand, you're looking at the fact that at the end of this year, Mr. Secretary, the green card will be terminated. Right after that, this government brings up the full-day law, which is another step in the health-return program, and it's beautiful. The Republican People's Party wants a full day, too; good. The Turkish Medical Association wants full-time, and all the unions want full-time. You're saying it's great. You look at the law, and there's performance coming out of it, and there's money gushing out of it. We're calling it no, and we're taking it to the Constitutional Court, but we're already drafting a bill for the beautiful social health policies that tells the Republican People's Party what it wants, and we're giving it to Parliament. Right behind it comes the concept of public hospital troops with another leg in the health program, the law. You can see that it's hollowed out just like the others. And you can see from here that hospitals are now a business facility, a contractual staff of all personnel. Let's go back to family medicine. Family medicine is no different than any other concept. It sounds so good, family medicine. There's a family in it, a physician in it. So you put positive perception, positive perceptions in a very nice way in society. What in God's name do you know about family medicine? Everyone thinks every family has a doctor. Just like the other speaker mentioned, everyone thinks the first step is going to strengthen health care. You look back at one family's physicians, the woman's physician at another center, your husband's physician at another center, the child's physician at another center. That's the concept of family medicine.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0048par0479	There's no such thing. We go to the same doctor.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0047par0480	Don't do any hand gestures, go and question them, you'll see how many people are registered in different physicians in my neighborhood. Nobody talks without knowing about family medicine. You know what you did?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0048par0482	Not at all.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0047par0483	Don't say it's irrelevant. You know what you did? You put people in a cabana like you're giving the orange grove to a cabaret. That's exactly what you're doing. You've connected 3,000 people to 1 physician. You went back, you went around, and then you gave some money to the doctor for these 3,000 people, and from that money, you said to the public, "We pay the doctor a lot of money."
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0048par0484	People see what's done in health.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0047par0485	We turned around, how much money is the doctor getting paid? Well, come on, you paid 6,000 lira. And then you came back to this doctor, and you said, "Wait a minute, you're going to pay for the table you're sitting at, you're going to pay for the building you're serving. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Man, if you have any objections, just say so, and go look at your law, for God's sake. You asked that doctor for the rent on his desk. You said to the doctor: "You will pay the rent of the building in which you serve. " It was not enough, you gave only one family health worker, you asked the physician for the money of the second family health worker. They asked, "Who will clean the floors? You have loaded his money, insurance, and everything with the physician. Then you turn around and say: "We are strengthening the first step. You have made the first step into a business. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thanks to you, physicians became employers. The practice of family medicine has turned physicians into employers, made health institutions into businesses, and naturally patients have become customers. The speaker just said: "The unnecessary piles in hospitals have been prevented by strengthening family medicine. For God's sake, when you're in your way, go to the emergency room of any public hospital, even if you're not sick, see how many hours an average patient is waiting." We did a study in Mersin, where an average patient will be waiting in an emergency room for two and a half hours at Mersin State Hospital or other state hospitals.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0049par0492	Date...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0050par0493	Where?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0047par0494	In public hospitals.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0050par0495	What does a date do?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0047par0496	I'm talking about emergency services. Do you know how long the E.R. exam is, Congressman? Two and a half minutes and...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0051par0497	Is there a dead patient next?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0047par0498	I'll tell you, I'll tell you about the dead patients, don't worry... don't worry... Our kids are being examined in two and a half minutes. Do you know about this? And who in God's name would want to be the 170th patient of a doctor in this room? How can you go public when you don't get your kicks? If you say you want to be the 170th patient in two and a half minutes, come on in and say it in public, but you'll go public with it. And you get up and you say, "We've given the Pratian physicians dignity." For God's sake, put your hands on your conscience.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0052par0501	He voted 50%.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0047par0502	The violence against the physician is increasing. You devalued physicians, made the work of physicians meaningless. And then you get up, and you say, "Pratisian... if the practitioner was so important, why are you trying to make all of the practitioners into family health specialists by remote training?" I thought you said the GP was valuable. The practice physician is really valuable. We're all GPs, but you'll have to return the rights of the GPs first. Then you'll wake up and say that physicians are really valuable, especially practitioners. However, Mr. Hajji Türkan Dağoğlu said that he was very...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0053par0504	All physicians are valuable, and both practitioners and specialists are valuable.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0047par0505	Sir, just listen for a minute. So if you listen, I'll tell you all about it. Come talk to me if you know too much. I agree with Mr. Hodja on one thing, he said that health care is the most basic human right. Healthy living is the most basic human right. The Constitution has given the state and therefore the government that governs the state the duty of protecting the health of its citizens. And where he can't protect it, he's responsible for treating it. Therefore, you cannot privatise health. You can't hand this mission over to someone else, not even a physician, my friends. You are obliged to offer health care free, accessible, quality and equal. You're saying that the Change of Health Program is participatory and democratic. For God's sake, turn around and look what you've done. Find out what democracy is. For God's sake, you didn't come to beat me, did you? I'm more bored with raping the bench than I am with... who, for God's sake, did you ask during the Health Transformation Program? You asked the doctors, the unions, the doctors, the pharmacists, the nurses? You didn't ask any of them, so you brought this to the House? Which one of you thinks it's okay to make a ruling on the law without bringing it to the House? For God's sake, this MP has honor too. Come on, you dishonored the physicians, and you dishonored the legislature? Get up, bring it in, let's talk properly here, let's talk about our problems, let's get out of here. Don't we want the full day? Bring him in, we'll pass him. Look, we have an offer on the law. We wouldn't do that if we didn't want to. Dear friends...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0054par0508	Hodja, you've got a red helicopter over your head. That ambulance is a helicopter.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0047par0509	I hope you don't need that ambulance one day. When you need that ambulance, you'll find out you're not a doctor. You put them in the ambulances, you took out the nurses, you took out the doctors.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0054par0510	There's a doctor, there's a doctor...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0047par0511	When that ambulance is needed, a lot has changed and it will be over for you. If anything were to happen to you here right now, we'd still get up and interfere with you. You'll need physicians again. Never forget that.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0054par0512	You took a Hippocratic oath. You're gonna do it anyway.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0047par0513	I did. First of all, I'm faithful to my oath. I don't lie against oaths like others. If you're needy, I'll help you too.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0055par0515	Remember how those hospitals used to be?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0047par0516	My dear friends, look, you've done the Change in Health Program. You've brought family medicine. Mr. Hajji knows very well. Can't this work without a chain of transport? If you don't get up and do the chain of transport, if you don't set up the chain of transport to the public hospital from step one to step two, will it work or not? It didn't, and it won't. You've tried three places, three places... you've pulled them out of fear. Why? Because the public really got to you back then. So there's no way you can talk about family medicine anymore. You've reached a point where you've made it a commodity that can be bought and sold. It's officially costing me.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0056par0517	Teacher, he's our pride, he's our face, Hajji. Don't talk about it. Our face, our face...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0047par0518	I'm about to tell you what you are, a disgrace or a face-blower?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0057par0519	Everybody's happy, everybody.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0047par0520	You've put health on the market so much that health has become a commodity, Congressman. Look, I'll give you an example.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0058par0522	Please complete your statement, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0047par0523	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0059par0524	You mean the knife money.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0047par0525	I can tell who's bringing in the money for the knife and who's taking it. You've made your health information so tempting that your general manager's password has been hacked into the system that you've created, and you've made all the information we've protected before our dignity, what we call privacy. They're all hand-me-downs, hand-me-downs. Don't laugh Mr. Hajji, go investigate. I'll let you know what general manager's password he went in with later. In fact, I gave the House a motion to ask, and I said, "How many patients have been informed by unauthorized people? How did the information that was stolen in this system become?.... and then there was no hisses from the Ministry of Health. You're saying: "We're delighted." The people are pleased.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0060par0528	The people are pleased, the people.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0047par0529	No, sir. Just as the people of Van were pleased, how they became in a small earthquake. They were pleased in Bingol, and how they became. And in a small earthquake in health, you'll see what you'll become, whether you're a face-white or a disgrace. You've come in good health, you'll go in good health. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0061par0533	Thank you, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0062par0534	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0061par0535	Here you go, Mountainoglu.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0062par0536	Can I give you an answer?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0061par0537	For what?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0062par0538	May I give an answer to Congressman Aytug? Can I make a statement?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0061par0539	Enter the system, please. I'll give you an explanation based on 60.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0062par0540	Dear President, dear lawmakers, my dear brother Aytug, who I work with, who we have always strengthened our work together. But my dear brother Aytug, I've known you for a long time... you know we've all worked together in the same community, but I'm asking for something. You have ears, you don't hear, you have eyes, you don't see, you have a conscience, you don't feel.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0063par0542	He's out of doctor's style.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0061par0543	Mr. Dağoglu, you wanted to make a commitment to contribute, but you gave me the opportunity to pick on you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0063par0544	That's not doctor language, that's street language.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0064par0545	So that's an answer? No scientific data was presented.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0061par0546	Mr. Mountainoglu, it didn't happen.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0065par0547	Mr. President, you heard the taunt with your ears. I want a promise.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0066par0548	It's an insult.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0061par0549	Here you go. [[From the AK PARTY rows, the sounds, the noise.]] Congressmans, please excuse me for a moment. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0067par0555	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Hodja, out of respect for you, I won't tell you anything, but I have ears, I hear you. You know that very well. My eyes are open, my heart is open.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0068par0557	That's what I knew.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0067par0558	I have a conscience, and my heart is open, as are some. Mr. Hodja, health is a really important issue. Health is what we all need. The marketing of health can never be considered. I understand the AKP's defense, but I'll never understand your defense, in any way. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Health is a constitutional right. Health, not only in our Constitution, is the most sacred human right to be determined by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. What we want is for physicians to work in a valuable way, without money in their heads, under no pressure of any kind. You say the right thing, but you get up from behind it, and you pay for the health care that should be free. Did I put the safe in step one? You didn't? We didn't? For God's sake! So your Prime Minister, your Minister of Health, said: "Let everyone put their birth certificate in their pockets, let them go to any health centre, let them go to any health centre, let them have a physical examination." We applauded very well, and we said: "They'll probably do a good job." We turned around, and you brought $2 to the first digit, and we turned around, and you brought $8 to the second digit, and you brought $15 to private hospitals. Now, what happened? You tell me to put a birth certificate in one pocket, and you tell me to put a wallet in the other.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0069par0562	No.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0067par0563	For God's sake! At least don't play with health. Look, guys, everything can be fine. The political laws passed here, the wrong laws, they come back one day and they do better, but you can't fix the defect in health. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0070par0567	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Against the proposal, Karamanmarash MP Yıldırım Mehmet Ramazanoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Ramazanoglu.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0071par0574	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear fellow congressmen, I salute you all. First of all, it's been a little bit of a high blood pressure, so I'd like to make a brief introduction to another matter that has nothing to do with it, if you'll excuse me. First of all, one of our friends who had already spoken of his place said: "There are no physicians in the PATIPY?" As you have just seen, Mr. Türkan Dağoğlu asked for a speech on this matter. And as a doctor, I'm against you as a neuroscientist of both child health and disease, and I'm pretty sure that all of our other groups, our political parties, have really valued colleagues, and of course, we have valued colleagues in the AK PARTI Group. Obviously, some technical issues have been discussed here, so I'd like to continue these technical issues without going into too much detail and give some answers, but first of all, friends, in order to lower the tension again, we've formed a group of talks called science, communication and technology. It's open to all of our esteemed MPs. It's completely independent of ideology, party, politics, to have a conversation between us at certain hours of science, communication and technology, and I'm inviting you to this group right now. Let's hope we're going to hold the meeting hours on this one. Dear friends, as far as we're concerned, I agree with the words of my previous speaker brother, my dear colleague. The Health Transformation Project has really been a total demolition project. Ruined what? He broke down the walls between the doctors and the patients. Ruined the relationship between doctors and patients. So, now that family medicine has been focused on, I'd like to bring up some information about it, since the motion has already been made. When, frankly, was the family medicine completed in 2005, which began to apply, the application framework? It was completed in 2010. Dear friends, it is not an easy task to complete such a wonderful project in five years, so that the establishment of family medicine can be addressed to the entire Turkish sath, our 74 million population. Of course, to give you some numbers on these, I always want to compare them to 2002, if you'll allow me. Now, when we compare 2002 to 2010 data, we see that in 2002, the total number of patients applying to the clinics was 59 million, and by the end of 2010, the number of patients applying in one year reached 199 million. So it's almost four times more polyclinic.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0072par0582	People are so sick!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0071par0583	If you take into account not only the health clinics, but all public hospitals, university hospitals, all health institutions, 280 million clinics were made in 2010. When we compare this to 2002, we compare it to about 65 million polyclinics, and we're looking at about four times as many polyclinics. 112 Emergency... frankly, my friends, the number of emergency services 112 has been increased by four times. Again, we're comparing the numbers from 2002 to 2010. Another important thing is that when we compare patients with an exam room, the number of patients per exam room has been reduced by four times, from 10,786 to 3,650. This shows how many opportunities have been offered to our patients, how diversified the ability to access the patient's doctor, his treatment. Now, of course, it's possible to replicate examples like this. Especially since our clinics later turned into family medicines, it allowed family medicines to provide a more standard, quality service. Because family physicians provide a team service, friends. All the partners and participants in this team service -- the people who are involved here -- have indeed, in this sense, raised the level of satisfaction in health care from 43 per cent to 87 per cent. The level of satisfaction in 2002 is 43 percent, and the rate of satisfaction at the end of 2010 is 87 per cent. Of course, here I am, comparing the average of all university hospitals, public hospitals, health centers and family clinics, between 2002 and 2010. But as a matter of fact, I want to talk about something very different. We've been talking about the family clinic for years. I'm a graduate of Hacettepe Medical School. The notion given to us at Hacettepe Medical School is that I would like to remember our Nusret Firework Teacher, the deceased, here, in your presence, especially in gratitude. Dear Hodja, you know, he was a social democrat, but he had something he had dreamed of for years. I'm a person who's proud to be his student. At the time, the concept was called the socialization of health care, and then the concept changed, and it became the law of the day. You'll appreciate that, in the late Mr. Ecevit's time, this full-time law was tried to be enforced, and our highly valued CHP MPs and our earlier SHP brothers have given serious support. However, this project, which had not been carried out for various reasons, was granted to the EC PARTY. As a result, the Full-Day Law was carried out in a much more perfect way than it had previously been designed. So, what makes it so much better? Here is the family health and family medicine project, which was completed at the end of December 31st in 2010, spread throughout Turkey. Now, I'd like to brief both our valued citizens and your valued lawmakers on this family medicine project. First of all, friends, there's a very important IT project under this family medicine project. I'm also an IT expert, so I've been in this world since the computer was invented. Do you know what the basis of this IT project is for the editing of family medicine? So it's a completely computerized version of real-life applications. What I'm trying to say is, hold on to a citizen's phone call, hold on to the recording of his phone calls, hold on to the fact that the dating system is happening, that our patient's family physician will be examined there, prescribed, and diagnosed, and then reported, described, informed, and then sent home, and then set up for the next inspection date, and then logged back into the computer, and I'll tell you what's going to happen next, and you know what's going to happen? I'd like to ask our dear medical doctor friends, one day, to take their time, get into this family medicine information system. Examples of this are on our Ministry of Health website, where they have a sample demo video system. From there, from the video, you're going to see how the process works step by step, just like you've been in there with a family physician, and when you watch it, you're going to see how much medical intelligence there is under it, and how important it is that all of the needs of the patients are being met in the most efficient and scientific way, and imagine that the codification of the ICD-10 has been added to it. It's a technical term, but let me briefly put it this way: this is what we call International Codifiction of Diseases. The International Coding System of Diseases was integrated into this system, and this is how the system was completed. So what I'm trying to say is that my family physician friend is sitting at the head of the computer, just by clicking, without writing, by processing all of the open menus we call Pop-up menus, which are normally able to solve the patient's problems in a perfect information environment by spending way too much time during patient examination. It's not over, it can make these problems open to all of them. A patient there, that doctor friend of ours, may be able to access the information of the system by opening it to another physician he wants to consult with. In this sharing of information, of course, a very important project has been carried out, which, given the patient's studies, the results of the tests, and the films in some way, has indeed been regarded as a very important example in the world, causing our Minister of Health to be appreciated and congratulated by the World Health Agency. We, as physicians and as society, have to support this project seriously. As a matter of fact, society has shown its support at 50 percent. I especially ask you to look at the statistical figures of the level of satisfaction, especially if the level of satisfaction of patients in 43 percent in 2002 is up to 87 per cent today, and I really believe that you will appreciate the efforts and performance behind it, especially these important projects and incentives that our government has established, which are highly effective, without any sacrifice, especially by our Prime Minister. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0073par0598	Thank you, Mr. Ramazanoglu. I'd like you to vote...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0074par0602	We have a roll call.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit01spe0073par0603	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Sertier, Mr. Acar, Mr. Mr. Akar, Mr. Kicker, Mr. Değirmedereli, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Susam, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Sun, Mr. Öner; yes. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There are enough meetings, and I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute recess.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0073par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 20th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The National Party of Action Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and then submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors (17.11.2011) was not unanimous at the meeting of Thursday (now), I would like to ask that the following proposal of our group be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. Yours truly. On Thursday (October 11th 2011) it has been suggested that our parliamentary research proposal (now) be read in the General Assembly on Thursday 17,11,2011 (now) in order to determine and assess issues related to the potential of our country's export and protect our narensian producers from the price fluctuations in the market and assess the potential of our country's exports. In favor of the proposal, Mersin MP Ali Oz.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0075par0016	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself in favor of the group's proposal for the nationalist movement party regarding the problems of the narciatrist manufacturer. I salute the High Council. As you all know, our country has an important place in the world market, especially in exports, in the production of citrus. Turkey is a country that produces 5 million tons of citrus annually. Especially since our region is growing more and more in our region, the Mediterranean region and the Aegean region are facing serious problems in our areas and in the beginning of these provinces, especially Mersin. The people of Erdem, who want to share their voices with the entire Turkish Parliament in a way that is increasingly loud these days, are expecting clear statements, clear solution proposals about this problem, which has been brought up earlier with both power and opposition, especially about the narcissist of our great Parliament. In the past time as opposition MPs, the problems of our country were often expressed, especially in the agriculture area and in the narcissist, but most of its wisdom was ignored by power. Some of the narcissist is in exports in our country, while some of it's used in the domestic market, it may sound a little strange, but some of the narcissist's producers are either at the edges of the creek -- after the time of the loss -- or if he finds a politician coming to his territory, he's either putting it in front of him or he's going into other actions. For today, the lemon manufacturers say they can still make their products cut for only 35 to 40 cents on the branch, and sell them for 40 cents on the dollar. In 2002, they could sell about a million pounds of lemons. Today, however, the increasing cost of agricultural input has brought these producers into serious difficult situations. The incentive for exports may be given as incentives, may be seen as incentives, but the practice is that if you can sell a ton of citrus for $790, you can get a $125 incentive. Today, however, it is impossible to sell a ton of citrus in the reality of the world and the reality of our country in exports at $790. That means you're going to sell one kilo for $1,400,000 in exports. Today, however, we know that exporters can only sell about 700,000 or 750 thousand pounds, thus reducing their incentive by 50 percent. Since the incentives to export are not given in time, it is not reflected in the manufacturer, but in the end of the harvest season, the manufacturer stays in a heap of trees, trees, branches, lemons, oranges, oranges, or tangerines. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, my dear friends, of course we all know the need to modernise agriculture. We all have to worry about changing the ecological balance in the world, the narrowing of agricultural fields, that it will make our country a dependent country in agriculture. These improvements in the field of agriculture are clear that if we don't modernise them, the fact that if we don't try to be a salve to the problems of agricultural producers, farmers, narcissists, producers will suffer, not just them, but us as a society. As the opposition MP, I strongly suggest that the support of the narcissist manufacturers should be explained, determined, and given directly, in cash, before the start of the harvest season, especially in July, August. The support that will be given to the narcissistic export, especially in the outside markets, must be able to compete with our exporters. Support for exporters per ton is not reflected in the manufacturer for today, as I just expressed their numbers, but the producers are seriously disturbed by this issue. The Lamas lemon is a lemon that you all know is a lemon that you use heavily at your table, but it turns out that today on the coast of Lamas, lemon producers are using their lemon trees in a way that they've produced in five or six years of great labor, in the trees they've performed, in order to produce fruit, in which they've been waiting for 15 or 20 years, while the narcissist manufacturer has fallen, most of them have been cutting down because of this condition, or using their land in some other way, or particularly in the area of agriculture. At this point, our problem with the narcissist is becoming increasingly prone to decline in production. In addition to reducing the production of citruses in our region in quantity, another reason the narcissist manufacturer suffered was that modern facilities could not be dryed, that lemon, orange, grapefruit could not be used in other areas in the local areas, and that the government did not encourage it as a pioneer is one of the main problems of the narcenist farmer. In particular, our country, which holds an important place in the world in the export of narcissistics, has to take serious and urgent solutions in this area, or indeed, the narcissist manufacturers, which make up an important part of our export of vegetables and fruit, will naturally withdraw from the field of citrus and shift to other areas. In this particular, I invite our Parliament, our concerned ministers, to be sensitive. I hope that the incentives will be given on time, especially one of the most important news the farmer's tradesman, the exporter, will give this news to the narcissist producers, farmers, and ministers of power. Over the years, this increase in prices has repeatedly brought the manufacturer back. So even though production has actually been increasingly low in production in the Mediterranean region and in Mersin Erdemli region, but unfortunately the products are still not being sold at enough prices. Given the fact that agricultural input costs are increasing today, it is clear that our citrus workers, citrus workers, are seriously victimized. Of course, transportation for exports to the region, especially Turkey and the foreign market, is one of the key stages, one of the stages. Thus, in the region, the creation of cold chains in this sector, the implementation of the greenhouse conversion project, the creation of large greenhouse fields, supported by the state, with large land in the 200-400m altitude of small land, the development of large greenhouse lands, the development of bow fruit and vegetablery, and the formation of integrated facilities are immediately expected by people in the region to lead the state. Of course, that's not the only problem with citrus workers. Especially in Mersin Erdemli -- Mersin, Tarsus, Silifke, Erdemli -- we hope that the earlier planned and still notable airway was quickly processed and that this could be done, especially in Turkey's other markets and the world market. We're waiting for orders from this airport, which has been postponed for years, to be carried out and done as quickly as possible by our Minister of Transport. Every time we bring up the problems of the Narcissian workers, when we bring up the problems of their employees, there have been promises made by the government, but I'm afraid that when you look at them over the years, there's been no serious increase in product values, I'll leave it to your conscience that the government is sincere to agricultural workers when you see the incident. Agricultural workers, especially citrus workers, certainly expect your power to give incentives on time, increase product prices, re-enhancing incentives at agricultural input costs, and help with agricultural inputs. I salute you all, your high council.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0076par0032	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Against the proposal, Müsh MP Sırı Sakık. Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0077par0035	Mr. President, I thank you, but I feel like I wanted a word in favor, and I don't know how I'm going to speak against this motion of research, so I'm also curious, what are my friends going to say about coming here and speaking against you? We don't, of course, act like other political parties, so the National Movement Party, yes, has made a motion to investigate a very important matter, and we will support it. What we're missing is that you didn't include the employees here, and I wish you'd included them, about the workers who came in and worked there.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0078par0036	We did, we did.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0077par0037	But we also have a home for you. Look, we don't bother with your attention, we support you when you do something good, but on that day, for example, we gave you a gene, not a motion to investigate a serious interior minister, and this Home Secretary is brutalizing this country for God's sake, not just us, but everyone, but since it's coming from BDP, you said: "What if you're going to tell us how we're being followed by BDP?" BDP will brush their teeth three times a day. When you say no, will you say no? We're not going to act like you. Now, look, today, I'm the Home Secretary's...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0078par0039	The right men must tell the truth.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0077par0040	Right. Now, look, this is what our Home Secretary has done from the day he arrived, and there's an explanation today. I wasn't really a speaker, so I came to my friends, and I asked them, and I got them. Now, what's he been saying since the first day he came in? In a situation in Silvan, the fire either comes out with fire or the bomb comes out with a rocket or it comes out with gas. As a result, it's burned, burned, and it doesn't mean anything to investigate the cause, to say why. Immediately after the PKK attack on Kızılay, he says that three of our citizens have been killed. I mean, I'm gonna count dozens of them together, but what's really important is what they're saying today. He's visiting the Veterans' Association, and he says: "Bedel has been paid heavily, and the price is too, we can't count, it's too much, it's not child's play." It's not a joke, it's not serious, it's nothing. Now, it's a Home Secretary who says that. Van's singing about the earthquake. There's dessert, too, says an earthquake victim there. So he asks, "What kind of dessert is it?" The dessert of Tulumba, the baklava, the nightingale's nest. Then he turns around and says in a tent, "You are staying in a tent like Saray." I say to him from here, "God bless you, too! And then, what the KCK turns to say about the prisoners, is that Büşra Haným is a professor of thousands of professors in Turkey. If all the professors in this country were arrested, you might wonder, but a professor from thousands of professors may have been arrested. One of the thousands could have been arrested, one of the thousands could have been arrested. Again, Idris Naim Şahin. The Kurdish problem: we live in a time when, unfortunately, from far away, from Çankaya, from Pointstone, from Etiks, from the throat, looking at the sea, looking at the grass, looking up at the sky, someone took the pen in their hand, probably sipping on the clock, writing down the fact that I have lived, the fact that I have seen, Hakkarii, Mush, and the truth in there is different. They call it the Kurdish problem. The problem, they say, is the problem. What's wrong? I don't understand. What's the matter? Now, this kind of trouble, and on that day, he came up here -- look, an indictment -- with the logic of the Russian prosecutors in the 1930s, he began to talk about the Kurdish problem of the military administration here in September 12th, with the logic of prosecutors, and he was scratching his back, and I watched his back for exactly 20 minutes. I don't know where he scratched, and I don't know what he was talking about, but he was lying from here. In our schools, in our political schools, Ocalan was declared a prophet, whereas we all know who the last prophet was. You were supposed to react, but you were applauding him, encouraging him. We don't need ministers like this if we're going to live in this country. Look, there's an explanation today: they called it the Kurdish problem last week. What's wrong? I mean, I'm looking, I can't find it. He says, and then he says, "Does a professor get arrested?" Does a woman get arrested? And then she answers and says: "If our class is studying politics, if our subject is training in riots, if someone continues to do it - Mrs. Büşra - Professor Ma'am - she says... she goes back to 80 years. He says: 'Do you know what it did in those years? He's been arrested. He says. Why was he arrested, he says. He says it's a communist, bringing a new term to the political field. He says he's a prisoner of this activity, that he's been in prison. Do you know who his relatives are? His brother-in-law also served in political cases. Now, aren't there people from the AKP who served in September 12th? Aren't there people in the CHP? Aren't there people in the MHP? Aren't there any BDP sleepers? I do. Now, from the past to the present, this man has been able to keep track of the interrogation, the trial, and he says, "Here you are, communism!, on that day he has made a new recipe for feudalism. So it's a non-responsive thing in political science. Now, my dear friends, if this is a man who's been united with the Prime Minister for years and an important actor in politics, Mr. Prime Minister, if he still can't recognize his colleagues within 20 years, we should all sit here and think about it, if he still doesn't do some serious research on this country, and he's leading the war lobby. Where are you taking this country? What do you want to do? Recently, from Mr. Prime Minister to all your units, specifically targeting the BDP, to attacking them, and the prime minister is the Home Secretary. We know exactly where the arrests came from, what the instructions were. When the Prime Minister makes an outside statement about the BDP, you all walk from here to the ranks of the BDP, 100 people. We went through this that day. Now, if you really want to solve problems, that language, that understanding, doesn't solve problems. We want to be partners with you, we want to be partners with Parliament. Here's an important parliamentary inquiry motion, and we'll support it. If he comes from the Republican People's Party, we'll be on the side of what we think is right, but unfortunately, there's no point in being so afraid, so scared, so scared, to be seen with us when such a correct assessment of the BDP has been made. This particular promise is for two opposition parties. I mean, I'm having a really hard time understanding what the hands that were laundering the Home Secretary were doing here that day. I mean, I'm pretty sure that if the MPs of the ruling party at this time had put their hands on their consciences... Because when I meet many friends, many cabinet members, it's a persecution in the name of God. For him, it is a call for us, for the sake of this country, for our peace of mind from here to the Prime Minister, the AKP, to remove this immediately. If he blames a person for this today (September 12th), he must be removed from office immediately, and he must resign, that's our thesis from day one. We say: These have been instructed, these have really been taught in schools, and these lessons have been given there, as well as in our politics, whatever courses are taught in your schools. So, I'm saying it's the shame of this country if it's in there, because of the criminal record that has been held from September 12th and so on, and I think it's time for this Home Secretary to be dismissed again. I wish you wouldn't answer.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0079par0057	I don't think it would be appropriate if we didn't answer...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0080par0058	Thank you, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0079par0059	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0080par0060	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0079par0061	The speaker gave a speech accusing both our Prime Minister and our Interior Minister, who spoke this week and our group. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0080par0062	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0079par0066	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. For one thing, our BDP MP friends need to know the very truth about what you're saying about the Gensor, the content of what you're saying about the interior ministry's attitude in the TK arrests. The interior minister told the esteemed members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and our great nation one by one what the CENTURY was. On one hand, the TK is a vicious murder ring that establishes its judgment, executes its own members, brutally slaughters its own, kills its own members, and sets it on top of the security guards of the Republic of Turkey. (EC PARTY) Now, you won't accept what this murder ring is... whoever the Minister is talking about, who's talking about human life, who's trying to eliminate the issue of unity and unity in this country, we're against it. He said, "You've jumped." I shouted, "Are you a member of the organization?" I said, "Are you a member of the organization?" But if you're not a member of the organization, if you try to object to the statement of a minister trying to express that there is a murder ring here, you'll show that you exist within that network.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0081par0068	8,000 detentions in your description?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0079par0069	Now, your president made a statement today, and I'm a member of the ACK. An MP friend of yours, you say your platform -- whatever you call your platform -- read from the Minister here -- said that I am with Kandil, I am with Kandil. But you still can't speak there, or you get instructions from Kandil.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0082par0070	Do you buy from Oslo?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0079par0071	For one thing, everyone has to know this very well: anyone who refers to the unity and unity of the state of the Republic of Turkey, the brotherhood of this nation, is the enemy of these MPs, this nation, and we need to know this well. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) KCK...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0083par0072	Why didn't you think of that in Oslo? Where were you when you were negotiating in Oslo?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0079par0073	Why don't you take these seats, you can take these lines, you know, a little bit...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0083par0075	I don't want to go in those lines, you go in, you negotiate.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0079par0076	Now, I see, dear friends, the Republican People's Party, over there...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0083par0077	Plus, you can't blame a party like that, one.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0084par0078	Congressmans, please don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0079par0079	...it's called the People's Party of the Republic, and everyone says, "Mr. President, someone's getting up from there, someone's getting up from here, Mr. President."
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0083par0080	You can't blame a party like that, they're respected lawmakers. But consider the bargain you made in Oslo.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0084par0081	Congressmans, don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0079par0082	In front of the Republican People's Party, I propose that they call it the Independent Republican People's Party, because it's unclear who's doing what.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0083par0083	Think about what you did in Habur, think about what you did in Oslo, talk about it later. Besides, they're a political party, you can't talk like that.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0079par0084	The presidents say one thing, the congressman's friends get up, they use a different statement, he says: "The statement has gone." There's nothing else.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0083par0085	Dear President, we say you're inconsistencies.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0079par0086	Look, dear friends, there's an important problem in Turkey.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0085par0087	You know how to change parties.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0079par0088	There is a situation in Turkey where our Kurdish citizens face TK persecution, PKK persecution. Our duty is to free these citizens from PKK persecution, TK persecution. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0086par0091	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0087par0092	Mr. President, the party has been taunting our group by expressing our president.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0086par0093	Please don't allow any more bullying, Mr. Kaplan. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0087par0096	Mr. President, of course, there are over 8,000 detained, over 4,000 prisoners from the NEP, including professors, party presidents, deputies, mayors, and even though there is not a single final court decision here, one minister says, "This is it, this is it. And his Group Deputy -- and his Party -- is coming out, looking at our faces, accusing us of taking orders from Kandil. We're not from Kandil, we're from the Party Charter, we're from the polls, we're not from the store. If you look at yourself in the mirror, you'll see how you describe yourself. From a center across the ocean called Pennsylvania, in the lap of the FBI and the CIA...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0088par0098	You're in a dream world, in a dream world!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0089par0099	Easy, easy!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0087par0100	...from here, you're taking instructions from the Kandil. He can't say. You'll know that once in a while. Whose lap is it, Master Hodja? FBI, CIA, Obama. Obama! Look, you're so attached to the belly. Why? You're in charge of the presidency. You're the Prime Minister. Mashallah, you have a mountain minister.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0090par0102	Take it easy! Take it easy!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0087par0103	Shut up! You have to interfere with everything!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0090par0104	Don't do that with your hand!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0087par0105	You don't have any other business here! Shut up!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0091par0106	Mr. Kaplan, please address the General Assembly, do not talk to each other. Please...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0087par0107	Mr. President, please alert the bullying head.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0091par0108	Please, please...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0092par0109	Then we'll ask you whose lap you're sitting on!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0087par0110	Now, this taunting head has nothing else to do, sitting here, like those who sit here with their beaks full of filth, every criminal opposition party who comes here has a point.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0092par0111	You'll behave yourself!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0093par0112	Mr. President, step in...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0094par0113	Please, please... please take your place.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0093par0114	Do your duty.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0094par0115	I'm doing my job.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0095par0116	Now, look, there's this thing called court, there's a decision in the legal state, there's this institution called a prosecutor, there's this institution called a judge, there's no trial, there's no trial, and I told your minister here about Professor Büşra Ersanlı: if you can't prove what you're saying, then resign, and if you can prove it, I'll resign. No, if you can't do that, you're a farmer. You're a mufter, you're still a mufter, because you can't produce a document. Now, you get up here talking about murders. You've been dropping bombs for days. You killed 190 kids with gas bombs and flares. So far, the number of unsolved murders in your reign has exceeded 600. We face the real murder ring and the power within it. We face injustice and dictatorship. We will, of course, question you in the court of law, and we will make it very difficult for you. You'll know that and we'll...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0094par0119	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0095par0120	...we will do it of our own free will here, of our own free will.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0096par0121	And you cannot frustrate Us in any way.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0094par0122	Mr. Kaplan, thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0095par0123	We're talking. Shut up!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0094par0124	Mr. Kaplan, please take your seat.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0097par0125	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0098par0126	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0097par0127	If you don't like me and my group while speaking, Mr. Speaker Elitaş has picked on another party. I want words according to 69.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0098par0128	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0099par0129	I'm all ears.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0098par0130	If you'll excuse me, in an unethical speech, the speaker has just expressed our Prime Minister, the EC PARTY Group, and the government, who are you in the arms of other than discipline. I want to make that clear.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0100par0131	Who are you, Hodja?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0098par0132	I'm a teacher's lover.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0101par0133	Mr. Kaplan, please, you're very welcome. You said you'd say it. Please take your seats.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0100par0134	Tell me who you're speaking for.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0101par0135	Please take your seats. Please... You said what you had to say. Now, in return, the MPs will say whatever they have to say. Please, I'd appreciate it if you'd say your words in silence. Say what you want to say in a calm and calm manner.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0102par0137	Mr. President, I want to talk to you about teasing.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0101par0138	Mr. Erdoğdu, come in, I promise you two minutes, and then Mr. Elistash. Mr. Erdoğdu, come in.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0103par0142	Mr. President, members of the Justice and Development Party Deputy Director just told me to take these positions. First of all, as Republican People's Party MP, I've had the greatest honor of my life, the greatest pride of my life. I'm not gonna learn where I'm gonna be from you. I'm so happy and proud where I am. Secondly, you insult me where you speak. This is a political party, and we have to tell this nation about your talks with the people you insulted in Oslo. We didn't make these calls, you did. Did we do it? You did it. Did we do what was done in Habur? You did it. So you have to be balanced. You run a country. You can't run a country with such zigzags. Can't you see what the streets have become? Aren't we going to say that?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0104par0144	Tell your vice president who supports Habur.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0103par0145	Thank you very much, sir, thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0105par0147	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'd really like to ask you not to pick on me again.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0106par0151	Mr. President, step in. Or we'll have to ask for a pick-me-up.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0105par0152	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0107par0154	I'm glad the congressman is sitting over there; I'm glad he doesn't live on our side. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, dear lawmakers, we need to understand this: we made a constitutional amendment last year. 58 per cent of this nation said yes to the constitutional amendment. He said yes, even though they said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0108par0157	Hosni Mubarak also received 86 per cent of the vote!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0109par0158	Kenan said to the Universe 90 percent yes!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0107par0159	And by the power of this nation, the Justice and Development Party received 50% of the vote in the June 12th election. From whom do you receive instructions now, he says. Oh, we like Master Hodja, we respect him. Whoever is serving the spirituality of this nation, who is dealing with the unity and unity of this nation, who is on the right path, we respect all of them, and we love that everyone respects it.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0109par0162	If he loves his country, let him come here. From America to his homeland, if he loves it very much.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0107par0163	But just so you know, we don't take orders from anyone. We don't take orders from anyone but the great Turkish nation. The Turkish people told us in the June 12th elections. Go, manage Turkey for me. He said. We're doing that mission. I don't know where you got your instructions, who's sitting on your lap.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0110par0164	Does it look good on you? Who's sitting on whose lap? What kind of language are you talking about?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0107par0165	But we, according to the direction we received from this nation, are trying to manage this country according to what he says, the path he shows, the message he sends.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0110par0166	Does it suit a group of vice presidents?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0107par0167	Sit the fuck down!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0110par0168	What do you mean, sit down!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0107par0169	Sit down! Sit down!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0111par0170	Please don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0110par0171	You're so used to it! What does that mean?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0111par0172	You address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0112par0173	What a group of vice presidents, what a spokesman for this party!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0111par0175	Dear Elitaş, please. Who is your president? Who's your spokesman? You can't tell what happened. If there's anyone here who needs to talk, it's your group vice president. Don't talk to each other. Mr. Elitaş, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0113par0178	Look, the police have two tasks. One is law enforcement, one is judicial duty. The law enforcement mission is a security mission. He can perform other tasks according to the instructions given by the prosecutors. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It is wrong for prosecutors to identify an issue of independent judiciary with the Interior Minister, with the government. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0114par0183	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0115par0186	Mr. President, I'd like word from the teaser.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0114par0187	I didn't understand what he said to you, Mr. Metiner.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0115par0189	He made an attempt on my own.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0114par0190	No, I don't know what he said to you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0115par0191	He made an attempt on my own.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0116par0192	But it turns me on, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0117par0193	Like a street bully!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0116par0194	Mr. President, are you the chief of staff? He's picking on everybody. Who's more picky than him? If anyone's picking on me more than he is, let's give him the head! He's their most abusive orator. If there is, let's switch to another taunting mission.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0118par0195	You won't be afraid of words! You won't be afraid, you won't say anything!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0117par0196	You only said the right thing, and you said it in the days of ignorance!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0118par0197	(Muhammad), ignore him. You are still ignorant.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0117par0198	It's obvious who's in the age of ignorance!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0119par0199	Mr. President said we acted differently in the Constitutional studies, that the TK prisoners were members of the organization. I'd like to make a statement about that.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0120par0200	Here, don't give me any more trouble.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0121par0201	Mr. President, what did I get to say?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0120par0202	Wait a minute... wait a minute...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0122par0204	Mr. President, dear friends, especially the AKP Group Vice Presidents, consider all MPs to be under orders. You can't talk! No group of lawmakers talks about the group... or the group's vice presidents, but there's no such thing as the congressman can't. This is what you have, this totalitarian regime.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0123par0205	That's where the speech is!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0122par0206	Look, you go back and forth and say, "KCK prisoners, I don't know, Kandil, illegal organization..." KCK prisoners are just as legitimate as you are legitimate.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0123par0208	Is the TK legit?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0122par0209	I'll tell you, you're the MP, he's the congressman; our five nationals and our members are in there because of him. The people elected the mayors, and you brought them in on the TK operation. Now the people want to see their elected deputies in Parliament, but you say no! The public wants to see their elected mayors on duty, and you're operating at night!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0123par0210	If he cooperates with the terrorist organization, if he's funding the terrorist organization, he'll be rewarded.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0122par0211	And then you turn around, it's... you turned the country into a police state. In fact, don't call it a constitutional amendment, you don't have the heart. Look, you came to us for the Constitutional Amendment in 2010, and we sat down, and we talked, and five of our friends came here, voted...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0123par0213	He voted green, green.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0122par0214	...but your heart wasn't enough to move with us. What happened? Well, you really didn't have the heart.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0124par0215	We have enough heart for anything. We've got a heart like a barbecue.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0122par0216	Don't make me talk.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0124par0217	We've got a heart like a barbecue. The secret is, we have a heart like a barbecue.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0125par0218	Please...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0122par0219	Look, if you had a heart like a barbecue...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0125par0220	Mr. Sakek, please address the General Assembly, do not talk to each other.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0122par0221	We came here that day, we voted together, but your group of vice presidents came and voted against us. Now, I'm the living witness here that day; five of us voted; your friends, you couldn't control them, and then you turned and you were afraid of us.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0126par0222	What color did you vote?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0122par0223	How?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0126par0224	What color did you vote?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0122par0225	We?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0127par0227	Thank you, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0122par0228	We, look, we don't do anything we can't stand behind.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0127par0229	The matter is clear, Mr. Sakik, please take your seat.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0128par0230	Secret Sakık, how many articles were in the Constitution package?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0122par0231	Look, how did we vote? We voted the same way we talked to you...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0127par0232	But please, Mr. Sakik, please take your seat.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0122par0233	If any of you voted differently, you're a jerk and a jerk, and whoever voted differently, you're a jerk.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0129par0234	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0127par0235	Mr. Metiner, please, two minutes. Don't let any more taunts get in the way.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0129par0238	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers spoke as we were speaking here yesterday, and the Deputy Director of the Group of the BDP also said that we were speaking out of context here yesterday, but Mr. Sakk has made some accusations about our Home Secretary, who is not relevant to the topic today.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0130par0239	None of your business!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0129par0240	Now, valued lawmakers have accused our party, our Prime Minister, of being in the arms of others, which is not a very ethical accusation.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0130par0242	You're his lawyer!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0129par0243	If we're going to argue about being in other people's laps, he told us how other countries used it against Turkey when Ocalan was captured in 1999.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0131par0244	What mission were you on then? Weren't you then the Vice President of CIDEP?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0129par0245	If you have anything to say, I'll argue with you on every platform -- all I need is my heart, my knowledge. Just sit there!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0132par0246	Don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0129par0247	He was talking about how other countries used them against Turkey.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0133par0248	Then he's the Vice President of the CIDEP. That's the way he talks if he's not embarrassed!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0129par0249	Today, we ask: What countries are today in the lap of those who have initiated terrorist acts when the process of democratisation has begun against Turkey? That's what we're asking for. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Deputy Director of the Group said something yesterday that you consider the Firat Anlı that you served with a terrorist? No, I know Firat Anlı, I don't consider him a terrorist. But I'm saying that someone has interfered with our social peace and democratization by doing politics over terrorism.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0133par0252	That's how you talk, that's how the President of the Group talks, and the Home Secretary speaks differently! Three people are talking about something else!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0129par0253	One last thing. There's an assassin coming out of the political academy. Mehmet Metiner is a student of a political academy assigned to assassinate him.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0133par0254	Oh, come on, who'd stoop to you! You became a congressman with this story. You were with that story, Congressman.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0129par0255	Yes, you're doing the politics of terrorism. If your political academy has been converted into a training of terror, you'll have to pay for it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0134par0259	Thank you, Mr. Metiner.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0135par0260	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, between Elitaş and the members of our group...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0134par0261	Wait a minute, Congressman, I can't hear you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0135par0262	Mr. President, this has been an argument between Mr. Elitaş and the members of our group. Mr. Elitas tells us which way members should sit, and he even gives instructions instead of sitting. There is an insult to the corporate personality of our group. I'd like to speak as Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0134par0263	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0136par0264	Let's add the KCK to the statement at the group meeting. Didn't you say, didn't you talk about it? Didn't you speak at your own group meeting? Let's add the KCK to the statement.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0135par0265	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, first of all, the parable of Mr. Elitas is true, and this nation voted 58 per cent in the referendum. Let's just say this is where the opposition parties are. You're right. You're getting more votes. That's true, too. It's all true. But based on that logic, the Constitution of September 12th took 92 percent, yes. That logic is not a very right logic. Look, I'll tell you the story of the tree and the pumpkin. A gourd seed fell into the bottom of a huge synth tree. A month or two later, when the sun came up, when the rain rained, the gourd grew fast and suddenly reached the height of that tree. How many years are you going to make fun of a tree that's started? I've been here for a month or two, and I've passed you, see? And he smiled, and said: Behold, autumn is coming near, and I will see thee, when it shall come to fall. And when the winter came, that great gourd stood on the ground, standing firm. [[Applause from CHP rows]] There was a Homeland Party here with 300 MPs, if you remember. There's no party like this now. You won't be staying either, Mr. Elistash, but that big tree will be here, that big tree is here!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0137par0271	Tell me how many times you've been in power.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0135par0272	Of course, the winner of the election is right to brag. We celebrate... celebrate... celebrate... but don't worry, the big tree is standing tall, and when the pumpkin sees the frost, I say he'll keep his head down when he sees the winter. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0138par0275	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0139par0276	Mr. President, Mr. Group Vice President has confused the Constitution of September 12th with the Constitution of the People's Constitution of September 12, 2010. The September 12th coup constitution, as in the 1946 elections, was held in the open vote, the secret booking process, but the public constitution of September 12th was made in the form of a secret vote, an open manuscript. For your information.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0138par0278	Thank you. In favor of the proposal, Adana MP Umit Özgümüm. Here you go, Mr. Ozgimi.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0140par0285	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you. Before I started my speech, I had a word with Mr. Metiner. He went out. I'm not in the habit of talking behind anybody's back, but let me tell you while I'm at it.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0141par0287	Tell me, tell me...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0140par0288	Don't let God put anyone in his place.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0141par0290	Amen, amen...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0140par0291	Look, he didn't understand democracy to his own Prime Minister, to his own president, to his own president, to his own president. He can't bring democracy to this country.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0141par0292	Do you know where he was then? He was the vice president of our party at the time...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0140par0293	...when their talks are caught on tape, then they come back later, doing flips, curtsies, bows, neck cracks -- political literature -- to be a Shark dancer...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0142par0294	Mr. President, criticism can't be so rude.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0140par0295	I won't learn manners from you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0142par0296	Criticize me, but it wouldn't be so rude. Roll over, snap the neck... let him look in the mirror...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0140par0297	That's what it's called in political literature.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0142par0299	He may be critical, but that's not rude.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0140par0300	If you want, go back and see if he's broken a neck.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0142par0301	It wouldn't be rude. Do your criticism, but break your neck... look in the mirror...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0143par0302	Mr. Ozgimi, please choose your words better.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0140par0303	It's in the press, and you look back, and you see if it's broken, and you see if it's bent.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0143par0304	Please, choose your words better.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0140par0305	If I were Mr. Metiner, I'd be a little embarrassed, and I wouldn't come in here and sit in the front and start yelling at everyone, I'd sit behind that pole in the back, behind the back.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0144par0306	Mr. President, criticism is right, but insults are not right.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0143par0307	Mr. Özsümiş, come in, please come in.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0140par0308	Dear friends, Turkey has many problems.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0143par0310	Mr. Ozgimi, come in, please...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0140par0311	He'll find out from the records anyway. He gets it from the records, he comes here, he answers, if he's got the heart. I stand by what I said. Dear friends, Turkey has many problems, many unresolved problems, but in the last decade, there have been some problems that have been particularly increasing, chronicising and increasingly difficult to solve. Basically two: whether there's an orange issue here, whether it's a health issue here, whether it's a citrus, whether it's a citrus, whether it's a foreign relationship, whether it's a conversation, whether it's an unresolved, unresolved war situation in the southeast, and one of them is an issue that has been increasingly difficult to solve in the past decade.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0145par0313	We're not fighting wars in the southeast, we're fighting terrorism.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0140par0314	Cari continues to be a problem for Turkey, which is open. Dear friends, the growing, growing current current current current account deficit is based on Turkey's growing foreign trade deficit, which is increasingly unresolved by economic policies that were wronged during the AKP ruling period. Unfortunately, the exchange deficit from the foreign trade deficit can't be closed with other revenues, so the current is getting more and more dangerous. During the AKP ruling period, state ministers in constant foreign trade -- doing so earlier -- sat down once a month in a particular city of Turkey, explaining export numbers, but import numbers were constantly hidden. We were listening to the Prime Minister during the election. The Prime Minister was saying that when we arrived, in 2002, the export of Turkey was $36 billion. What did we put in, praise be to God? 77 billion dollars. Where are we? $113 billion. I'll tell you that when you came to power, it was $51 billion in imports. What did you put on it, praise be to God? $134 billion. As of the end of 2011, we came to 185 billion dollars. Naturally, this exchange deficit from the foreign trade deficit can't be closed, so it's getting bigger and bigger. Look, foreign trade has an international indicator that's important in import-export numbers. If exports meet imports at less than 70 per cent, it should attract attention, but if it goes below 60 per cent, it's now a red alert. According to the late September figures released yesterday, our current deficit is going up by 100 per cent, according to the same period last year. It's about $70 billion now, and it's going to be over 80 billion by the end of the year. As you know, last year's total was 48 billion dollars. Now, the current deficit is in economic danger. One: a cari is like an open drug. If you can't borrow money from international agencies during the time you're open, then you'll start withdrawing hot money. Hot currency affects the decline of exchange prices. When foreign currency prices drop and Turkish liras are valued, you continue to give the current price. Second: Cari is unsustainable. If Turkey hadn't had the 2007 crisis and the global crisis again, we would have seen how Turkey would have hit the wall like it did in 2001. But recently, because of the recent global financial difficulties, the global crisis has covered Turkey's internal crisis, and without warning, about 30 per cent of Turkish money has been reduced. Otherwise, it can't be sustained any other way. Of course, there's also the political danger, which is that, again, when you can't borrow from international agencies, you borrow from international loan sharks with very high interest, and this time you become dependent on them. When you become so dependent on the obvious, you begin to take orders from outside and go under political yoke. As a matter of fact, right now, Turkey in the AKP's power is completely under the yoke of the West and the United States, and is now taking political orders. Until just three months ago, the Turkish Republic of Turkey, which had run a zero-problem policy with its neighbours, has now become warring with all its neighbours, including Syria, where they go home to eat their tea, drink their tea, and invite their daughter to their wedding.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0146par0318	He burned our flag, shouldn't we fight?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0140par0319	Look very carefully at who's burning the flag. Perhaps you'll understand what a provocative act it is to burn those flags.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0146par0320	Why? What are you going to do?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0140par0321	In those countries, the United States sends agents there long before they do what you call the spring riots. He is doing what he did in Ukraine in Georgia today in Syria. Syria is fine with itself. Read the facts correctly.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0147par0322	It's always conspiracy theory.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0140par0323	Dear friends, it takes production and exports to resolve the current deficit. Production and export or export production. For him, there's a theory of comparative advantages in economics. One of the things that Turkey is superior to is agriculture, and because it concerns my region, the issue of the narcissist today is one of our important, advantageous issues. The topic of the narcissist is held in approximately 120,000 hectares in Turkey, and is also related to about 30,000 farm families. It's a direct concern. It also reveals how important it is in Turkey, given its input provider, its families, its outputs, its businesses. We're having problems producing citrus because the input costs are too high. For him, the Republican People's Party was in the election, so he said he'd give the farmer the diesel at $1.50. Like Spain, which competes with production costs today, farmers who do not use the same input costs as countries like Greece cannot compete in production. For him, input costs need to be reduced, product planning. Today Turkey harvests citrus within a month or two, but rival countries split into six months. For him, production planning should be done by the government, and the gardening arrangements should be done accordingly. Other than that, marketing should be supported, otherwise the narcissist manufacturers, the narcissist producers of this wide range, have no chance of competing. If you're looking for resources, there's resources. Instead of sending that $300 million into Libya instead of sending that $300 million to Libya instead of sending it to your own narcist manufacturer, your own farmer, they might be able to compete in a global competition environment. To do all this now, we must first have our land and claim our land. But as long as the business was open during the AKP's rule, we sold our banks, our companies, our factories, now we're selling our land, and we're bragging about it. We're not bragging, you're bragging. Now, according to the official figures of the state, the amount of land sold to foreigners today by 2011 is 5,600 acres in Antalya, 5,600 square metres in Muğla, 5,500 acres in Ankara, 4,500 acres in Hatay - square meters in Hatay - 3,400,000 square metres in Aydın, 3,300 square meters in Adana. Of course, there are other areas besides that. We'll talk about them some other time. 373,000 acres in Tucson, and in Çorum, and in Niğde, almost...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0148par0331	Please complete your promise.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0140par0332	We'll see why strangers buy land around here, if there's a mine in the future, we'll all see it together. First, we must take care of our land. Now, we have a minister -- he was just here -- who is known among the people as Mehmet of England, or as Mehmet of Sör Mehmet. Why the British Mehmet? Because before, before coming here, we have a minister who swore allegiance to the Queen to get a passport in England, who swore honor, honor, and honor to defend the interests of England, and then came to protect the interests of the Republic of Turkey once upon a time on this stand where I am standing. Because of his position, he cannot protect the interests of both Turkey and England due to his decisions. As a result, one of them must eat the oath of honor and honor. He says: "I've never seen anyone come out of the country with their house on their backs at the airport. " So are we going to laugh about this now, is that a joke? Is it a joke in English culture? Yes, it's true, no one can take our land and carry it on its back, but there's one concept that is more important than oil in the coming process that food supply security...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0148par0334	Thank you, Mr. Ozgim.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0140par0335	Many countries in the world are currently running out of oil trying to buy land from countries like us. We're selling our children's futures.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0148par0337	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0140par0338	For that, I declare that we will vote positively for this motion. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0148par0341	Mr. Ozgimi, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Metiner.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0149par0345	Thank you, Mr. President. The ancients say, "It's the same statement as a man."
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0150par0347	That's right.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0149par0348	Don't let God put anyone in his place. He says, Mr. Congressman. He'll have to have other options to replace me.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0151par0349	You mean like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like,
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0149par0350	Sharq dancing, flippin'...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0152par0351	Please, Mr. Lawmakers... please...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0149par0352	...pulling, but lacks discipline...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0153par0353	To make amends like bowing to the Prime Minister's wife? Go sit in the back!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0152par0354	Please, Ozgimý...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0153par0355	Aren't you blushing?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0154par0356	Mr. President, please step in.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0152par0357	Please, Mr. Ozgimi. Please speak properly.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0155par0358	Mr. President, he's making mouthfuls of insults.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0156par0359	He's going to...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0152par0360	Here you go, Mr. Metiner.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0156par0361	I'd like to take these moments back from you, please.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0152par0362	You guys go ahead.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0156par0363	I can give you back all your promises more than I can, but I'm not going to do it because I can't. Mehmet Metiner has never broken a neck in front of anyone, especially the power centers. This cruel, ceberut, BAASian, has resisted the regime like lions, democracy for everyone, freedom for everyone. My words about the Prime Minister are ten years old. I just apologized for a word I believed to be inappropriate.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0157par0365	Are you done with your sentence?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0156par0366	It is you who take for yourselves an excuse for what is said here, and you accuse a person of being sorry. Shame on you! So, for our work and actions here, please don't ever apologize to any of us again for my words and actions, and please don't say that apologizing is a virtue. [[Noises from CHP rows]] A bit of shame... he says, "It's what he owes his parliamentary position." I'm not the kind of person who owes a legislature to nothing. After I was elected MP, Mr. Elitaş, I went to his son's wedding here in Kayseri, and I've known Mr. Emine Erdogan for years, and I leaned into his ear only because he wanted to say something to me during a crowded ceremony.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0158par0370	Dear Metiner...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0156par0371	I condemn a mindset that turns a bow to obey a lady, and a brothership of Baas.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0158par0373	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0156par0374	I also condemn and condemn your stand against the Syrian regime, against the Baas regime!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0158par0376	Dear Metiner, thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0159par0377	Mr. President, we're negotiating a motion from our group. This has moved on to a lot of other places. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a statement from my position for 60.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0158par0378	Here you go, Mr. Şandir.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0159par0379	Thank you, sir. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers are being unfair to the narcissist manufacturer, as far as I'm concerned, with the talks on the research motion we've given with very good intentions. See, it's a matter of the producer of citrus, the merchant, the exporter, the supplier, the mover, the mover, the worker, the pesticides and the fertilizer dealers, their families, their children, probably 10 million people of this community. I regret to inform you that people who have expressed their views here on the proposal to discuss the problems of the producers of the narcissist, ignore the problems of the producers of the narcissistics, and take other matters into their own hands. Everyone please come to the point and talk about the problems of the citrus manufacturers. I do, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0160par0382	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Against the proposal, Antalya MP Hussein Samani... Here you go, Mr. Samani.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0161par0389	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the nationalist Action Party group proposal. I salute you all. Today we're talking about the agricultural sector, which is perceived as a strategic sector around the world. All mankind's food needs are being met with products produced in this sector. If mankind had used all the resources he had today, if he had mobilized, his technological resources would not have been able to produce a drop of milk, a tomato, and an orange. So we need to be more sensitive when we talk about this sector. We have to evaluate the sector with data. When we say narensian, citrus, as you know, we think of fruits such as oranges, lemons, tangerines, grapefruits, and golden balls. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers today are 1 billion 858 million 376,000 tons of fruits and vegetables in the world. Again, the production of citrus is 124 million 414 thousand tons. So in total, the production of vegetables and fruit, the production of citrus takes a large share of about 6.9%. Turkey's production of citrus has increased to 2,500,000 tonnes in 2002, while today it has increased to 3 million 513,000 tonnes. Our country's agricultural exports in 2002 increased from $4 billion to $12.7 billion today, so it increased by about three times. In 2002, the export of vegetables and fruit was $545 million, while today it rose to $2 billion, 174 million.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0162par0394	Are there reeksports in this, reeksports?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0161par0395	Turkey exports vegetables and fruits to ninety-six countries today.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0162par0396	Tell them you're with the Reeksports, it'll be healthier.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0161par0397	This is just the amount of export in the area of vegetables and fruit. We're not talking about a total export of agricultural products. Again, as for the narciatrist export, over the years, we could only export the amount of citrus that we produced 811,000 tons in 2002, and we could get about 257 million dollars in exchange for a foreign currency entry. In 2003, we exported 658 thousand tons of citrus, and we made $268,947 grand in revenues. In 2010, we increased our exports to 1.219,000 tons. In contrast, our country has acquired export revenues of $848 million. After Spain and South Africa, our country is ranked third in the world today. No doubt these developments have been the result of a number of steps taken in the agricultural sector over the course of time. As you know, our position in agriculture today has risen to the 7th place in the world. In 2002, the GDP, which was $36.1 billion, increased by more than two floors in 2010 to 78.8 billion euros. The sector continues its rise in 2011 with an increase of 4.1 per cent. We are exporting to 177 countries today with our agricultural sector, which meets the needs of 70 million people and 30 million tourists. In this process, our government has implemented a total of fifty-two agricultural support practices to the agricultural sector. Support for the sector from 2003-2010 was $36.6 billion, while support for 2011 was $6.5 billion. In 2002, our farmers were given $1.8 billion in support, while we increased it by 3 times to 6 billion dollars in 2011. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important developments in this period is that, without a doubt, the application of agricultural insurance that protects the farmer's labor against natural disasters has begun, which our farmers are taking back half of the policy value under agricultural insurance. In 2002, only $529m was the amount of loans from the Agriculture Bank and its agricultural loan co-ops. During this period, this amount was increased by 30 times; in 2010, it was used in addition to $16.1 billion euros, while in 2002 it was used in addition to 550,000 people. We can now say that the amount of loan given to the farmer in 2011 increased to 20.5 billion TL. In addition, one of the most important things we need to pay attention to in this period is that in 2002, agricultural interest rates were 59 per cent, while in 2002 they were down to 5 per cent. There was a mention in the proposal earlier that the manufacturers were dispossessed. Is it the use of loans to manufacturers at 59 per cent, leaving them unclaimed, or lowering agricultural loans to 5 per cent, leaving the manufacturer unclaimed and alone? Of course, our best manufacturers will appreciate that. In this process, a number of supports are added to the production of citrus. Most important of all, it's the support that attracts the most attention, or rather, what needs to be appreciated, especially for manufacturers who are struggling biologically. Today, the farmer producing biological warfare is given an additional $20 per pot of support. Again, if our farmer uses consultants, like an agricultural engineer, uses consultants like technicians in their garden, they are supported by the use of $500 per farmer as a consultant. If our producers produce within the framework of good agricultural practices, it is also given an additional $20 per crown. So, in a sense, I'd like to say that if they adopted a production model that was kept and controlled from seed phase to seed phase until they came to the table, it was also supported in addition to that. Our new planters are supported by 250 euro per cent per year as part of the certified seedling. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have once again taken my attention to one thing in this whole process: particularly the struggle with drug residue and new practices in this regard. Yes, we think we should go further on this subject all the time, but we want to underline something, and I want to give you an example: Anthalya, my science in April 2002, and an active remnant of methamidophos in the peppers in Kumluca district of Antalya. The ministry at the time rejected it, and then spread it to time, even though it had to be addressed immediately, and our producers in Antalya were severely damaged. Because at the time, the support was given to people who were using more agricultural drugs, not biological struggles, not controlled manufacturers, and remember that at the time, our farmers were buying 20 percent of the agricultural medicine they were using for bills.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0163par0409	Please complete your statement.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0161par0410	Hence, more agricultural medicine was encouraged in this sense. At the point where we're here today, with good agricultural practices, with the barcode system in agricultural medicines, with the manufacturer's logbooks, by employing 7,500 agricultural engineers and veterinarians throughout our country, by highlighting monitoring to the level of the developed countries around the world today, the amount of agricultural drug remains have been reduced to those levels. But I want to say from here that we're making a huge improvement compared to 2002. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0163par0413	Thank you, Mr. Samani.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0164par0414	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0163par0415	Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0164par0416	Mr. President, according to 60, I would like to correct and contribute to a mistake.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0163par0417	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0164par0418	Mr. President, thank you very much. Of course, dear friends, the High Council, numbers mean a lot of things, but not everything. When we read the numbers correctly, we do it right. See, with the prima system that began in Turkey in the 2000s, many of our agricultural products are being registered. Before that, many of our agricultural products were not registered in a healthy fashion. Therefore, we must consider this information as we compare agricultural numbers over the years. If we don't consider it, I'd like to share something with you under very normal circumstances. Why did we have to import today when it was one of the seven self-contained agricultural countries in the world some time ago, even though there was so much production going on? Therefore, it is useful to perceive figures that appear to be increasing production as being registered. In addition, the import of agricultural products should also consider reeksport. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0165par0424	Thank you, Mr. Tallie. I'd like you to vote...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0166par0428	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0165par0429	You want roll call... Here you go. Mr. Tünce, Mr. Köse, Mr. Altay, Canalioğlu, Mr. Ozcan... Okay, you got it. Congressmans, I'll give you three minutes to roll call.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0167par0435	Mr. President, have you written your friends?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0168par0436	Do you have 20 people?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0167par0437	Mr. President, did you write down the names?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0169par0438	Mr. Altay, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Gürkan...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0167par0439	Mr. President, is roll call in yet?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0170par0440	It's started, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0171par0441	You didn't count the names, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0170par0442	We counted the names, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0171par0443	No, you didn't.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0172par0444	You didn't count, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0170par0445	We counted the names, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0173par0446	Same names...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0174par0447	Same names? Maybe they're not here, maybe they've changed.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0173par0448	They're here, sentry till morning.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0174par0449	We're on duty till morning.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0175par0450	May I have the list of names, Mr. President? Because those friends shouldn't go in.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0176par0451	They're not coming in, sir. They're not coming in. We're warning them.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0175par0452	You should see his friends...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0176par0453	Okay, it's written.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0177par0454	Where do you spell it? We didn't hear it.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0175par0455	If you could read these guys, see if they're here.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0176par0456	There's friends...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0175par0457	Let's read it, sir. Let the Clerk read it, see if they're here.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0176par0458	Let them read...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0178par0459	Are the friends here? Read their names, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0176par0460	Friends are here.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0179par0461	Okay, read it. If there's no one, he can take it for him. Read the Civil Charter again, Elitaş.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0176par0463	There's enough for a meeting. I submit to your votes the proposal of the National Party for Action: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and then submit to your votes.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0180par0469	Mr. President, I'd like to make a brief statement based on Article 60.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0176par0470	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0180par0473	Mr. President, what you just did is completely against the Civil Code. Either you need to get a paper signed by 20 lawmakers, or you need to confirm whether the MPs standing up are there one by one, in connection with the roll call request. But now I see the roll call sheet, which you processed with an anonymous roll of roll call. Although you should submit the signed paper of our friend, or 20 MPs, to the information of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly, unfortunately, you violated it, despite a clear verdict in the third joke, although Article 57 of the Civil Code states an open sentence. See, during the interviews, 20 MPs may want to be put to a vote by standing up or making a motion. You have made it seem as though there were motions, even though there were no motions. Plus, even if the motion is submitted, you'll have to check to see if the MPs in the motion are here. Please, I'd like to invite the Presidential Court to implement the Civil Code because your applications are completely against the Civil Code. If the Presidential Court violates the Civil Code, you give our fellow MPs here an opportunity to violate it.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0181par0475	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0182par0476	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. We act in accordance with the Civil Code, as we have done in all previous roll call requests.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0183par0478	Mr. President, you're following an example that has never existed.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0182par0479	When our 20 congressmen stand up, we write their names fast.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0183par0480	Who wrote it?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0182par0481	I didn't say it one by one, it's my fault. From now on, I'll say it one by one, please.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0184par0482	It needs to be said one by one.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0185par0483	Mr. President, we were standing with 20 MPs. There are now more than 20 MPs in our group.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0182par0484	Mr. Slim, that's it, that's it.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0185par0485	Mr. President, one more thing.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0182par0486	Yeah...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0185par0487	Of course, it's the opposition's right to ask for roll call.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0186par0488	We don't give a shit about you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0185par0489	The ruling MPs will sit here instead of backstage.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0187par0490	And you will stand up, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0185par0491	But I apologize to the AKP, and I wish you well. A congressman just said he was gonna make it to roll call, but he got stuck in a spinning door, so I thought he'd get over it.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0188par0492	A poor thought and a poor explanation.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0189par0493	We're just saying get well soon.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0188par0494	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0189par0495	Mr. Elitaş, I understand, thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0188par0496	But now these 20 congressmen of ours have to be admitted to roll call. How are you going to do that?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0189par0497	No, sir, we'll put them in the report and we'll check it out here, don't worry.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0188par0498	But I kept the paper. I kept the paper and...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0189par0499	We'll get the paper here, sir. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and processed, and then I shall submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the Council of Counsellors, in accordance with Article 19 of the Council of Ministers, the following proposal of our group was submitted to the approval of the General Assembly at the meeting of 1711.2011 (now). On 14 November 2011, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was proposed to be read in a joint session Thursday (November 2011), where the Parliamentary Research Council (24th) was presented in front of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly (24th). In favor of the proposal, MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0190par0515	Mr. President, I salute the esteemed MPs, the High Assembly, and the eight arrested MPs. It is known to all of you that the province of Kopeeli is suffering from environmental difficulties caused by rapid industrialization and has a negative impact on human life. The annual population growth of this city, with a population of about 1.5 million, is about twice the average for Turkey. Its contribution to national income is second to a figure such as 17 per cent after Istanbul. It is the centre of Turkey's industry. It is one of the richest provinces in Turkey. However, unemployment and the number of poor people are also a contradiction with Turkey's averages. About 127 of the first 500 major businesses in Turkey are in this province. There are 2,200 industrial companies, 13 organised industrial areas, 3 techno parks, 45 ports and piers in the Bigeli Industrial Chamber. It is remarkable that the industrialization of the Babylonians is particularly starting in the northwestern region. About 600 times the population of the Gebze region, which is called the northwest region. Nine of the 13 organised industrial regions are in this district with two techno parks. The area of Gebze, which quickly became a settlement with rapidly distorted urbanization, was divided into four counties by your previous government in 2008, while the university was founded and expected to integrate with public and industry while waiting for it to be the site of the solution to problems. Now, I'm going to tell you about Dilova in these four counties. It's something that you've been following a lot of national media over the past week: white dust falls on Dilovasi, white dust and chemical dust on Hereke. Unfortunately, when it's called Dilova, Turkey is now referred to as the cancer plain. Examples of white dust falling on this Dilovasi are received by the County Environment Directorate and reported by TÜBITAK and the expert on its control by the Governorate. I imagine the report will be in the hands of the Governor right now or a day from now. Mr. Governor said if I could identify the factory that caused this chemical powder, I would shut it down. I expect the Governor's report to be carried out by the Governor in a day's time. I'm talking about a town where you wake up in the morning, you can't open your window with a stink, you can't hang your clothes out, you don't send the kids out; 50,000 people live. They migrated from many parts of Asia Minor, from many provinces, towns, villages, and settled in this area where industry was busy for the sake of work, for the sake of food, for the sake of their children's future. The industry began in the 1970s in Dilova, and the number grew rapidly in the 1990s and 2000s. The only reason it's growing is because the industrialists forgive me, but they're putting the profits first. Unfortunately, two national and international transit routes -- such as E-5 and TEM -- are a very tempting spot for Dilovas -- such as 25km to the airport and near Istanbul, where there is a metropolitan market. Dilova was founded in 2002 as an organised industrial zone. There are rules, regulations, regulations, and obligations in order for an area to become an organised industrial area. For example, the railroad is not supposed to go through it, it's not supposed to go through the international transit routes, it's not supposed to go through the stream, it's not supposed to be a site, and first of all, it's not supposed to have a settlement near it. Despite all these negative developments, the problem with Dilovasi grew day by day, and at a time when you were in power, the Parliamentary Research Commission was established in 2006. Under the findings of the Parliamentary Research Commission, environmental pollution here has been detected by the National Health Department, Gebze TÜBITAK and Gebze Institutes of Technology to determine whether air pollution has a negative impact on human life, and is now on the shelves of Parliament. It has been determined by the Science Council that lung disease in Dilovasi, particularly cases of cancer, is three times the average of Turkey. I assume so far that you have no fault in this twisted industrialization and deviant urbanization in Dilova, you lack nothing in it, I accept it because you've tolerated something that's been happening for a long time. But, look, despite being identified by the Parliamentary Research Commission in 2006, although air pollution is about 30 times higher than the European Union parameters, although you know that pollution threatens human life and deaths occur, I want to remind you to look at Dilovasi's Dilovam, the Dilovam of the idea of Justice and Development. What did you do? On the charge of stirring up the people of Dilova and encouraging the public in a negative way, your local executives dare to say "songing" to the court. Won't someone tell our local executives that your responsibility is to have 50,000 people in Dilovah where there's no theater, no cultural center, no playground, no hospital? Isn't it because of you that these people can't open their windows and hang their laundry, that pollution is on the line, that factory fires are going up every day? Won't someone ask who's in charge of the people who died in a car accident in the area? But, I'm sorry to say, it's a pity that the local executives have their own understanding. Look, I'll tell you what decision you made as a center after 2006. Dilovasi is a dish zone, a region between three hills that is not open to northern winds. Although air pollution has been detected through Parliamental research, you have opened four organised industrial areas after 2006 -- the Government of Justice and Development -- above Dilovasi, two of which are not organised.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0191par0526	That's not true.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0190par0527	I'll tell you, I'll tell you, Mr. Light, you'll come here and talk. You built a solid waste storage facility right above Dilovasi, a.k.a. the dump site. You set up a coal site right next to it. On top of that, you've established chemical industry, organized industry, organized industry, machine and machine manufacturers between the Ironsmiths and the Ironsmiths. I don't have a tongue, but I'd like to express something with sadness. There's something that you, especially Mr. Prime Minister, are saying that we, in Turkey, are the politics of the Justice and Development Party in all areas...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0192par0530	Please complete your promise.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0190par0531	Mr. Prime Minister of the Justice and Development Party, Mr. Prime Minister, says: "We are making politics human-oriented all over Turkey. Did you ask the university? Have you asked the NGOs? Did you ask the vocational rooms? You're not asking any of them. Who makes these master plans if you love your master? Who's the one who's been taking all these peasants' land and giving 'em a run for their money? First of all, if you're sincere about this, which I don't think you do -- you do what you say in general policy in the locals. We are on the side of freedoms. You say, you send him to prison to express his opinion of you, to speak freely. We are for the rule of the will of the people. You say, "You are bringing in the will of the people, and the prisoners. I apologize for my limited time. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0193par0536	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Against you, MP Ilyas Candy. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0194par0540	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you first. Yes, Alexei, indeed one of the most important cities in Turkey, and our friends, the Republican People's Party MP, also had a motion on the case of Kopeli. I won't go into too much detail, but I'm going to tell you about what Mr. Doctor Mehmet Hilal Kaplan told you, but I think they've forgotten that he wasn't the subject of the original motion. They've forgotten one other thing, and they're a good doctor, really, especially in the Gebze region, and we're getting good impressions from there, about their profession. Since he is very familiar with the sick, he does not know much about the environment. What he said was true about the environment, but it was true ten years ago. Many things have been done today, Mr. Congressman, and many rivers have been watered down. Yes, we said it was an important city, and in order to connect Europe to Asia, from Europe to Asia to Europe, from Asia to Europe, you must say hello to Alexei. Go through the vehicle, no matter what you go through, you must pass through the cave. That's what my congressman said ten years ago, and I believe that many of our lawmakers here may have passed through the Alexandria on one occasion, or they may have come and been a guest. Now they'll remember themselves, all of our deputies who passed by the Kobeeli province a decade ago, all of our citizens who had passed by, who didn't, who didn't, had to go through the city, had to block their noses when they passed by. There was so much stench in the area that no study of them has been done in the last ten years. Unfortunately, no work has been done by the local authorities or by the government. Of course, one of the most important reasons is the lack of planning. I'm afraid that Turkey's trouble is unplanned. Before, the understanding in Turkey was this: let the industrialist come and build his factory wherever he wants, let the citizen come and build his building wherever he wants, make his slum, and then let the municipality and the state try to plan according to these constructions. I mean, it was the work to save the day. Remember what one of our elders said: "This is the result of this unplanning - I will build a factory in the House of Çankaya if I want to." This is what happens in the country when they build a factory in the House of Çankaya. These are all mistakes made in the past, but today, thank God, serious steps have been taken in these matters. Very important environmental work has been done by both municipalities and by our government. The planning work was done first in the province. I would like to point out here in particular that I thank all of my fellow lawmakers, especially our Prime Minister, who served here as MPs at the time, very, very much. Why am I thanking you? For making him a major city in the provinces, such as Istanbul. None of these services would have been done today if the city had not been built on its borders. In that sense, I would like to thank our Prime Minister and all of our deputies for that day, and based on that Metropolitan Law, based on that authority, the entire family is now planned. Now the industrialist can't come and build a factory, and the citizen can't go and invade a place of his own. The area is now a total area of 3,505 square miles [3,505 km], where are the industrial areas, where are the trade sites, where are the dwellings, where are the farmlands, where are the forest areas, all of them? The arbitrary practices are now terminated. My congressman told me about the Gebze area. In fact, in the past years, there was such a warped structure in Gebze, when we became a great city, that we placed Gebze, Dilova, Çayırova, Darca, where there was so much industrial space in the construction plans, that when these industrial areas became operational, you couldn't find the housing areas that would make the people who were going to work here, and in our planning, we would either meet the housing needs of the workers from Istanbul, or you would meet it from Kopeeli, or the bridge that would be built -- Izmit, or the new bridge -- and we would have to meet it in Karamümümüssel, and we would have to work with it. Of course, I just told you, it was an important city that connected Europe to Asia. At the moment, there are D-100 and 100 freeways inside of Kopeeli, and there are about 50 traffic lights on D-100 from the Istanbul border to the Yalova border, and there are 100,000 vehicles on this road, according to the statistics of the Highways. For a moment, calculate: Imagine that only 100,000 vehicles, and only one of them, are stuck in traffic lights, and only 20 seconds in these lights, think about the carbon dioxide gas that all those vehicles have given to the city for 20 seconds, and think about the exhaust gas. Here, about the environment...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0195par0547	It was wrong!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0194par0548	It's been done in the past. What has our government done now? He brought up the North Marmara highway to eliminate this problem. Their plans were made, their projects were done, and they're now in the tender stage, bids are being made by the end of the year. When the highway to Northern Asia Minor is built - even further north of Izmit, Izmit will be seriously relieved. On the other hand, in this particular area, we had the Sea of Marmara, and we could not enter the sea. Sadly, there were sewers running all over the sea, and there were no treatment facilities. Currently, here, the Metropolitan Municipality operates 13 treatment facilities in Kopeeli. 13 of the decontamination facilities the Great City has recently built and five of them are under construction. Even in the villages, the treatment plant is now being built, my friends. There are now four treatment facilities in our village, and they're being built in other villages. The goal is to end it in every village by the end of 2012, that's the point. There's 137 thousand tons of mud coming out of these decontamination plants a day, guys. Without these treatment facilities, 137 thousand tons of mud would have gone to the Gulf. Imagine the future of the Gulf. But with this AK PARTY power, with the AK PARTI local governments, all of this has been eliminated, and it has now begun to be discharged after the wastewater of 93 per cent of the population in Kosheli has been purged. These are really one of the important studies of the AK PARTY ruling in the region of Kopeeli. Again, there used to be no greenery in this area. Again, those who passed by the city knew that there was not a square meter of green. While our cities were being planned, according to normal standards, there were supposed to be 10 square meters per person of green space, unfortunately in 2002, it was 1 square meter per person of green space. How long has it been now, green field? It's up to 10 square meters per person. So 30 square feet of green space per person has been increased along with the AK PARTY power, my friends. During that period, however, five million trees were planted. You know what that means? All who live in the family now have at least three and a half trees, so the people living in Samaria are now at ease. I don't have one obelisk, no one says, not one, everyone has 3.5 obelisks with work done by the city and by the government. However, because of the highway, all of the highways, all of the right and left lanes from the Adapazari border to the Istanbul border were treed to protect the city from harmful gases because of the exhaust gas. If we've got friends passing by the highway, they've probably seen those newly planted saplings, three feet and a half feet long. I believe that ten years from now, you won't be able to spot him on the highway to Istanbul on the way to Ankara. Why? You'll be passing through a forest area. And that's all because of the AK PARTY, and because of the local authorities. The sea wasn't being used, the sea was being used. There were two sea vehicles when the Metropolitan municipality took office in 2002. I'm very sorry to say, one of them was called the Ataturk ship, one of them was called the Inönu ship, but unfortunately, two ships were not found with the money that day, so...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0196par0556	Please complete your statement.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0194par0557	... wasunustainable in transportation, but today, now that you've all seen it recently at work, there have been 10 naval transport services in Kopeli. Now the dolphins came, and began to play in the Gulf, and in the Gulf. In the Gulf, the species of fish rose above 40. These are numbers given by official institutions. Yeah, that's how good it's become, but despite that, there's been a really big study that's not compared to the past. For the first time, a plane was chartered as the City of Marseilles and the sea was under control. This audit really doesn't allow bilge waste to be poured into the sea by ships anymore. He comes right up to his head, takes a picture, takes a picture, records it, and the other side doesn't have a chance to object. Again, four ships have been assigned to collect other wastes on the sea. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The environment is everything to us.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0197par0563	The bottom of the Gulf is mud, Congressman!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0194par0564	Whatever it takes for the environment, we make every sacrifice. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0198par0567	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. Lehte, MP Lütfü Türkkan. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0199par0571	Mr. President, before you present yourselves here, I'd like to start by asking you where the dolphins the friend who just gave his speech were. I've never seen a dolphin.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0200par0572	I have a picture of him on my phone. I'll show you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0199par0573	I don't know if one of the almonds was lost or if one of the Elders fell.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0201par0574	Hereke's got it!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0199par0575	If there is, if there is, we'll be happy. Our friend, who was just speaking on behalf of the Justice and Development Party, appeared to be a friend in the City Hall who served as Vice President, so here he is, not a parliamentary speaker, but a member of the city's services. That's why I wanted to tell you about his wisdom. I, too, am a friend of yours, a member of the Parliament of the OSB, who is well acquainted with the pollution of the Bigeli Chamber of Industry until he gets here. He is indeed a city that is growing very quickly in Turkey, which performs 25 per cent of Turkey's exports. Among its exports are some 65 per cent, and one that serves the manufacturing sector. So it's a very important province with both tax contributions and employment contributions. There are five organized industrial areas here, one industrial site, over 200 percent industrial companies, and a very important part of that is heavy chemistry and heavy metal industry. There are 13 private ports of Dilovasi. Since it is a matter of pollution in Dilovasi, which was mentioned earlier, I particularly want to talk about Dilovasi. The Dilovasi OSB (OSB) has one problem. See, in Turkey, organised industrial areas are usually planned, infrastructure is organised as an organised industrial zone, zoning is defined according to it, but we have such misfortune in Dilovasi, the region where existing factories are located was later declared OSB. That's because his wisdom is so different, I don't want to talk about it here. Whether it was true or not, it's not right to argue at this time, but it's an organized industrial area. It's hard to live in a place where the factories that are here in the organized industrial zone are polluting. It's an important brand, I really don't want to say it in order to dirty this brand, but there's no denying it. In a previous speech, I've said that the right to a human being is sacred, to pay taxes, holy, to provide employment, but much more sacred than that. A man who doesn't live doesn't need anything but a three-metre shroud. Therefore, it is the duty of the government today to take measures to keep people alive. When these industries are brought in and set up here without infrastructure, without the necessary conditions for industry, without environmental impacts being well-assessed, the appropriate legal arrangements for this can't be done properly, I'm afraid. There's been a variety of developments in that white dust cloud that happened last week. In TÜBITAK's reports, there are doubts about a paint factory. It's been identified as cement residue in a private lab built by the organized industrial zone. There are two different reports. Here's the thing the government, the local government, the governor's office, the governor's got to do it, whatever factory is causing it, it's got to do it without looking the other way, but there's something wrong with the governor and the municipality, and I'd like to share it with you. Each factory's subcontractor is a firm recommended by the AKP agency, of course.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0202par0583	No, no, that's wrong, that's not fair. Not at all.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0199par0584	I'm an industrialist. Mr. Light, would you excuse me, please? I'll give you a name, too. It's rude here. Local forces, which will enforce sanctions for these factories, are unable to enforce the necessary sanctions of a factory that the agency does business with, and we have a problem with that.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0202par0586	Mr. Lütfü, please give me a name.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0199par0587	There's a very serious runt here. These factories have serious imports, port services, trucking services...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0202par0588	Mr. Lütfü, give me a name.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0199par0589	There's wind supplies, construction, and all of this is done by contractors from the AKP organization with certain pressures. As such, the power of the governorate, of the local government, of the governorate, is dwindling, we have such a problem. I'd like to call from here, and I've just said that every man has to do some work to earn his livelihood, which is natural. There's nothing as sacred as trading, but to press a number of forces to apply the necessary powers to the factories that vomit poisons that kill people doesn't mean to make money. You need to back off from that. If Allah grants people their sustenance, they will surely earn their livelihood from one place, not necessarily. Look, I said something to my speaker friend last week. I'm the Alderman. One, there's literature in it, and the literary thing is that a member of the same district doesn't use language when he's talking to a member of parliament.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0203par0592	If you're unfair, he'll throw it away.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0199par0593	That's literature, but if you try to throw it away, I'll throw more, it's beneath me. I'll say it again.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0203par0594	Mr. Lütfü, don't be unfair...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0199par0595	It's not unfair...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0203par0596	You don't give names, you give names. Look, you're gonna name that factory.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0199par0597	If you object to what I say, you can come here and evaluate it. But, I claim, look, I'm going to build a delegation here, I'm going to take friends from CHP, AKP, MHP, BDP, the factory managers, and I'm going to talk to them without you noticing...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0203par0598	More MHP or AK PARTY? Which one gets more?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0199par0599	I'll ask whom, why, how do you employ them? Man, these guys have a hard time choosing a bakery where they can buy bread. For they say, "You will take bread from this oven. He is an industrialist, and he has nothing much to do. I mean it. Getting over it...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0204par0600	You're not an industrialist.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0205par0601	The truth... the truth, Elitaş.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0199par0602	I'm a merchant, a merchant from Kayseri.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0205par0603	The same thing is everywhere. It's not just the Bigeli.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0206par0604	You didn't learn from Kayseri! Every word of the Kaiser is true.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0199par0605	If the Kaisers could teach, they'd be a little more careful about the mebuses they sent here!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0206par0606	Every word of the Kaiser is true.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0199par0607	The Kayseri...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0207par0608	Mr. Turkkan, please don't talk in person.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0199par0609	Look, I'm talking about pollution in Dilovasi. Pass this pollution a little longer, between Gebze and Hereke's exit -- Mr. Light knows, and the lawmakers know -- after every rain, there are at least 30 or 40 traffic accidents. Do you know why? The emissions there, along with some particulate residue lying on the road, become slippery. After every rain, know that we have lost three or five in traffic. He's taken a serious step towards discharge waste. I'm specifically talking about Dilovasi. Industrialists of the Dilovasi Organised Industrial Zone invest 25m euros in all their waste and then clean it up and then give it to the sea. They included domestic waste. But neither the local government nor the governor's office ever contributed to that. He asked only: "At least clean up the household waste for free. " This is something that the industrialist has to do with his own contribution, and there is no authority for the administration. So don't show off here with the industrialist's money. It was the industrialist. And God bless those who pay. I'm the one who paid that installment. And Allah is pleased with all who do good (to others). Look, the Dilovasi City Hall has been inspected by environmental protection and control teams, and it turns out that about 1,000 tons of industrial-quality and toxic decontamination mud has been poured into the area. It's just this report. As much as the municipality says, we've closed the fine. They can't go too far for what I just said. Our governor has made a promise to us. Indeed, we have a very sensitive governor. We have a governor who's as sensitive to the environment as you are. 262,000 lira fines for the environment. Can you tell me if 262,000 lira is a number for this kind of pollution? I mean, would that be a number? Look, I know everyone here feels as deeply as I do the sensitivity of this nation's people as I do, but we -- I'm a member of the nation's elite -- not for the love of the country, not to be a parliamentary speaker -- for the people living in this country, we've suffered punishments, we've rotted in prisons, we've been tortured. Homeland love is an important love for us, human love is an important love for us. Because we learned love from a Meccan orphan, and we will continue with this love. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0208par0616	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. Against the motion, Alderman Fikri Il. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0209par0620	Mr. President, I have received word on the Republican People's Party Group's motion. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear friends, before I speak, I'd like to clarify what I should discuss. As of last night, the Republican People's Party submitted a motion number 122. The 122 motion contains the overall environmental problems of the Alexandrian family and a motion for the opening of parliamentary research. Later in the morning, we gave it up, we submitted a motion for the BiHC. They took their motion and made a new motion, but there was a little mix-up, Mr. Congressman -- a dear friend of ours -- Mehmet Hilary Kaplan did not give the final motion. So the Republican People's Party forgot to give the Parliament its own motion to his friend.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0210par0622	Dear Light, I have it.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0209par0623	Let's consider this a minor mistake and advise the Republican People's Party Group to be a little more careful and not embarrass the MP here. It's not right to say anything further at the moment. I'm saying it's not the right situation for our friend. Because, look, just to be sure, I asked our friends, they said to the members of the House: Number 122 or Number 124? Proposition 124 already has BHC. Now, these three friends of ours in the House, they spoke in favor, two of them, did they say the word "BiHC" in favor? They didn't say. Yeah, guys, look, it happened last time. The Republican People's Party is making a group motion, discussing things that are not remotely relevant to the content of the motion. Oh, the friends he's talking to... both the Republican People's Party Group and our friends speaking on behalf of the MHP Group...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0211par0627	Nationalist Movement Party...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0209par0628	MHP Group...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0211par0629	Not the MHP, the National Movement Party...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0209par0630	It doesn't work?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0211par0631	I can't...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0209par0632	All right, let's make it the National Party of Action. We also have a lot to say on behalf of the National Party for Action. First of all, my dear friends, if you'll excuse me, our friend speaking on behalf of the CHP Group and our friends speaking on behalf of the National Movement Party Group have brought the matter up. Yes, it's an industrial city. The AK PARTY was not his choice to become an industrial city. This choice was made in the 1950s. Unfortunately, since the state failed to reach the speed of society in the 70s, in the 80s, and in the 90s, Turkey faced a warped industrialization and warped urbanization. As Turkey today, this is the basis of the price we pay as a whole. Now, as an EC PARTY, we work day and night not to minimize that price and inherit this burden that we inherited from our grandchildren. First of all, my dear friends, one of the first jobs we did as soon as we came to power was to do a serious inventory of the environment, and at this point, we've made our Ministry of Environment very serious. Today, as our fellow member of the National Movement Party Group knows very well, many factories today have had to put filters on until 2004, until 2005, unfortunately, when they produce randomly, they don't care about the environment. He had to take all measures to minimize its impact on the environment, and if those who did not, they were seriously sanctioned. Here, at the time of the Ministry of the Environmental Forest, there are measures in which the factory took action against the factories, one by one, and one by one.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0212par0638	Mr. Light, I'll bring in 10 articles in the last ten days.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0209par0639	I'll answer if you listen. We, the AK PARTY Power, certainly have no tolerance for air pollution, water pollution and soil pollution, zero tolerance in this regard. Whoever is involved in an activity that is intended to contaminate the environment will pay the price and will pay by now. In the last instance, our governor is currently having TÜBITAK take a look at it. We've met with our governor ourselves, and he's certainly agreed that he will not be intimidated, that he will be given the most severe punishment in the law, and let me make this very clear: no member of the AK PARTY would make such a request, such as to ignore, to ignore. It's never possible. But the guys... they're eating stuffed foods that don't see each other. One of them said to the other: "Ya, why are you eating two or two? Eat one by one. You don't see it, neither do I. How do you know I ate two or two? That's how I eat, and that's what I think you eat. Now, in earlier times in power, we know very well what criteria were given during the time of the parties when our friends, who previously, today, blame the members of the AK PARTY, were given, especially in Hosaki. We've been through this a lot before and after the earthquake. My dear friends, today's rehabilitation in Dilova is the ruling party of the National Movement Party, which has signed into the organised industry. That's wrong. There's no such thing as an OSB. But on that day, you will be in power, you will sign, you will come today, you will emphasize the error of it. I mean, a man's...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0213par0643	Let's talk...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0209par0644	Look, Mr. Haydar, look... you just brought up the BHC issue, and then you pulled it back. Why? Why did you pull it?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0213par0645	Let's talk about that.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0209par0646	Because you didn't take a single step, for God's sake, you didn't take a single step. After that, now that you're up, you're bringing up the BHC. You noticed at the last moment that we're shooting ourselves in the foot. You probably pulled the motion. You didn't hand over your motion to your friend.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0214par0648	Please don't talk in person, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0209par0649	My dear friends, look, this bench has a moon. This is the stand of the nation. No one's gonna come on this stand and talk in their own way. This bench is not a defamation stand. Everything said on this stand must be proven, fundamentalized. I'm asking a friend of ours right now to please explain which factory is not being punished because of which member of the AK PARTY agency. If he doesn't, I'll declare him a mufter. I like the person. Look, I don't have a problem with the person. He is an industrialist in the crooked, reformed industrial region of Dilova. He's got people eating bread with him. I respect that. But you, by your own signature, will bring forth a freak, a freak, and then you will come, who did this? You will preach here in the House, saying, "Who did this?" That's unacceptable. Another thing... I say to Mr. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan: Dear friends, no OSB was allowed in Dilova during the AK PARTI period. The permission of all OSBs established as OSB in Dilova today was taken before the AK PARTY period, but perpetuity is essential in the state. If the government has signed the previous authority to the establishment of an OSB, you have no right to cancel it, but what do you do? You go to law school. And the law doesn't take back the rights. But we did something.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0215par0651	Why did you do the wrong thing?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0209par0652	Mr. Mehmet Crescent Kaplan, we did something. Charcoalists had a request for the Organised Industrial Zone's expansion field. We said, "No, brother, the first one was wrong here, we won't allow the second one." And we didn't allow the expansion area. We're AK PARTY...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0216par0654	The contract...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0209par0655	Wait a minute... Today, dear friends, we work day and night not to pass on this evil heritage from the past to the future. In this case, no EC PARTY MP or member of the agency or member of the government can make the slightest concession to the environment. The Prime Minister's will on this matter is clear and clear. They're here. There's been a lot of people. There are many who see the Dilovasi as a Rant region. And every one that came, my dear friends, asked us for an OSB, a small industrial space. Last time a marble guy showed up.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0217par0659	Please complete your promise. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0209par0661	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0218par0662	Nuclear power plants don't do any damage?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0209par0663	Friends, I'm sorry, we don't allow any industry in Dilovah anymore. But it bothers me the rights of those who gave Dilovasi organised leave that day, the ones who let it happen during their reign, the ones who let it happen, the ones who came here today, the people who forgot it, to lecture me. At this point, my dear friends, let everyone take their part. And the Dilovasi treatment facility... yes, the Dilovasi treatment facility is a joint project of the city municipality and the Dilovasi industries, the OSB, and there's an agreement.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0219par0666	Whose money is it?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0209par0667	What's the deal? The OSB will build, and the municipality will give domestic waste to them, and it will share in the operating costs of the facilities, and it will be an economic business, and the period of polluting and polluting will be over in Dilova. That's pretty good. That's pretty good. What do we have to go through with all this? I've submitted these facts, my dear friends, and I hope we can discuss the issue of the BiHC if they don't withdraw that motion. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0220par0671	Thank you, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0221par0672	Mr. President, I'd like word on 69.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0220par0673	Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0221par0674	There's been a statement of wisdom about something I've been talking about, Mr. Speaker, I'd like to correct it.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0220par0675	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0222par0676	You can't go through there.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0221par0677	I'm a man with a big eye and a big heart, I can't fit anywhere, you're telling the truth. Then don't lean where you can't fit.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0223par0679	Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0221par0682	Yes, there are 549 MPs in that Parliament. I've got some very old friends at the steak house, I've got a variety of visits, I've got some important visits, I've got people I love a lot, but if you count the top five, they'll have Fikri Light in the top five. And I mean that in a sincere way. It's very important. I say that not just here, but in the local press, in various places. As a friend, as a friend, he's a very important man. I don't know about politicians. The Justice and Development Party evaluates him. For once, I'm going to tell my good friend that I'm from the OSB administration. I was the director of the organized industrial district on my way here. The Dilovasi Organised and Industrial Region was declared OSB by the Ministry of Industry in 2003.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0224par0684	No.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0221par0685	Yeah.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0224par0686	No, it's wrong. You're wrong.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0221par0687	Congressman, please take a good look.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0224par0688	You're wrong.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0221par0689	In 2003. Because you know what caused it? He's right.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0224par0690	The permits are your power. You gave the permits.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0221par0691	Wait a second, I have something to say. He didn't do anything bad, he did something good.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0224par0693	You gave me permission.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0221par0694	There, the organised industrial district, the municipality of a town, is now in the organised industrial district, and the industrial facilities that are very important to Turkey were between the lips of the mayor of a town. That wasn't a very pleasant event either. I mean, I don't mind the government doing something like that, I don't, but it's the right thing to do. No, I'm not saying it's bad. It's true. And that's the right thing to do. I'll tell you something else. I'm expressing another mistake here. Now, in Dilovasi, before, you know, there was a commission on pollution. According to that commission, they said to move two neighborhoods from here. We, the OSB administration, have continued nationalization, so we take people's housing and get them out of the housing area. By the way, while we were doing that, they came in, and they're doing six school projects right next to the Organised Industrial Zone, where the smoke is coming out of these industrial chimneys. Isn't that a sin, friend? When there was a place to expand north, they went and programmed six schools into the dirtiest part of Dilova, and I believe that soon, before long, they will be moved again. I asked the individual then, and I asked Fikri Bey, and I asked the governor, and I told the mayor, "Come, I'm not looking for another finish under this plan, and I'm not looking for something that's due north to Chile, where there's less air pollution, where there's no air pollution, where there's no industrial, nor northern winds. I recently attended the groundbreaking ceremony of the first one. I was surprised why they did such a thing. So on the one hand, don't let people die here. Let these industrial wastes not poison these people. We will say, "On the other hand, we will have these people read in the midst of this poison." Thank you. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0225par0700	Thank you, Mr Turkkan.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0226par0701	Mr. President, I'd like to speak to Mr. Light for another meaning in my speech.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0225par0702	Please, I promise you, correct the change of meaning -- 60. Just a minute... please fix it.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0226par0705	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, Mr. Light has a point where I don't mention the issue of the BiHC because I don't use time very well, but there's no way to ignore the recent incident in Dilovasi. I'll tell you about the FBiHC: DDT and inhibitors, which were not banned until 1985, were banned in 1985 as benzenhegzachloride. These substances - 2,000, 3,000 tons - were known to be carcinogens - have been banned from a factory in the Deep, in 1985, and have been known to have toxic substances in its storage space - have been unresolved for twenty-six years. Last semester, as you know, the Bigeli Industrial Room, the Alexandria Metropolitan Municipality, you know that at the point where they're trying to organize it together, at the point of elimination in Europe, 2,000, 3,000 tons are only 300 tons. Now, an earthquake zone. In a possible earthquake, these harmful substances are found in the sea and nearby... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm curious to know how you'll vote on our motion to place him in the ground. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0227par0711	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan, for your contribution.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0228par0712	Mr. President, I'd like a word on 60, a brief statement.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0227par0713	Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0228par0714	Dear friends, we appreciate your sensitivity, but we've stressed that your group has misled you, one. Look, right now neither the High Assembly nor our nation knows what BHC is. Your proposal is about BHC, so if you could talk about it, we could talk about BHC. It's our common problem, of course, and we don't have to say no. We appreciate you guys bringing this up. We would have talked about it if you had entered the FBiHC and you hadn't been given the wrong research proposal. And two: look, we have no tolerance for environment, zero tolerance. We've stressed it, we're still stressing it. There's no way we can compromise at these points. There's nothing more important than human beings, and we're showing it with everything we've done. I wish we could talk about the BiHC, but we could tell you what's been done -- this is what it's been done so far. But you didn't say, Mr. MHP's Speaker didn't say, just a general frame was drawn, so we answered accordingly. Now that you've brought up the BHC...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0229par0718	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0230par0719	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0229par0720	Just a minute, Mr. Slim. Mr. Light, would you please explain what the BHC is, please, very much.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0231par0722	Sure.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0229par0723	Give me an open name. Tell us now, so we can hear from there.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0232par0724	I did.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0233par0725	Let him look in the dictionary.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0234par0726	If you'll excuse me, two or three minutes...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0235par0727	I mean, I want to read the motion again so there's no misunderstanding. The motion here has been issued to us about the investigation of dangerous waste in the district of Deepne, the province of Kopeeli.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0234par0728	Yeah, it's about the BHC.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0236par0729	Mr. President, you don't need to know about BHC. You don't have to comment on that either.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0235par0731	No, Mr. Elitaş...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0236par0732	So there's a spokesman here, Mr. President, and you consider yourself a spokesman for the CHP Group.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0235par0733	Mr. Elitaş, wait a minute...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0236par0734	No, here's where the Kobeeli MPs know.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0235par0735	Mr. Elitaş, we've spoken, we haven't spoken, I've spoken, I haven't... I'd like to understand what it is when I say it. Please...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0237par0736	May Mr. Elitaş enlighten us about the BHC. We'd like to hear your expert opinion on this matter, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0236par0737	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0235par0738	Roger that, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0238par0739	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0235par0740	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0238par0741	Mr. President, Mr. Light has told our Congressman that your group has misled you, that they have given you a false motion.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0239par0742	It's on the record.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0238par0743	Now, Mr. Light has been a member of parliament for two semesters, and it's a shame if he hasn't found out yet.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0240par0744	You didn't learn, you did!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0238par0745	For one thing, the group doesn't give the motion to investigate. Our congressman, who submitted that motion for research, is our first-signed Congressman, who gave it to us.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0241par0746	Muharrem, you're going the wrong way. Look, here's your signature.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0238par0747	The group approved it, gave it to the Speaker, was interviewed here. So we gave our deputy a motion to Mr. Crescent Kaplan, he got it wrong, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0241par0748	Mr. President, please warn me, as you just did. This must be Mr. Slim's signature.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0238par0749	Wait a minute... the counseling board...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0241par0750	Mr. President, I think you're going to intervene, as you just asked our friend to tell us what the BHC is.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0242par0751	Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0238par0752	What's that sign for?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0241par0753	It's about what he's going to see today.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0242par0754	Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0238par0755	Yes!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0241par0756	But friends see different things.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0242par0757	Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0238par0758	No, look, isn't it Mr. Crescent Kaplan who made the motion?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0242par0759	Mr. Elitaş, please listen to a group of vice presidents as they speak.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0238par0760	I brought him up, with my signature, with his presence on the agenda, the motion given by Mehmet Hilal Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0243par0761	That's what we agreed on.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0242par0762	I'm waiting for the end of the line.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0238par0763	It's surprising that Mr. Light didn't know such simple information.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0242par0764	It's on the record.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0244par0765	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0242par0766	Congressmans, this has become clear. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0245par0773	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0242par0774	If you want roll call, roll call...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0246par0776	Mr. President, you've taken a vote, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0242par0777	Please state their names and note them down.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0246par0779	They stood up after the vote, sir!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0242par0780	Mr. Yalçınkaya, Mr. Murat, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Tün... If you'll please state your names... we can't hear them. Congressmans, Mr. Ence, do not sit down until you can pronounce the names of your MPs. Please... [[They sit because they can't count from the AK PARTY rows.]] That's enough, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0247par0786	Where have you been?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0242par0787	If you don't make a noise... (Bravo) Ladies and Gentlemen, if you don't make a noise... If you could just say one name at a time... please...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0247par0789	Mr. President... first of all, friends, what are you applauding? Clerks need to know the names and tell them. Are you applauding what they don't know?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0248par0790	The president didn't know. He just knew it all by heart, Mayor.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0242par0791	Mr. Elistash, I beg you very much. Please... I mean, please, it's not nice to be treated like this when you're doing a procedure that's in the General Assembly. Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Land, Mr. Pitcher... [[Noises]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Yalçınkaya, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Dirt, Mr. Land, Mr. Hamzaçebi, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Logoglu, Mr. Guruturk, Mr. Gular, Mr. Öner, Mr. Akar, Mr. Special, Mr. Eksinci. I'll give you three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Republican People's Party Group's proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Congressmans, we now move on to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume our talks with the 1st-place Turkish Republic Government and the Romanian Government, where we left off with the draft law bill and the Foreign Commission Report, where it is appropriate to ratify the Maritime Agreement. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Yesterday's merger completed negotiations on item 1. Now the question-answer will be done on the matter. If anyone's going into the system, the MPs...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0249par0815	Mr. President, you're either going to tell me about yesterday or the people who came in...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0242par0816	No. There was Mr. Vural before. Mr. Vural isn't here either. Now I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. Article 2- This goes into effect in the history of Law publishing. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Articles, Aydın MP Bulent Tezcan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Tezcan.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0250par0823	What's there to talk about?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0251par0824	We'll see what we can talk about. I'm sure there's something to say. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 2 of the Bill of Law on the Approvement of the Maritime Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Romanian Government of Turkey. Dear friends, you've just heard what's being read. The article states that this law shall be carried out in the history of publication. Dear friends, international contracts are enforced. In the entry clause of the same contract, when signing this international contract, look what was said, what was signed for this international contract. We're signing a contract to develop trade relations between the two countries, and for other purposes like this, between Romania and Turkey. Dear friends, when it comes to international trade relations, it's exports and imports. Why are we signing these contracts? We'll import, export. If you, in a nine-year period of power, base the economy on imports alone and if you make Turkey an import paradise in your nine-year period of power, write down all the terms of the contract you want, sign all the international contracts you want, is it possible for you in that country to get what you expect from that international contract? Look, dear friends, Turkey's foreign trade deficit has just been announced, $83 billion. Turkey's foreign trade deficit is 83 billion dollars. I was in my hometown for a holiday visit, in Aydin. I visited the villages of Aydın. Aydın is a region where the world's most beautiful agricultural products grow. For a long time, in Aydın, the farmer would sow cotton, smile, smile at the fig farmer, but in the AKP's ruling period, you dropped 80,000 hectares of cotton to 40,000 hectares in nine years. Cotton man's a mess. Today Söke took out his account for the agricultural room: 1 kilo of cotton costs $1.87 p.m., dear friends, $1.87. You're selling cotton for $1.50, $1.40, you're selling cotton, you're paying 42 cents, you've sentenced the cotton farmer for five cents, you're making him work for five cents. Dear friends, in nine years you have made Turkey a country where its own products are imported and you create rich people through that import. The farmer ran away from the cotton, headed for the corn, now you've ruined the corn. They gave the corn to the land crop office for 61 cents. There's corn in the land crop office, the farmer couldn't get his corn out of the field, and then you authorized the land crop office to import 500,000 tons of corn. Forty cents on the dollar, corn farmer's a mess right now. Figs are the same. The fig farmer, the fig maker, can't find a way to explain his problem. We issue questions, round answers when we give them the question motions. The fig farmer wants a bonus. The fig farmer wants the compassionate arms of the state so he doesn't get run over by the great merchant about imports. The fig farmer wants to remove a meaningless export date called a loading date that is not in any export product. You're not going to solve the fig farmer's problem, you're not going to solve the cotton farmer's problem, you're not going to solve your own olive oil farmer's problem... Look, in all the Aegean, not only in Aydin, but in the olive oil is crying. He wrote here that 50 cents is not enough. He says it's not enough. What the farmer said, in today's newspapers, it's in front of you, it's distributed to everyone. Dear friends, the lowest price of olives in the last eight years, says the olive producer, the last eight years. Costs are up 100 percent, but prices are down by half. The farmer says it, I don't say it. He's a miserable farmer. So you're going to sign a trade agreement, you're going to mess up the cotton guy, you're going to mess up the corn producer, you're going to mess up the olive oil producer...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0252par0834	What country do you live in?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0251par0835	...and in your own country, you will produce the goods that your own farmer can produce, import from outside, from America, from Greece. You will condemn your own farmer to poverty, to the farmer of another country to wealth. Dear friends, after that...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0253par0836	Come sailing, come sailing!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0251par0837	I'm coming, of course, to the sea... what will you carry with you without knowing these things, with the sea? If you don't know that, you'll go out to sea and bring cotton from the outside, you'll ruin my Light farmer with the sea trade. If you know these things, you know what shipping and exports are in that country, that farmer, you know how to sell your own people's property out, you know how to keep your own farmer prosperous, but you don't have that approach. Dear friends, look...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0254par0839	Mr. Tezcan, if you'll lower your tone, please...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0251par0840	Yes, sir. Thank you. Dear friends, see, Article 2 of the law states that this law is enforced by the publication of the Official Gazette. Now, that's a little misspelled. In my opinion, the government wrote it wrong, it shouldn't have written it like that. What was it supposed to say instead? Instead, the government should have said: "This contract will come into effect under the sign of Obama, and it will be removed by order. The government should have written it down.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0255par0843	What does Obama have to do with Romania?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0251par0844	Why? Why is he a writer? It must be written in order that Obama will be put into effect by his sign, and he will be removed by his instruction.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0255par0845	Are you so afraid of Obama? Are you so afraid of Obama?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0251par0846	For this, friends, in the square: Look, you signed a visa agreement with Syria a year ago. You signed a free trade agreement with Syria a year ago. Then all of a sudden, you put these deals on hold, you put them on the shelf, and now we're at war with Syria. You are hosting Syrian dissidents in Turkey. Look, newspaper clippings here... newspaper clippings here... where you train the owners of the rebel army in Syria. Why? Because Obama instructed me to put aside contracts that came into effect a year ago. By order of Obama, you have removed the contracts.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0256par0848	What substance does it have?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0251par0849	Dear friends, in North Africa, when the Arab spring reflects on you, when the AKP reflects on you, it turns into the spring of Obama...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0256par0850	What substance are you talking about?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0251par0851	...and I'm afraid if you continue like this, you'll bring Turkey into Middle East hell.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0256par0852	Wow, what a disaster!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0251par0853	Dear friends, there's something else. Now, the Constitution... we're talking about Article 2 of this law. What does the 2nd article of the law say? It says: "This will be carried out by the publication of the Law." Dear friends, yes, we also have a Constitutional decree on how international contracts should be implemented. And the Constitution says, look, the last joke of the 90th article is that if the international contracts are above the internal law provisions, you will honor international contracts.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0257par0855	It's about basic rights...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0251par0856	Well, that's what you wrote on this item. Turkey has been convicted many times in European human rights contracts due to unjust arrests. There are people in Turkey who have been under arrest for four years, and there are people in Turkey who are still under arrest, even though they do not know what they are accused of. Where is the 90th article of the Constitution, where are the international contracts superior to internal law? So you're going to bring us a rule of law, and you're going to say, "Let's take it off, but let's not apply it, one, depending on our pleasure, two, on the sign of Obama." No, that's not true. (CHP cheers) The law is issued to be enforced. Dear friends, finally...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0258par0858	You're confusing judgment with power!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0251par0859	Don't bother. Look, item 2 is very clear...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0259par0862	Please take your word for it, Mr. Tezcan, finish it.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0251par0863	I'm running out, Mr. President. And finally, I'm telling you, we're talking about the naval agreement. Dear friends, today is November 17th. Today is the day the last Padişah Vahdetttin escaped from Turkey by sea, the day he took refuge with the British, and the day that you celebrated the 150th death anniversary of Abdulmecid. November 17th was the day of the birth of Abdulmecid. It seems that the love of the kingdom continues, your desire to ride the reigning boat continues, but remember this: The boat of righteousness does not always float on water. My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0260par0867	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan. There's no demand for word on matter. Question-answer... Mr. Cloud, come in.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0261par0871	Mr. President, the Danube is coming out of Germany and most of it is passing through Romania. All the industrial waste in all the areas he's been through is being poured into it, and that shit's filling up the Black Sea. According to experts today, the base of the Black Sea is filled with a large mass of clay, and as the seabed order is broken there, the life of the living creatures has become the destruction of the bottom fish that only the upper floating fish can live on. I know the Minister is environmentally sensitive. What measures do we take to tell the European people who taught us about environmentalism to stop polluting our environment? What kind of sanction are we doing? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0260par0873	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0262par0875	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, indeed what our congressman is referring to, it is true that the Danube River is contaminated by Europe. In fact, when I became the General Manager of the BSI, we came into contact with this issue in Istanbul, and then we took a step towards preventing the contamination of this Black Sea in the Black Sea Co-operation Frame. Indeed, all coastal countries are working on it now, but pollution continues. I'll tell you, our government is very determined about this. We're making the necessary warnings. However, there is a particular dead zone, not mud related to the Black Sea, that comes from the natural nature of the Black Sea. So 200 meters below, the dead area of the Black Sea is not caused by the mud, but we are not... measured, the pollution from the Danube River was not measured. For the first time in 1996, we started measuring for pollution from the Danube, and these measurements continue. At the moment, we've even built not only the pollution from the Danube, but 198 marine water quality measuring stations to measure the quality of water on all our shores. Now that the work is going on, we're writing to countries. But of course, the economic situation of some Czech countries, such as Czechoslovakia, Romania, is also known -- the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Romania. They're still working on it. I'll give it to you briefly. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0260par0877	Thank you, Mr. Eroglu. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. On the behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the third article, Bolu MP Tanju Özcan. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0263par0883	Mr. President, I, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, stand before you today to express my opinion on Article 3/3 of the Dair Law Bill, that the ratification of the Maritime Agreement signed between the Republic of Turkey and the Romanian Government is appropriate. I'd like to start by saying that relations between Turkey and Romania are historically deep. Indeed, relations between Turkey and Romania have been constantly improving for many, many, many years without any political barriers. Even though some still have mutual prejudices because of what happened in history, the Romanians have always trusted the Turks, the Turks, even Turkish people, they keep their word. Dear lawmakers, Romania is Turkey's largest commercial partner in the Balkans today. If I say that Romania is one of the most exports and imports in the Balkans today in terms of mutual trade, the first is Romania, the first is Romania, the Black Sea region is the Black Sea coast, and Romania is the second most important in terms of the Turkish trade, then the Russian Federation is the Russian Federation. Romania is Turkey's 11th most exported country, the 19th most imported country. Again, dear friends, Romania is at the top of the countries, which have given Turkey the most support for the European Union process -- which is shown by polls. I'd like to share this with you. Of course, when it comes to a deal on sailing, I'd like to mention a few things about Turkey's point of view of sailing, which is surrounded by the three sides of the sea. Although the three sides are surrounded by seas, Turkey is 92% in cargo transport, 95% in passenger transport. Our share in shipping and shipping is only 2.5 percent. I'd like to address a few issues at the point of where they came from in the naval field during the AKP period. During the AKP period, Turkey's share of the world's sea trade in the world was around 2 per cent ten years ago, and after AKP's ten years of power -- I mean, that rate -- has dropped to one per cent.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0264par0890	Two out of a thousand, you're reading it wrong.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0263par0891	I'm reading it right, I'm reading it right. If you know so well, come and tell me. In 2002, while making 60 per cent of our foreign trade by sea route, in 2010, the rate was reduced to 19 per cent. Again, despite its lack of contribution during the AKP, the naval sector has reached a point of its own capacity, reaching an export figure of around 10 billion dollars, but in particular over the past three years, as a result that the sector has not been seriously supported by the government, particularly in the shipyards, many people have been considered to be 20,000 -- unemployed. In this sense, I think that if our naval sector is not supported by the AKP government in the coming years, the challenges will continue to increase, Turkey, which is surrounded by the three sides of the sea, will not have benefited from this very important opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is an international agreement. Of course, when I talk about the international agreement, I can't help but mention an international prime minister. You call him the world leader, I call him the so-called world leader, called him Haydar Akar, our MP from Alexandria, the world leader. I guess it turns out who I'm talking about. I'm talking about Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0265par0895	You're talking about the Prime Minister, you'll be respectful.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0263par0896	You be respectful. I know what I'm talking about. Give me a break. Is that the king I'm talking about? I'm talking about the padishah? I'm talking about the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey. I'm talking about a critical person. Know your place, you're being rude.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0265par0897	Respect, respect.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0263par0898	Mr. President, will you step in, Mr. Metiner? He talks about it all the time.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0266par0899	You're the fake, fake.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0267par0900	Mr. Ozcan, please don't talk to each other. Please address the General Assembly. And choose your words carefully, I beg you very much.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0263par0901	Yes, sir. Now, we live in Turkey, ruled by this so-called world leader. We're lawmakers in this so-called world leader country. Now, when I talk about international relations, I'd like to make a point. I don't know, do we have any friends who recently went to the United States of America or England? I don't know if you know what challenges MPs face on their way to the United States of America or on their way to England. I don't know if the U.S. or the United States of America has granted visas to MPs carrying diplomatic passports carrying a passport to the Republic of Turkey, do you know that? I don't know that they didn't just apply visas, they searched you after they landed, they had your seat belts taken off, they took off your shoes and walked you barefoot, you know? [[When did you leave the AK PARTY? sound]] I was there very soon, last week.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0268par0905	You put visas in our colleges, visas in Turkish citizens. Change your mind first.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0263par0906	Now I'm looking at this: we're run by a world leader, he's our Prime Minister, but he's not even treating the Turkish Republic's deputies as men, and you're saying, "Our Prime Minister is the leader of the world."
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0268par0907	Exactly.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0263par0908	You react when you call such a world leader. To hell with the world leader!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0269par0909	Let them love you!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0263par0910	Dear friends, there is a principle in international relations called the principle of reciprocity. We learned that in law school, and most of you have. You treat a country the same way it treats you. The United States of America and England are giving us visas. So, can we do something like this to the MPs, to the parliamentarians of those countries? Can we afford it?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0270par0911	When the CHP is in power, you do it.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0263par0912	You do this, you take care of your own MP, you get your own MP to gain international dignity, and then you go back and say, "I'm the world leader."
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0271par0913	If you could just see where Turkey is coming from on Earth.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0263par0914	I'm sorry if I didn't say so, but the Kopeeli MP tells your leader that he's the leader of the world.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0272par0915	That's not fair.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0263par0916	I'll applaud that.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0273par0917	We say, "Don't be disrespectful."
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0263par0918	I'd also like to address a matter that I think is of great importance, which I think is of great importance to my knowledge. Mr. Prime Minister, we know this from the southern district of Rize. The population of the southern district of Rize is about 12,000, and the population of my constituency of the province of Bolu is 15,500. The Ministry of Health has made a decision a while ago, changing the status of some hospitals, saying that I will change the status of the hospitals of districts with less than 20,000 inhabitants as E1. He also put it into practice. Later, although some counties had very small populations, he gave them their former status again. I told the Minister here, I gave him 67,000 signed petitions, and I said: "The Mengen has a very old population, he has many patients, he has 60 kilometers to the nearest full hospital, and these people want their rights." Mr. Minister said, "There is no guarantee." I showed the precedents, and I said, "Look, Mr. Prime Minister was born in the district of Southsu, the population is lower, the criteria are healthier, but despite this, the status of this county's state hospital remains in E1. Mr. Minister told me: "I'm sorry, but it's where Mr. Prime Minister was born. No one will forgive me, but the Mengen district of Bolu is where I was born. If this is being done according to this, you will give me the old status of Mengen's state hospital, and if you do not, I will continue to say it in every environment. How do you react to that?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0274par0919	You must be preparing for the presidency!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0263par0920	I'm not getting ready to be president. If the Prime Minister is acting as Prime Minister in this country and the Prime Minister's adjective gives him such a privilege and you're applauding it, I say shame on you, I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0275par0922	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Please remain calm.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0276par0925	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0275par0926	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0276par0927	Mr. President, the Hajjip has tried to criticize our Group President, the Prime Minister of this country, other than discipline. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0275par0928	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0276par0932	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs gave a nice speech when I stepped out just now. In his statement, he said: "The talks of our fellow citizens about the agenda allow both the information of lawmakers and the public to benefit from the public following us. " I thank him. He gave a speech yesterday, Mr. Thin. He said: "We don't want to bring an issue about the leader of any political party here. We accepted it, we appreciated it. We said that criticism should not reach the point of insult. Here's our congressman friend, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, whether you like it or not, but it's not going to benefit you or the nation to try to reduce or shrink a elected Prime Minister by the will of this nation. Please, let our friends who have come here give us a more cautious, discreet way of speaking and trying to take advantage of things together. You're talking about visas, that's right. So far, all the countries in the world have been visaing to Turkey, but the deals we've made, the talks we've had, we've lifted the visa with 56 countries.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0277par0937	It's getting up on New Year's Eve!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0276par0938	And midterms are up for Christmas. Ladies and gentlemen of Congress, consider your speeches about future actions, not about time. While you criticised the visa that the countries of the world gave us, you didn't give a visa to get a congressman in ten years ago because of the head cover. You didn't give the students of this nation a visa, to their headscarf, to the students of persuasion. First, consider your own matters, but it's no one's right to call a Prime Minister that the nation accepts and the world appreciates. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0278par0942	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. [[Continue]] No promises. No questions, no answers. I submit Article 3 to your votes...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0279par0950	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit02spe0278par0951	All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliaments, as a result of a clear vote between the Turkish Republic's Government and the Romanian Government that the Agreement of Maritime is in order: [[x]] Muhammad Bilal Macit Fatih Şahin Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0278par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 20th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will begin talks with Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which ranked in the 2nd place between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the New Zealand Government, in accordance with the Agreement Approvement for Air Services. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed by the number of 21 rows. On top of the bill, Antalya MP Gürkut Acar will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Acar.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0280par0009	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you with love and respect. I have made a commitment to discuss the draft law bill and the Foreign Commission Report that the Agreement for Air Services between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the New Zealand Government is in order. Dear lawmakers, we support the bill on the agreement between Turkey and New Zealand on air services. With this bill, the two countries will work in civilian aviation both to improve cooperation and to boost security measures. We wish for positive results on behalf of the two countries. We won't be able to get through without saying a few words about air travel. There has been a recent increase in air transport in Turkey, but it has to be discussed how planned and controlled growth is. As the number of flights rose, did the number of passengers increase, and the growth needed in terms of infrastructure and control? So the civilian aviation agency, which will provide control and control, has grown and gone to a new organization? Have local services, technical staff, pilots, and other flight attendants been able to increase their quantity and quality? Have the necessary steps to increase flight security, or life safety, been taken? It is impossible to say that there is much distance in these matters, which should be questioned well. The risks of uncontrollable growth need to be calculated well. Turkey's location in terms of the risk of accident is not at a positive point. Turkey must be saved from becoming top of its list of fatal accident rates at risk rates. Turkey has suffered serious losses in the last three major plane crashes. We all wish it never happened again, but it's not something that will happen with good wishes and wishes. The necessary infrastructure must be provided with sufficient personnel and equipment. In this development of air travel, improvements should be made to pilots, flight attendants, and other flight crews, technical staff, staff employed in the field services, and under heavy work burdens. Those who carry this sector with hard work must be rewarded for their hard work. In addition, accident investigations must be ensured an independent structure. As with some accidents, the Civil Aeronautics General Directorate must be abandoned in its efforts to cover its responsibility for the Ministry of Transport. Indeed, the environment in which experts can study independently needs to be prepared. No one's against the growth, the development of air travel, but I think it should be our duty to make this growth a safe growth. My fellow lawmakers, the intersection of the fates of Turkey and New Zealand has occurred with the First World War and the Battle of Çanakkale. They came from thousands of miles away with the Australians as Anzacs, and fought with those who wanted to invade Anatolia. Fortunately for us, they met a great commander like Mustafa Kemal the Great, and our soldiers determined to defend their homeland. Sadly, they learned with their lives that Çanakkale could not be crossed. Now they're in our hands on our land. New Zealand is very far from our country, but our relationships are improving. We know that many of our young ones have gone to New Zealand. It is a joy to include civilian aviation in the co-operation areas between Turkey and New Zealand. The principle of reciprocity is preserved in the treaty. It is also fair and true that the treaty will end as soon as both sides wish and report. Dear MPs, therefore, we will vote yes to this treaty. The Anzaks of New Zealand have been frustrated in Çanakkale, and I am honored to speak in the Council of Mustafa Kemal, who defeated them. Dear MPs, unfortunately this is what happened the other day at the Grand National Assembly, when Mustafa Kemal Kemal was insulted at the Assembly of Mustafa Kemal, saying that his past was the eternal chief, the national chief Fascism. I would like to take this opportunity to express my views on this matter. Dear friends, these words from the AKP spokesman have severely hurt us.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0281par0020	Who said that?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0280par0021	I'm not gonna tell you who said it, because...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0281par0022	Why? Tell me, dear. No one insulted Mustafa Kemal.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0280par0023	There's no need. In Turkey's past, there are reports of eternal chief, national chief fascism.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0281par0025	Of course, there's national chief fascism.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0282par0026	Don't you have any shame!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0280par0027	Yes, I have with me the permanent chief, the national chief Fascism.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0281par0028	Your CHP friends told me.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0282par0029	You're still talking, aren't you ashamed! Have a seat in the back. Aren't you ashamed!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0280par0030	Dear friends, this is... look, I, if you'll excuse me, would like to take this opportunity to express my opinion of this matter without any difficulty.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0282par0031	Aren't you ashamed! You wouldn't say that if you were ashamed.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0280par0032	My dear friends, let's see what fascism is. Yeah, I knew you'd object to that...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0283par0033	Mr. President, the CHP Group is being trashed by my group, so please step in.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0282par0034	And he's talking about it, and he won't stop talking about it.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0283par0035	Mr. President, please step in.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0284par0036	Mr. Elitaş, please have a seat. Congressmans, please listen to the speaker.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0285par0038	If you'll excuse me, I'll finish my vows. My dear friends, look, if it weren't for Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his friends, maybe we wouldn't have had the honor of being a legislator in this Grand National Assembly. So let me say a few words about our existence, our absence. If it weren't for Mustafa Kemal and his friends, we wouldn't have a state to make this deal with New Zealand. Therefore, I ask you to allow me to express my views on these matters on this occasion. Dear friends, look, let's be careful what fascism is. Is Turkey today a freer country than 2002, a country that talks more freely at universities, unions, where justice is truly more independent and fair, where people can communicate freely with each other?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0286par0042	Yes, he is.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0285par0043	Isn't it? Has our democracy really come to an advanced stage?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0286par0045	He's coming.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0285par0046	Is the media able to deliver independent and unbiased news? Or did the majority of them change hands and become allies? These questions need to be put to good use. No one can say today that Turkey is living in a freer, more democratic environment, sharing a more positive environment. Turkey is being dragged one step at a time, but even though the unions don't talk, the universities don't talk, scientists, columnists have a hard time talking, we're here as CHP, and we're going to keep telling them and the truth from the public stand. Mr. President, a valued lawmakers, a colleague of mine, a man who dedicated half a century of his life to justice, to defence, a senior of mine, attorney Turgut Kazan Erzurum, former president of the Istanbul Bar, appeared before the judge at Erzurum, demanding a restraining order. What was he accused of? Erzincan is accused of being the lawyer of our Denizli MP friend İlhan Cihaner, a former Public Prosecutor's Attorney, whose office has been raided by a prosecutor with special authority as a client. Ilhan Cihaner stands trial for asking why evidence is not considered by prosecutors. There's no way to understand it, to defend something like this, to accept it. This is an attack on the direct defense.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0286par0048	We're talking about Zealand, aren't we?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0285par0049	So, I'd like to tell you a little bit about the fascism we owe him today, about the state we owe him. Please, if you'll just be patient, I'll be right there. See, this is an assault on the right to defend, an assault on the profession of attorney. If a lawyer from the legendary head of the Istanbul Bar, who has become a prayerr in this country, is being detained for practicing law on these matters, remember, my dear friends, if such a path is opened -- which is opened -- justice, law, lawyer may one day be needed for everyone. Dear lawmakers, how did Turkey get to this point? Lawyers' lawyers are on trial, prosecutors' lawyers are on trial, this process must be questioned well. The bureaucratic staff has been replaced, after the change of rectors, deans, head of the RSR and president. In the media, the exchange of capital was started, and the conglomerates, the holdings under the leadership of the grooms, were made media owners. A media group has been intimidated by billions of pounds of tax fines. Now, piece by piece, this media group's newspapers, televisions, are changing hands. There was only one judgment left, which was adapted to the system by AKP's single constitutional amendment.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0287par0052	People have changed, people.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0285par0053	We also told the CHP that day that this was an operation to take over the judiciary. The painting is in the middle today. My dear friends...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0287par0055	Don't insult people. People have changed, people. Our nation has changed.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0285par0056	Everyone knows which spiral you're offering it in. Look, my dear friends... if you'll just be patient... please... I've listened to you with a lot of respect. Look, staffing doesn't necessarily mean throwing 30,000 judges out on the street and replacing them with 30,000 judges and prosecutors raised in the same mold. First, you take over the board that appoints judges and prosecutors, you shape it, and then the board lays a groundwork on you with some of their decisions that you really have to risk being a hero to do an independent, really neutral investigation, to make a trial. That, my dear friends, is the true fascism. You're a prosecutor...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0288par0060	Didn't the Bars choose members of the Constitutional Court?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0285par0061	If you'll excuse us, we'll discuss them later. I'll tell you what I think, and then you can tell me. If you press a prosecutor in his office with a special prosecutor, if you press him, if you send him to other cities to investigate a judge who makes decisions you don't like, who writes opposition harms that you don't like, if you force another judge to retire, the staff process will be complete. Because judges, prosecutors, there's no way they'll be able to function with independent, genuine consciences. That's what fascism is all about. What about hero judges and prosecutors? Of course there is. But that's not the way it's supposed to be. In fact, this is a situation that should be challenged. Because judges and prosecutors must be able to act independently, objectively, without the slightest pressure. However, this system of things has been corrupted in the judiciary. The new HSYK has made it clear to the judges and prosecutors how it wants a judiciary with its decisions. The climate of justice has been corrupted. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, after the judge and prosecutor's foot of justice, now it's time to defend. The Turgut Kazan case is the most concrete example. When a lawyer comes before a judge because he's doing his job as a lawyer, because he's defending himself, it's time for all lawyers to give you the message. That's what fascism is all about.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0289par0066	Get to the point, Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0285par0067	My dear friends, if you bear with patience, perhaps this will be painful for you, perhaps you will regret it, but how we look at it. If you listen, we will be kind enough to...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0290par0068	Get to the point, get to the point.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0285par0069	I came to the point, I already told you. Please allow me to express my own opinions here. My dear friends, look...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0291par0071	Mr. President, is that our agenda?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0292par0072	We don't worry. But separate the judiciary from the power.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0285par0073	Sir, if you'll excuse me, all of Turkey knows he's not.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0292par0074	Why should we be upset?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0293par0075	It's not like your time.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0285par0076	My dear friends, look, no force, no pressure, will stop the defense and prevent it. Despite all the pressures, despite the compulsions, lawyers will carry out their sacred right to defend the state of law and maintain the state of law. We'll continue to give them all the support from here. Maybe it'll be our turn after a while, but don't shut up. As CHP, we will not shut up, we will continue to tell our people the truth. Mr. Turgut Kazan cried out in Erzurum yesterday in court the other day. He said, "I will not submit to injustice." And I say from this stand, yes, we will never yield to injustice, injustice. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been turned upside down in Turkey by law enforcement decrees of the public system. Four decrees were issued on the day the authorization law expired. Here we are, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is open, but without asking us, without consulting us, without consulting us, I did. With his understanding, he used it with great carelessness, his authority to enforce the law. By the authority of the 23rd Assembly, the 24th term was opened, and dozens of arrangements were made. This attitude is completely antidemocratic, bossy, authoritarian. I'd like to condemn this attitude, this attitude. Look, there's a decree made in one law, and then that decree is changed three or four times by another law. Is it possible to accept such a thing? Is this a law state or an AKP subsidiary? You're going to make decrees without a plan, without a schedule, without a plan, and you're going to change them three or four times, and there's no way to accept that. Dear lawmakers, with decrees on this law, new administrative structures have been ignored by the basic values of the Republic of Turkey. The most typical example of this is in the Constitutional Court of Law 652, which changed the duties of the Ministry of National Education and the structure of the organization. Now, it is said in the previous law that generations who embrace the basic qualities of the Republic of Turkey, who embrace the principles and verses of Ataturk, learn the values of the Turkish nation, develop culture, will be raised. You see, none of this is in the law. No Ataturk, no Republic of Turkey, no Turkish nation. Would national education be national if that didn't happen? One of the main priorities of education is the national quality.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0294par0084	They're not in the material we're talking about?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0285par0085	Guys... it's obvious where we're seeing this. It's a matter of government existence, destruction. Dear friends, if the state exists, it will exist as a state of law. It doesn't matter if a treaty exists or not, if the state of law is being eliminated. If you're in some kind of behavior that can destroy the state, destroy it, it goes into that material, it goes into that material. If you'll excuse me, I'll give my speech, and we'll discuss the parts you don't like.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0295par0088	He doesn't know about the agenda.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0285par0089	We said I knew about the agenda, that we supported the law.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0295par0090	So tell me, let's find out.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0285par0091	My dear friends, let the children learn the values of the land they live in, the society they live in, the culture they live in, not strangers to their land, to their own people, to their people, to their nation, to their common values, to live together around common goals. What happens when you don't give these common values to children? Foreign generations grow to their own people, to their own people. The AKP wants children not to know their ancestors, their own republic, their own nation, intermediaries who can serve international capital; that's what they're asking. Dear lawmakers, most of the ruling under this law includes violations of today's Constitution. We're seeing this clearly. Now, what will come to the agenda after the decrees on the law that violates the Constitution, which ignores the values of the republic? The new Constitution will come, it'll even come. I'd like to ask: Will this new Constitution be in accordance with the decrees of this law, or will a new constitution be made to abide by this law against the Constitution? If you're predicting a new constitution, a new public storage facility, you give the shape of it in the constitution, then you build structures in accordance with the law. But what's the AKP doing? First, he's restructuring the public with executive decrees, and then he's going to make a proper constitution. Maybe he won't. We'll see about that. Mr. President, we, as the Republican People's Party, call it a new constitution, but we want a constitutional amendment to the autonomy of universities in favour of labour, in favour of freedom, in favour of democracy, in favour of independence of the judiciary, in favour of the forces, in favour of autonomy. What is the AKP's position on this matter?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0296par0095	It's the same.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0285par0096	The clues of this attitude came through a constitutional amendment adopted by a vote on September 12, 2010. The AKP then made constitutional changes and achieved its goal, without listening to anyone, with a single and sole goal of taking over the judiciary. What difference does it make now that the AKP will give up on this, make a constitution that will truly ensure judicial independence through compromise? Is that even possible? No way. Because the Prime Minister has made it very clear that at a much more recent time, he will not give up on judicial issues in these constitutional amendments. Mr. President, good lawmakers, constitutions are basic documents, documents that form the state. I built this basic structure, and if you try to change it with your understanding, you'll break the whole system. Dear friends, I won't be long. He laid out clues to AKP's new idea of public administration through a decree in accordance with the law on the Ministry of National Education. I think that understanding will be tried to dominate the new constitution. It is not possible to accept a constitutional amendment that ignores the Ataturk, the republic, and ignores the values of the republic. Unchanging, unchangeable materials are in the constitution of many countries; there are in Spain, Greece, Germany, Russia. In Germany, there is a change in the federal structure. In many countries, when the constitutional amendment comes to the agenda, it seems necessary to form a new parliament for this purpose. There's no way to accept that. With that understanding, there's no way he's getting anywhere. Dear friends, members of lawmakers, I salute our great Assembly with the desire that the treaty with New Zealand on air services develop peace and friendship between the two countries.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0297par0101	Thank you, Mr. Acar.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0298par0102	I'd like to make a statement on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0297par0103	You want word on behalf of the group. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0298par0105	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I didn't actually come out here with the intention of speaking on behalf of the group because we're still negotiating on the basis of a consensus that we've just had between political party groups, but our Speaker Congressman here is, I guess, our friend here, who I'm guessing is a member of the baron because he's always brought up issues about the bar. At the beginning of his sentence and at the end of his sentence, they expressed support for the agreement on New Zealand, and I thank you. But we need to know this clearly and clearly that yesterday, our Deputy Prime Minister, in response to a non-responsive speech, has made it clear and clear that he has the authority to issue a decree concerning the implementation of the law. The 91st article of the Constitution states clearly and clearly how the authority to issue a decree under the rule of law has been issued. The Government of the Republic of Turkey has given the authority to issue a decree in accordance with its authority from the 61st government and from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. All the authorities, who were not in power until the time of our rule, were authorized to come to power alone or be ruled by coalitions, to use a decree in the rule of law. In the nine-year period of the AK PARTI administration of the EC, there was no application for a decree under the rule of law, but in the event that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is going to the elections, it has again been approved to issue a decree on the law by the power vested by the 23rd Parliament from lawmakers to the 3rd century of November. See, dear friends, in the constitutional amendment of the public vote on September 12, 2010, the election system and structure of the Supreme Council of Judges Prosecutors has been changed. Before that, we had a Minister of Justice, you know, in his statement during this constitutional amendment process... that judges had become so... judges and prosecutors in the Supreme Council... that judges and prosecutors in the HSYK had set aside quotas for each other, a quota or two quotas in the Ministry of Justice. Who were they? Five people. What have we done now? With the votes of about 12,000 judges and prosecutors, 21 members of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors voted in secret. To become a member of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, he had the theoretical obligation to serve 12 years, practically 15 years. In the eighth year that we came to this power, it means that seven years before us, those who entered the profession of judges and prosecutors -- the CHP-MHP could have power, could have power in previous times -- were elected judges and valued members of the prosecutor's office before the establishment of the EC PARTI on August 14, 2001. You know, the Republican People's Party took the article on that election arrangement to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court changed that arrangement in a different way, and that's how it turned out. Dear friends, the 12,000 judges and prosecutors... and none of the 21 members of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors have begun their duties during the Justice and Development Party, and today you're putting those valuable members under criminal pressure today. But what is said politically, what is said is supposed to be the straightest, clearest phrases. Look, dear lawmakers, last time a friend of ours was talking to a friend of ours, he said, "Look, I'm telling the truth here, I'm not doing politics." What a bitter sentence, what a bitter way of meaning, what a different way of expression! Politics is a way for this nation to think about the best things for the welfare of this nation and find solutions. I'm sorry if you underestimate the work you do, the political institution, the political institution, you try to discredit the political institution, but no one will honor 550 MPs representing 74 million. One of the most important things that we have to do is to get elected by the helal vote, like the white milk of the mothers of 74 million. I don't think it's appropriate to make small remarks about the political institution by underestimating the reputation of the precious lawmakers who use sovereignty in the name of the nation in order to act in accordance with the will of the founding will. I wish this agreement to be a blessing, and I beg you, and I beg you, in the future, to continue this process, without hurting or hurting each other, without hurting or hurting each other, during the time of the agreement between the group's vice presidents. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0299par0116	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0300par0117	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0299par0118	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0300par0119	May I make a brief statement on behalf of the CHP Group? I can explain in two minutes.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0301par0120	Explain in the name of the person.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0299par0121	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0300par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Elitaş, I'd like to speak now to use time more efficiently. Let's remember this first, remember what we talked about in the past. When Mr. Cemil Cicek was Deputy Prime Minister, what did he say when he was negotiating the power code in the Plan and Budget Commission? The transcripts are there, you can go get them. He said: "There will be no regulation on the parliament and the presidency. When he received the authority to issue a decree, he promised that there would be no arrangement for parliament and the presidency, then he was Deputy Prime Minister. That's the first one. But today it's been arranged. The promise was not kept. Second, the scope of the law must be clear, it must be clear. The Constitution says. There's no clarity, two. You're forgetting what you said, three. Now look, the House is open, it's clear, actually the House is closed.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0302par0128	Don't, Mr. Slim. If the MPs are here, Congress is open.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0300par0129	It's closed. If the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is open and a government is issuing a decree on 34 laws while Turkey is holding talks on the Grand National Assembly, if it bypasses you, us, all of us, then Parliament is closed. That's the mindset of September 12th. He closed the House on September 12th, and you shut it down. September 12th was a lock, and you're keeping it open, but Congress isn't working. There is no difference between your logic and September 12th's logic when the House is open and there are 34 decrees in the law and you do not bring the decrees to the General Assembly immediately. I wanted to explain this, so I could use my time properly, use it less. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0303par0133	Thank you, Mr. Tünce.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0304par0134	Mr. President, I'd like to make a correction. I don't remember there being a decree issued on the legislature and the presidency, and it didn't come out. But right now, the Plan and Budget Commission is discussing a draft law on the staff of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. I don't know if that's what Mr. Slim meant.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0305par0136	If you examine the decree under 34 laws, you'll see it's out.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0304par0137	There's no regulation on the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0305par0138	Mr. Elitaş, since you're not the minister, I assume you're not following closely.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0306par0139	Thank you, it's on the record. On behalf of him, Ankara MP Emrullah Business. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Business.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0307par0143	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you all. This is my first speech in the House. I have made a personal pledge between the government of Republic of Turkey 21 and the government of New Zealand to ratify the agreement on air services. This agreement aims to further forward relations between the two countries in civilian aviation, boosting the international aviation system based on competition in the airspace and developing airways with innovative and competitive services. The agreement also aims to ensure security and security in international air transport by removing concerns about the public's actions and dangers that are being done against the security of air vehicles and endangering property with individuals, thus affecting civilian air transport negatively and damaging the safety of civilian aviation. Dear lawmakers, in recent years -- with Turkey -- our relations with New Zealand, as with all other world countries, are improving. In this context, when we look at relations between the two countries, we see that the Governor-General of New Zealand visited Turkey in 2009. During that visit, he attended the memorials at Çanakkale. In addition, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan visited New Zealand on 3-7 December 2005. Other than that, New Zealand Prime Minister Key visited Turkey in April 2010. In addition, the New Zealand Foreign Minister visited Turkey in 2008, 2010 and 2011. When we look at economic relations between the two countries, we see that our balance of exports and imports is in our favor. New Zealand is one of the countries that supports Turkey's temporary membership in the United Nations Security Council from 2009 to 2010. In 2010, New Zealand listed PKK/KONGRA-GEL. In September 2011, DHKP-C) as a terrorist group. Karma Economic Commission meetings between the two countries were held regularly and eight meetings were held from 1990. As a friend of yours, as a member of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I would like to make a brief mention of Turkish foreign policy. From time to time, our friends from the opposition have criticism of Turkish foreign policy, they have taunts, but I want to clarify certain issues by maintaining my style in accordance with the agreement. You know, Ataturk founded our republic and Ataturk was an Ottoman Pasha who had a vision of foreign policy as a bureaucrat raised by the Empire. In this direction, Ataturk led the Balkan Pact in 1934 with Balkan countries and five countries, including Turkey. Then, in 1937, he founded the Sadabat Pact with Iran and Afghanistan. So what we're getting out of this is that Ataturk had a vision, and it's clear to us that he intends to expand in foreign policy, to build pacts with neighboring countries. But these pacts, unfortunately, didn't work out on the terms of that day, and they soon ended. Couldn't such a pact be built with the Middle East and the Arab countries? When we look at it, we see that the conditions of that day are not available, and I'm afraid that on that day, Ataturk had failed to establish such a pact in his health or under the circumstances. Basically, Ataturk is the principle of peace at home. We have a principle here that is most critical, the policy of zero problems.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0308par0155	Where's the zero problem policy? Are we having zero problems right now? Do you know what zero means?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0307par0156	In fact, the zero problem policy is a different expression of what Ataturk said today in Yurtta.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0309par0157	Where do you do politics?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0307par0158	In this direction, we deal with the zero problem policy with our neighbors with precision.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0309par0159	Zero problem policy has hit the wall.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0307par0160	In 2002, when we came to power, Turkey had a fight with all its neighbours, but after we came to power, it was fast...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0310par0161	You made peace with Armenia, and made peace with Syria.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0307par0162	... Somehow we've solved our problems with all countries. Our foreign policy, friends... If you'll excuse me... There are no double standards in our foreign policy. We have principles, we have rights. We don't compromise our principles, we tell the truth to everyone. We talk to the United States as we talk to Arab countries, Islamic countries, and we talk to Western countries, and we don't double standardize anyone. Look, from time to time, word gets out, it says: "Zero problem policy has hit the wall, or some phrases have been used just because it's a problem. Look, guys, right now, there's only one country in the past that we've had a good relationship and are responsible for, and that's Syria, and that's not us. There is a temporary emergency in Syria. There's a regime right now that kills your people, makes your people vomit blood. With that regime, we can't be arm in arm.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0311par0165	Wasn't he killed a year ago?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0307par0166	Now, look...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0312par0167	Stop this literature! How much are the people divided into? Which one did you have?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0307par0168	Congressman, look, we're not friends of the regimes. Our allies are the peoples. We'll be allies with the neighboring people forever, and we'll have to associate with the current regimes in their environment.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0312par0170	How many people are there, group? Which group are you with? Stop with the literature.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0307par0171	Now, dear friends...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0312par0172	Stop with the literature.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0307par0173	Guys, you're gonna have to be patient. Look, we listen to you all the time, you're always picking on us. We're gonna have a little talk. Look, I spent five years...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0312par0175	There are also those who stand for Assad, and there are those who oppose Assad.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0307par0176	If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0313par0177	Congressmans, please listen. Listen, members of lawmakers, please... Go ahead.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0314par0179	Mr. President, you see the difference, don't you?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0315par0180	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0313par0181	Please continue.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0315par0182	Look, I'm speaking to you as a friend who's been at the top of active foreign policy for five years.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0316par0183	What part of the people are you talking about? Shame on you!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0315par0184	I know very well how this foreign policy works at the top, and look at us now... I came from Romania two days ago, where we were with businessmen at the Turkish Business Association.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0317par0185	Come to Syria!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0315par0186	You know what they told us? They say that now we can proudly carry our passport, show our passport to everyone.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0318par0188	Do you have a visa for Romania or not? Say it.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0315par0189	Look, also, Hungary, the neighbouring country, they said: "We were Hungarians before, we were Turkish noblemen." Why? Turkey was a weak country, so they were afraid to stand by the weak. But now they've stretched out their breasts, and we're Turkish royalty, from the Turkish race. They're using the expression. Our businessmen expressed it.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0319par0191	They said it in 2001, in 2001!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0320par0192	You still can't say Turkish, you say Turkish. Not as good as the Hungarians.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0315par0193	Dear friends, look, now, look, we said, we have principles, we have rights. Look, there was a crisis in Libya, we were primitive, we had 25,000 people there, we evacuated them first, and what did we do when the regime in Libya was in trouble, and what did we do as a country in the past? We gave them advice. Look, you're in trouble, so we said, "This is for the benefit of you and your people, if you do these things."
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0321par0194	It's not advice...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0315par0195	But unfortunately, they didn't listen to it, and three months later, we said what we said at the Gaddafi's son Seyfulislam's press conference, that we were ready for it. But it was too late.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0322par0196	Why doesn't the Prime Minister say that when he gets an award?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0315par0197	Likewise, in Syria, look, before the crisis broke out, we, as a friend, as an ally, kindly warned them with a friendly language, but unfortunately we couldn't get them to listen.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0323par0198	You had him killed, what warning?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0315par0199	Now look, friends, here's the expression that I'm getting hurt a lot: I can't blame no Turkish Republic government for taking orders from other people. It doesn't suit me. It's not appropriate for a Turkish person, a Turkish parliament.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0324par0201	Blame it if you have it!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0315par0202	But look here from time to time, especially a Deputy Director of the Group always says you've been instructed by the United States.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0325par0203	Praise be to God, that he went with Gaddafi, and Berlusconi.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0315par0204	Gentlemen, I want you to know that we are not taking instructions from anyone, and we are not attempting to give instructions to anyone. But we have the truth, we tell the truth, we give advice. And you can be sure that -- as an experienced friend of yours -- our advice is being referred to by a lot of countries today, and you should know that.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0326par0206	Name one neighbor who supports you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0315par0207	I wish the treaty to bring blessings to the two countries, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0327par0209	Thank you, Mr. Business.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0328par0210	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0327par0211	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0328par0212	When I was Deputy Prime Minister, I told Mr. Cicek in the Plan Budget that he had promised that there would be no arrangement for the presidency and parliament. Mr. Elitaş said there is no improvement in the law-ordered decrees regarding parliament and the presidency. I advise Mr. Elitas to read to him how the additional indicator of the Parliamentary Secretary General has been increased, as well as the Secretary General's Office in the 4th and 5th chapters of the Code of Law 666.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0327par0213	It's been filed, Mr. Tünce. Moving on to QA. Mr. Longhorn, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0329par0216	Mr. President, thank you. I'd really appreciate it if you'd give me a little more time for no further questions. Madam Secretary, as a member of the government, you're witnessing how long the Supreme Assembly has been having discussions about the decrees under the law. The general objection in the ordinances of the law is this: there are arguments here when the legislature is used as an exception, of course all governments need it, and the republic has always used its governments, but if the rule of law makes it a basis, then when the legislature by bypassing it makes it a basis, then there are arguments here, and that's not good for our democracy, and that's not good for the people's will. Secondly, the laws of the law must not be measured by numbers, the laws of the law must be evaluated in a more qualified way as content. If the decrees under the law are a structure that bypasses Parliament's will to change the state's structure, altering the institutional hierarchy, such rulings should be brought to parliament, and such discussions are in effect here. In this respect, as a member of the government, I ask you to inform the Council of Ministers that it is your right, of course, to use this psychology here as an exception, but that it is the right to be used as a basis for democracy, rather than as content, as content, as a quantity -- rather than a number -- as content in the rule of law. Thank you very much. We'd appreciate it if you'd consider it.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0330par0221	Thank you, Mr. Tallie. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0331par0223	Yes, my friend, who just spoke on behalf of the AKP Group, said Turkey is very successful in its foreign policy. And I'd like to ask, which countries of the world's countries have removed visas? Are these the countries we've already put in? Or has a visa been lifted with America, England, France, Germany, or Europe with a country the size of our city? Again, I don't understand what countries we get along with in Turkey, which has 13 neighbours. I don't know if we're getting along with Syria, Iran, Cyprus, Armenia, Bulgaria, Greece, what country. I'd be very happy if they could explain these as well. So we're following a foreign policy that started with zero problems, turned into zero relationships. Turkey is not supported by any of the world's institutions, it is not supported by a proposal brought by Turkey or by another country brought by Turkey. There's no other country with Turkey...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0330par0226	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Ashy...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0332par0228	Minister, civil aviation has made significant progress in our country over the past decade. Not only Turkish Airlines, but many private airlines have formed, surrounded the world with air bridges, both national borders and internationally. Our civilian aviation is moving rapidly towards becoming one of the key components of the 2023-leading country's Turkey's bid. What are our current investments targeted and targeted in this framework? Yours truly.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0333par0231	Thank you, Mr. Ashy. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0334par0233	Mr. Secretary, there's something we'd like to know about foreign policy. Are paramilitarian forces already in the territory of the Republic of Turkey preparing an armed action against neighbouring countries? If they are, are these forces within the knowledge of your government? If your government's knowledge is involved, does your government support groups of armed activists against neighbouring countries?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0333par0234	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0335par0236	Mr. President, thank you very much. Especially since three of these four problems are directly related to New Zealand. Sir, I don't believe there's anything to be said here if the warrant and the warrant were used under that authority. As a matter of fact...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0336par0239	We're not on the legal side of the issue, Mr. Secretary, politically.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0335par0240	As a matter of fact, it's mainly about administrative structures. As a government...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0337par0241	Go ahead, Mr. Secretary. Go ahead, Turkey will be very useful.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0335par0242	We can't go on because on November 3rd, the warrant is over.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0337par0243	No, no, go ahead.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0335par0244	We're bound by the law.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0337par0246	Then you will define what fascism is.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0335par0247	But now I'd like you to say a nice...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0337par0248	You'll be able to define what fascism is, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0338par0249	Congressmans, if you give me the authority again, the government will continue.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0335par0250	I listened to you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0339par0251	Please, Mr. Longneck. Please... Go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0335par0253	I listened to you in silence. You gave us advice, we thank you, we got these. But you have to see how he uses that authority here. If you look at all the ordinances well, you'll find that he's using them very rationally and efficiently. Look, I'd like to give you an example from my Ministry: there were 22 regional labour managers. We've turned these off. I believe we did the right thing because when our citizen in Edirne had a problem with his working life, he had to come to Istanbul, a citizen in Çanakkale, an employer of ours, had to come to Bursa. A citizen who suffered from pain had to go to Erzurum. He was moving with 22. Our citizens in the working life that were having problems, our employers. We've turned it off. What did we do? We called it the Department of Labor and Development and took care of everyone. I guess it's nothing wrong.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0340par0255	What's it got to do with the Code of Law?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0335par0256	I believe that if you had such a power, you would make such a rational, rational arrangement. I'm generally convinced it's the right way to think about it. For example, I'd like to give you another example: the Social Security Agency, as you know, is an important institution. We carried out a serious reform with friends who were already present in Parliament. There was a General Directorship here, such as the Office of Social Insurance, which addressed employees, active and passive, to such a large audience. We've made a change in the way that we're continuing the current General Directorate and the passives to the current General Directorate. I mean, everyone appreciates it, millions of people who are involved in the entire institution. These changes have been made, and they have been made under authority, in order to provide services in a healthier manner, to be presented faster. That applies to all of them. There's a problem with his qualifications, and you know there's no problem with authority, but we respect the opinion of our Congressman, and I want to say that we respect him. In foreign policy, if you pay attention, it is right to look at the situation in all matters and relationships, in the context of our country's right or wrong. In Turkey-Suriye relations, Turkey-Israel relations, has Turkey taken a stand directly on the side of relations with other countries as a problem, or has it taken a stand on a traditional perspective of wrong? If you look at it in this frame, the process has always shown how accurate we look. We'll see about that next semester. Turkey will demonstrate how accurate and primitive a foreign policy follows in the future. There's an important question about civilian aviation. Thank you, Metin Beye. Now, this is very comprehensive. They know that we have taken huge steps in land transport, air transport, and sea transport, our friends in all Parliament, who are in opposition to their power, all of the MPs who know that we're taking giant steps. If you ask them, how do they know? You're alive and you're using air transport, land and sea transport all the time, and I'm saying that since today, ten years ago today, it's the best that matters, and since those who use these routes know that there is no conflict, but we're going to give you detailed information in writing. It's a very different question -- and it has nothing to do with our day -- with an armed action force facing foreign countries in Turkey -- which is not within our knowledge, but if our Republican People's Party member has special information, he needs to talk to the relevant institutions of our state, but I would also like to point out that we have no understanding of a political party in this kind of knowledge or this kind of relationship, a government. I thank all the friends who ask all the questions.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0341par0263	Mr. President, since there's time, we can continue the questions.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0342par0264	Mr. Sakık, come in.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0343par0265	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary has made important, good statements. Yes, so in transportation, good things have been done for Allah, and we do not deny it. So, what's your project on freeing this country? I mean, all the arrests, you know, you know, you know, the interviews, the negotiations, are they going to be in the fight against terrorism, or are they going to be with special prosecutors? Anyway, if it's at this point, we've been going through this for years. So, besides this service, what is your project to free the country, to keep the peace? We'd appreciate it if you'd give us some information on that, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0344par0268	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0345par0270	Mr. Secretary, while I've got you, I'd like to ask you a few questions. You know, the Kopeeli region is famous for its industrial and organised industrial areas. Although my AKP friends have just made speeches about this parliamentary research proposal, these friends of mine don't know too much about Bigeli, since they spend their summer vacations in their own country, I find it useful to point out from here. Now what I want to ask you is that when there are so many industrial facilities in the Bigeli factory and in Hyundai factory that have been established in recent years, when workers work between $600 and $800 and work without the union, especially in Hyundai, I give them names -- there are unions in Ford, but when you work between $600 and 800, how are you going to have 3 children that the Prime Minister has recommended -- these children, these young industry-educated friends and colleagues who are going to be married, who are going to make three children, how are going to make three children, how are they going to make three children, how are they going to do that? I want you to explain that. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0346par0273	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0347par0275	Thank you very much. Minister, I'm really asking you, there's no TV, so it's just between us. We never question your justification for relations with Syria. You are opposed to the current regime with a number of human sensitivities, and we respect that as the Nationalist Movement Party, but since it is not clear what to do, how long are you going to continue this attitude? Can you predict if this results in a war with Syria? Let me tell you something else. The state of the Republic of Turkey has come to this point, fighting for 90 years. Now, do you admit that Turkey is facing such a possibility of fighting the policies you follow? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0348par0279	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. I'll take one more question, Mr. Secretary will answer the rest, we don't have enough time. Mr. Slim, come in.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0349par0282	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, it's my very clear question. What's wrong with the law? You don't have money? Question two: Why did you hire an officer for the SGK with the KPSS, and why was their appointment delayed? You did this before the election. What's keeping him? Why was the law passed to 2013? Is there really no money in the government vault?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0350par0285	Thank you, Mr. Slim. Mr. Kaplan, last but not least, I give you my word.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0351par0287	Mr. Minister, you are gathering the democratic opposition in Syria in Turkey, before which the government has gathered in Antalya. But in this democratic opposition, there is a group of Kurdish democratic opposition from fourteen to sixteen, whose numbers are close to 3 million, and for some reason you don't invite any of them. Neither Antalya nor finally was involved in the meeting in Istanbul. Are you Ihvani Muslim? So you're against Kurds all over the place? You have an organic connection to your ihvan-i-Muslim? That's because you're always calling on Ihvan Muslimin, the Muslim brothers. So do you have an organic connection to your party? Why the Kurdish hostility? There are sixteen different groups of Kurds in Syria, one of them is not close to you, so don't you have someone to see? Is this anti-Kurdishism you're doing in Syria because of Turkey, where Turkey's air hits? That's what I wanted to know.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0350par0289	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0352par0291	Sir, thank you. Now, first of all, let me answer the matter of my ministry. It has nothing to do with the money. Thank God we didn't have any cash problems in our vaults, in our Central Bank, and in all our economic activities. We took over from when there was a cash problem. That's not a problem today.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0353par0293	I'm not asking about your party's safe. I'm asking about the government's vault.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0352par0294	Now, as you know, we've explained the extent of our work on initiative, we're not making a frame of mind, we've shared it with the public. Since this is a file-based study, maybe in the first half of 2012, we'll be able to complete this file-based study. I mean, we need time, we need time. One case at a time. We're talking about a problem involving about 2.5 million pensioners. That's the kind of time you need, but the 2012 budget has been funded for that, and there's a lot of resources left. So, in 2012 or 2013, in the government programme, we said that we would gradually pay for it in this period, that we would stop this problem from being a problem. So this is not a question of money, but of the necessity of service and of the procedures in front of us that make it necessary. Sir, our relations with Syria are war... so we're following a primitive policy here. The modern world said what needed to be said about Syria, and so did we. We all see the way the public conduct, the way the public movement is going. Therefore, Turkey has never been a pro-war country, it has been a pacifist. As for the continuation of peace between the two countries, of course, Syria has to be a respectful state of international law and human rights. Turkey raises its voice in this way, because the brother Syrian people and all the brothers and sisters, all humanity is very important to us. On the other hand, I'm convinced that speaking of these Kurdish-Turkish distinctions doesn't make much sense anymore.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0354par0297	What's this fight about?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0352par0298	Kurds are our relatives, our neighbors, if they're out of bounds.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0355par0299	You're shutting them out!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0352par0300	Second, they're already citizens in our country.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0355par0301	But why are you exclusing it?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0352par0302	There's no problem with that. I also consider it unfair that the democratic opposition here against Syria should be judged in short sentences in such a short period of time. I'd like to point that out. There were two more questions, but...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0356par0305	Mr. Secretary, we haven't received any response.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0357par0306	The appointment of officers entering with the KPSS...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0352par0307	So the answer is, what didn't you get?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0356par0308	Why don't you call the Kurds to opposition meetings?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0352par0309	I mean, I'm not having an opposition meeting, but the world knows about Turkey's ownership of what's happening in Syria. So we stand for a democratic approach, a democratic approach to antidemocratic developments in Syria. It's not like we've checked who's in here, who's in here, who's in the right place, and let me put it this way.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0358par0310	You have a great contribution to the democratic life of Saudi Arabia, yes.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0352par0311	Now, the question of Sýrý Bey is, "It's very good to get up." Development, right, you admit there are roads, infrastructure, serious development in all areas, but development can only happen in free environments. If you agree to development in Turkey, then you also believe that Turkey has also been liberated and has come a considerable distance in the area of liberation. So I saw a contradiction in your question. If you say yes to development, then development can only happen in the free environment.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0359par0312	20,000 people were taken into custody, 4,000 people were arrested.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0352par0313	Turkey has also taken steps to be free, to be a free country, and to be democratic, and is moving quickly towards development. I'd like to point out that we're going to continue this in parallel. Sir, I know Bigeli very well. We have citizens who work in the family, who work at maximum wage, who work at minimum wage. Fortunately, the main opposition party did not work. He did not say, but expressed a low price.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0360par0315	Unemployment at 14 per cent in Kopeeli.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0352par0316	I believe that developing Turkey, this working Turkey, our working generations, our young people, will deserve higher wages in the coming process.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0360par0317	But there's no union.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0361par0318	Mr. Secretary, your time is up.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0352par0319	As long as everyone works. I'm proud to be a member of the government because our government provided that environment. Thank you so much, guys. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0361par0322	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0362par0326	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0361par0328	Yes, take turns writing.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0363par0329	Up and at 'em! Play a sport like this!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0364par0330	And we applaud you!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0365par0331	Relax, guys! There's no TV, relax, all of you! You've closed the channel, relax!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0366par0332	Mr. Tütin, please, it'll be easier if our friends tell us their names. That way, he'll go on the record.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0367par0333	Mr. Slim, Mr. Kören, Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0368par0335	Mr. President, you don't have to call!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0366par0336	I'm counting with the clerks, sir, to see if there's 20 of them.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0368par0337	So... they're sitting down. What are you counting, Mr. President?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0369par0338	Mr. President, they should be on their feet, but our deputies. ▪ They sit without saying, "Sit down. " All rise again, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0366par0339	Mr. Tül, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Yüceer, Mr. Bayraktutan... Yes, members of the law...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0369par0341	All you read will rise, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0366par0342	They just stood up, sir. I'm just saying their names.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0370par0343	But okay? They need to get up.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0369par0344	You'll get up again.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0371par0345	If it makes you happy, we'll get up.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0372par0346	Mr. Ören, Mr. Akar... Members of lawmakers, they just named the MPs themselves, they've filed the report. I asked them to say their names, they said their names while they were standing. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I hereby submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE PRODUCTION OF TURKEY COMMUNITY CONTINUES THE CONTINUATION OF AIR SURVIVATION IN THE INTERVIEW OF THE REPUBLICITY IN THE NEW ZELAN MADDE 1- (1) was approved of the Air Service between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of New Zealand, signed in Ankara on March 4, 2010. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Levent Gök. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0373par0364	Mr. President, I have made a pledge between the Turkish Republic and the New Zealand Government on Article 1 of the Dair Legislature that the Agreement for Air Services is appropriate. I salute you all with love and respect. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the agreement was signed between us and New Zealand on March 4, 2010. It has been on the agenda of our Parliament in the past period, but it has been nullified due to the end of the term. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this bill we're discussing may be one of the most recent deals we've come up with. There are four or five years before many of the deals we meet and meet. Why is this happening? We're bringing the agreements that we signed as the Republic of Turkey to our Parliament a few years after it was signed. I don't think that's acceptable logic. We bring agreements late to ratify them, and unfortunately we don't apply some of the terms of the agreements we've approved.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0374par0367	That's what happens when a deal lasts two days.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0373par0368	Look, my dear friends, we have a European contract for extradition of criminals. Now, I'd like to address your conscience a little bit. I believe a lot of the friends I know from the AKP Group have a conscience, but I think you'll be uncomfortable with what I'm about to tell you. My dear friends, you know, on July 2, 1993, the fire of the Madimak Hotel in Sivas, where two guests, including two children, young and intellectuals, were burned to death and drowned in smoke. According to police records, only 128 of these organized, reactionary activists, including 15,000, have ever been brought to trial. Vahit Kaynar was one of them. Vahit Kaynar has been sentenced to death for the attempt on the republic's regime at the end of the trial, which has been ratified by the Supreme Court. Due to the suspension of the death penalty, the sentence has been reduced to a aggravated life sentence. Mr. President, after news of Vahit Kaynar's capture in Poland a while ago, those who have lost their relatives in the incident of Sivas and public opinion are in great expectation that he will be extradited to Turkey as soon as possible. This is exactly what Vahit Kaynar's rational decision states: "Resignation to the governor, who is his representative of the state and the government!" Mr. President, everyone's expectations are that Vahit Kaynar be brought to Turkey immediately, while unfortunately, according to Article 16 of the European Convention on Restitution of Criminals, the Ministry of Justice, which does not consider the fact that the detention period is forty days in custody, has led Vahit Kaynar to be released in Poland, not delivering documents related to the person mentioned to the Polish authorities during his time. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are undisputedly the age of communication, the age of technology and the age of transportation. Now, which one of you, the esteemed MP, can express to me this and say, "My conscience is comfortable?" Despite the fact that he has been convicted and has been arrested, the Republic of Turkey has been unable to remove a convicted prisoner from Poland and bring him to Turkey for 40 days. As he couldn't bring it, this person can be released because he didn't perform these procedures in 40 days. Now, can we talk about having a clear conscience here? I'm sure you're all uncomfortable with this. My dear friends, what kind of work is this? Vahit Kaynar, all his papers must be ready. Forty days is a long time in our time. What will prevented this person from being brought here from Poland? Shouldn't that be explained? Shouldn't that make sense to us, my dear friends? I speak to your consciences: Aren't the ones who have lost their relatives in Sivas, the ones who have stolen reeds, the ones who have lost their children, the ones who have returned to the Samah, destroyed once more today? Is our government that weak? Of course not, but Vahit Kaynar was not asked to be brought to Turkey, just as Jafar Erçakmak was not caught. You know, one of the number-one suspects in the Sivas incident was that Jafer Erçakmak had also lived in Turkey and died in Sivas. Turkish security forces couldn't catch Jafar Erçakmak. But when he died, we were all informed that Jafar Erçakmak was in Turkey when we went from the graveyards and removed him from the archives. Now, valuable lawmakers, as it turns out, it's not enough to make the deals, but we need to apply them literally. I'm sure you're all uncomfortable with what I'm telling you. Now, to ease our consciences, I have a humble suggestion for you. We're talking about the Justice Department budget at Plan and Budget Commission upstairs, and that's where our Minister of Justice is. I'm going to walk out of here right now and ask the Attorney General these questions personally, but I want our friends with a guilty conscience to come with me, and we'll all ask our Minister of Justice and we'll find out the truth from him. This is a bleeding wound. Unfortunately, a mindset that cannot bring a convicted, convicted prisoner who has been arrested abroad to Turkey must explain this to our consciences in a very satisfying way. My conscience bleeds about it, and the conscience of those who have lost their relatives in Sivas. They will be in great sorrow. Let's all take care of this wound together and ask the Minister of Justice that question upstairs. I think our AKP MP friends have a conscience in this matter. That's why I want to go with you when we leave. Let's all discuss the truth and get a satisfactory response from the Minister of Justice. On this occasion, I salute you with love and good evening to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0375par0379	Thank you, Mr. Sky. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır. Here you go, Mr. Şandir.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0376par0383	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I give you my regards. We, the National Movement Party Group, agreed on Thursday that we would not talk about these two international contracts in hopes that we would contribute to the end of the debate and tensions that were going on from yesterday to the day before, and by not speaking, we were hoping that we could create an atmosphere of reconciliation in our Assembly General Assembly, but it is not possible. I'm still going to continue our decision to not speak as the National Movement Party Group in this and the next two international contracts. I hope there will be a compromise between groups in the Assembly General Assembly, and I hope that the approval of these very routine international contracts will happen quickly, at the speed of our past example, with a compromise. But as an opposition party, I think you should agree that we have a obligation not to fall behind in the opposition. I hope you'll agree with us at this point. Now, the reason I'm taking a statement is because in the previous session, in the talks on all of them, one question I asked Mr. Secretary has been cleared up, and the answer has been made clear, and it's about Syria. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, of course, the televisions are not available, and I have been promised to give you an update on the relevant members of the General Assembly, who are concerned about the matter. Many of our friends in the General Assembly know that I have special reason to talk about Syria because I am the president of the Inter-Suriye Parliamentary Friendship Group, which has not yet been established, and I am the first founder of this friendship group to be formed for the first time in 2000. Besides, I was born in Syria, and most of my family lived in Syria. So, I'm very interested in developments in Syrian relations with Turkey, and I'm very interested in the matter, and I share my concerns with you. I have some information that I have submitted to the relevant agencies of our government, the ministers of our government. I'm not going to present them here, but the information that is the source of my concerns is here... the answer to the question I just asked, of course, if that's the case, what will the Minister say! But just to be clear, I'd like to share with you the information that feeds the question and the answer. Dear friends, relations with governments, political governments, governments can be corrupted. Trade can be corrupted, politics or world conjunctive, which may be necessary, but the enmity of the peoples and the peoples is a very dangerous event. Especially if we live next door to a border that reaches 500 miles [800 km], and we've been together for about a thousand years, and we've been together in many ways, Syria, it's important to really care about the danger. Relationships between states are good and bad, and that's the way it is today, and things are good tomorrow, but if enmity between peoples is rooted, believe me, after a while, it's genetic, and you can't be friends anymore. Now, let's not kid ourselves, but in order to defend the rights of the Syrian people, with the statement of Mr. Minister or the statement of Mr. Prime Minister, or just as Mr. Speaker of the ruling party, we oppose the Syrian administration in accordance with a principle. My family, my brothers and sisters, live in Lazkiyah, and we have very close relations with Syria, at the level of parliamentarians, at the level of businessmen, at the level of government executives. I've been president of the Friendship Group, and that's what they're telling me. So the reaction of the Syrian people against Turkey must be taken into account by those who run Turkey. We may be in a fight with those who rule the Syrian state, but our friendship with the Syrian people will quickly break down in the event that this conflict puts the people of Syria in a sense of humiliation, and the result of this corruption can result in the punishment of some 3 million people who live in Syria today, who call themselves Turkishmen. Turkey doesn't have much of a countermeasure against it. At this point, I have to say, what I'm really worried about is that I'm concerned about the future of those who run Turkey. There's no way we can make sure our contacts get to where we're waiting. So, Mr. President of Syria, by scaring, convincing, or whatever, there's no way we can get him to take a stand for human rights, democracy. Such a process has already been overcome. He'll remember, Mr. Elitaş, on April 6, 2011, before the Parliament took a vacation last year, I warned the government again, again, there had been fifteen days in Syria, and I said, "Shortly, Mr. President, the Prime Minister must go to Syria; he must convince the rulers, encourage them, encourage them, encourage them, and do these reforms because the conditions of Syria are very heavy." There's a president in Syria who wants to transform, to change, but there's a structure from the past that has no power. If Turkey doesn't support it, there's no chance it'll ever take a step towards democracy again. I warned the government at the time, and I said, let's go fast, before things got to this point, but then he didn't predict it, unfortunately he didn't. We lectured from here, we advised, we advised, we advised. We have to predict that these won't be enough. Now I'm worried again. So if there's no way that we can convince the Syrian government, there's no way that we can, and how far are you going to take this as a continuation of this behavior that you started today? How far will you take your policies, described as the subcontractor of America, as some authors say? So if the Syrian government continues its position, as a defender of the Syrian people, the Republic of Turkey will continue its step today, withdraw it? Mr. Ambassador is sitting there, not bluffing in foreign policy. So what are you gonna do? In our dealings with Israel, look, we are in a very bad situation. We were supposed to send our fleet along with the ships, and we couldn't. They took two ships to Gaza, and we couldn't do anything. So what do we do? When the state of the Republic of Turkey says a word, it must not back down from it. What do we do now? I repeat: I mean, if the Syrian administration continues to take this position, then Turkey, you know, if it has to carry on what it says, like putty out of a tube, will we declare war on Syria, precious government, the precious ruling party group? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm at the end of the line. The state of the Republic of Turkey has been fighting for 90 years, not participating in wars, not interfering in regional and world problems as a soft force, not interfering in intervention, and has made it flourish today in terms of its own peace in the country, in terms of the principles of jihad. We cannot protect Turkey or secure the future by interfering with the world's problems, with the problems of the region. So I don't make it polemic, like, a zero problem policy on Syria, or whatever. But the point is, it's too dangerous. Problem with Israel, problem with Iran, problem with the Greek Cypriot administration, another problem with Bulgaria at the door, another problem with Armenia, in front of Turkey, I'm afraid, because, I'm afraid, there's a conflict coming, a conflict that we're not responsible for, we're not. Now, if you can't predict that, if you can't predict that possibility...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0377par0395	Please complete your statement, please.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0376par0396	Thank you, sir. Dear lawmakers, you bear a responsibility to this Parliament, which is responsible for presenting the future, and each one of you is responsible for the nation you represent. You can't stand by and watch Turkey's future be threatened by decisions made by political power. That's our concern. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we insist that Syria is the key stone of the Middle East. If Syria is unstable, the entire Middle East will fall into chaos. We can't fix that chaos, we can't afford it. For him, an outside intervention in Syria, especially outside Turkey, will result in very bad results in the Middle East, and Turkey will suffer the biggest damage. I asked you that question to draw your attention to the reconsideration of these policies, and the answer will be yes, but it demands that you consider it, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0378par0401	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. No word on the subject. Moving on to QA. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0379par0405	Mr. President, I'd like a word on my own behalf.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0378par0406	I've moved on to the QA. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0379par0408	I'll leave that flashlight here.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0378par0409	Mr. Young, I didn't call you to the stand.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0379par0410	Didn't you promise?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0378par0411	No, I didn't, sir, I went to question-and-answer, and you requested it. It's expired for him. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0379par0412	No, sir, I said: I want a word on behalf of the person. Now, Mr. President, you are in a constant position specifically to keep me from talking. I wanted a personal word.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0378par0413	What makes you say that, Mr. Young?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0379par0414	But you have that attitude.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0378par0415	No, I said I'm on the QA, we're on the QA, Mr. Young, please, you're very welcome.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0379par0416	Yeah, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0378par0417	Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0379par0418	Mr. President, I would like to express the color of my vote against you. Against you!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0378par0419	Okay. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0380par0421	Mr. President, thank you. I have a question for the Minister. You know, a new airport is being built in Yenice, 18km from Adana Shakirpaşa Airport. Now we all want to build an airport in Mersin, but it would be more appropriate if this airport was built between Silifke and Mersin. When we said this, we were told that the runway in Adana was not available for the landing of large aircraft, but due to false permits issued by the Justice and Development Party Seyhan Municipality, the buildings were declared to have prevented the landing of aircraft in Adana, and a number of NGOs from Adana, along with the visit of our Minister and Minister of the Governor, were instructed to extend the Adana track by order of the Minister. Now, the Yenice Airport, built 18km from Adana, is said to cost about $4 billion. Will this track be extended? Is that between the lips of a minister?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0381par0425	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Dear Light...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0382par0427	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as it is known, the policy, which has been launched recently under the name Zero Trouble with neighbours, has now turned into a non-problem neighbor today. How many of our companies are owned by Turkish citizens in countries such as Tunisia, Egypt, Libya, Yemen and Syria, affected by the Arab spring wind? Our companies, with real and corporate personalities, have been damaged, and what measures have been taken or taken by your government to compensate for their economic losses? I'd appreciate it if you could explain. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0383par0431	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0384par0433	Mr. Secretary, I believe that the peace in Yurtta is the common desire of all lawmakers who serve in this parliament. In your earlier statement, you mentioned that you had no knowledge of paramilitary forces planning an armed action against neighbouring countries in Turkey. Interviews by commanders of armed forces stationed in Turkey have been published in the prestigious newspapers and television institutions of England. I wonder if your government knows about these publications. If your government is aware of these publications, have the details of this report been investigated? Are there paramilitary forces like this in our country? As a result of your research as a government, did you conclude that all of these publications were illegal? Or are you unaware of the broadcasts? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0385par0436	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0386par0438	Mr. Secretary, in the Constitution referendum, you know, there were 26 clauses, but many of my friends don't know 24 other articles except two. One of them was the right to belong to two unions. Does Turkey have this practice? Where are the two unions, the same person who joined the two unions? Is there an example now? Still, what do you say about the dissolution of the labor of 6 million workers in Turkey, 550,000 of them union workers, due to unionisation? What kind of precautions are you taking?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0385par0439	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0387par0441	Mr. Secretary, we have two hospitals at the Butler. The first is SEC Hospital -- which is currently an obstetrician -- and the second is Butler State Hospital. Instead of handing these two hospitals over to the TOKI, there were 650 beds -- the capacity of our two hospitals -- where a 400-bed hospital was built. The location of these two hospitals is very valuable, and we've learned that by handing them over to our two central hospitals, the location will be converted into a shopping mall and a dwelling. There is a protocol between the TOKI and the Ministry of Health. In this regard, is there a cancellation of this protocol? Will our hospitals continue, and will they continue? Or are we going to tear down our hospitals at the center and build a mall there? Is it going to continue to give someone a run?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0385par0442	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0388par0444	Thank you, Mr. President. TOKI is one of our important institutions. THE allocation of various public lands in terms of supplying to the TOKI (TİKİ) is an extremely accurate decision. Because such healthy decisions have been implemented, TOKI has fulfilled 500,000 dwellings. If there's no such thing as a SEC hospital in our Butler county, you know, the AK PART, the hospitals have all been merged. I guess that's what you're calling it now.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0389par0446	I said it's for obstetrics.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0388par0447	The location of two hospitals can be transferred. If you need a hospital with 400 beds, I think it's a very rational, very healthy approach.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0389par0448	It went from 650 to 400.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0388par0449	If you'll excuse me... look, you're the servant's MP. So you can know them in detail locally, but I'm saying something in general. The places where these lands are being transferred are not a matter of Rant. These lands are being handed over to the public, to the TOKI. There is a new hospital that is needed in this way -- a hospital with 400 beds -- in your statement -- which is a very healthy approach. The Ministry of Health would expect a healthy approach.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0389par0451	Is it right to reduce 650 to 400, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0388par0452	If there's a need... look, if it's 650...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0389par0453	1,500, 1. 500 beds needed.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0388par0454	Sir, if 1,500 is what it needs, we're also doing city hospitals as power. We will make the servant a hospital with 1,500 beds. But if the Health Department approves of a 400-bed hospital, that's the result of a calculation. That's what I'm trying to say, but let's introduce the details in writing. Sir, we've made a legal arrangement to become members of two unions. We have the opportunity to become a member of the unions, although the Republican People's Party did not support it.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0390par0456	Don't!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0388par0457	We carried out this arrangement.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0390par0458	Don't do so much! You'll be amazed!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0388par0459	He's a member of two trade unions, you know, which could result in one person working in different businesses. I believe that the union regulations...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0390par0460	No, Mr. Secretary, but tell me the truth. There's no such thing, so there's no such thing. Why do you say that when it's gone?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0388par0461	The next process will soon be in accordance with the Constitution.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0390par0462	No, can you give me an example? One at a time! Oh, come on!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0388par0463	Look, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Süleyman.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0390par0464	No, you're the Minister. But tell the truth, you are the Minister of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0388par0465	Laws of compliance with the Constitution are coming. These laws will pass through here.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0390par0466	That's something else.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0388par0467	The union's gonna pass. Again, here we will meet 2821 and 22, a product of September 12th. After the law of harmony, I believe the union activity in Turkey will become much more active after its release from the shackles.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0390par0468	That's one thing, but right now, no one has the right to join two unions.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0388par0469	As for the other thing, sir, it's a foreign-country-looking, foreign-issued gun... and I don't think it's right for a congressman to read foreign newspapers and not believe in the government of the Republic of Turkey and to fund the foreign paper. The government is making a statement, in this regard, both our State Department and I are expressing that there is no such thing...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0391par0470	Did you repeat it, sir?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0388par0471	But you, not your own resources, will consider foreign resources, and yours is the credit. Sir, zero questions with the neighbors, how many companies do you have... it's a matter we need to answer in writing, Mr. Alim. Hopefully, we'll present this in detail, in writing. There's a question about the expansion of Silifke Airport and/or Adana Airport. Between the minister's lips, of course. The minister is an executive minister. What a minister says at the executive point, what he says about investment, it's not random, so in an affinity, an executive minister doesn't say anything, there's always feasibility, there's work, there's a plan, as a product of a project, the minister...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0392par0474	That was the motive for six months. Do you do 18 kilometers of airports?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0388par0475	Mr. Minister of Transport will make a statement. Besides, budget talks are coming up. It's so colorful here, it'll be discussed. You can ask our fellow minister here about that. Sir, about the problem with the neighbors...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0393par0477	Last minute, sir, last minute...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0388par0478	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me in a minute... Now, Syria is our neighboring country, a country of relatives. It's a country on the way to trade, for us -- as you've expressed -- on the way to trade. What we will be concerned about today is that Syria's administration is linked to terrorism under these developments, which is a sensitive issue for Turkey. It is important to Turkey that developments in Syria do not become a civil war. In the face of a painting like this, a refugee could bring up the flood, which was relatively similar. These are the events that Turkey is thinking about putting in front of it. Now, we can't side with the Syrian administration, who doesn't choose for democracy, who doesn't do for human rights. Of course we'll side with the Syrian people, so there's no other way. Did Turkey do anything about it? He did. At the highest level, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, our Secretary of State, all of our technocrats, have repeatedly told Syria that this is not the course of action, that it is not true and that Turkey has the right to resolve this matter.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0393par0480	Time's up, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0388par0481	That's my last word, sir. ... that he will use all his savings very clearly, even though he has committed to Syria's administration, if he has not taken a step towards human rights and democracy, I would like to express that there is no other way out than to side with the public. Finally, of course, the Arab Union Parliament on these issues is coming to Istanbul in the coming days, where Turkey will host large assessments of countries in the region, peoples in the region. Turkey is in contact with all dynamics in the region. We are not happy that the neighbouring country is driven into chaos because we are aware that chaos there will have serious repercussions for Turkey. But even though we insist on a government, despite the suggestions and recommendations of the whole world, what we call a neighboring country, the leaders call each other brothers, and in that sincerity say we will not withhold all our contributions, all our help, you will still take a stand here if the pressure and violence continue.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0394par0484	What are you going to do?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0395par0485	Mr. Steel, your time is up.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0388par0486	See, the attitude you take is important whether it's for right or for right.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0396par0487	Are we going in?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0388par0488	If it is directly and directly for the people and the right, what will be the end of it? The end will be just, and the people will win. I'm in that faith. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0397par0490	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0398par0491	Mr. Secretary, what's the next step?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0399par0492	Are you coming in?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0397par0493	Talks on Article 1 have been completed.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0400par0496	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0397par0498	Before voting on Article 1, the request for a roll call has come in. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, who have requested attendance and have their names read, please take their seats.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0401par0500	Mr. Tün, Mr. Kören, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Demirçlı, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Yüceer, Mr. Aydemir...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0402par0501	Erdemir.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0397par0502	Erdemir.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0401par0503	Mr. Slim must have written it wrong. Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Ozgim...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0403par0505	If you're going to sit on that bench, you're going to recite them.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0401par0506	Mr. Akar, Mr. Straight...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0403par0507	I'll make you eat that because they gave you that podium microphone!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0401par0508	Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Cloud, Mr. Özpolat, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Special...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0403par0509	I'll make you eat that!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0404par0511	Look at the guy who's gonna make you eat the mic!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0401par0512	Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0405par0513	Mr. Akar is here too. I'll give you three minutes to roll call.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0406par0516	Mr. President, would that be a statement? He says he'll take care of it. What are you feeding him?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0407par0517	Even if I misspelled it, you shouldn't say it like that.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0406par0518	Mr. President, what's he feeding you? Is that even possible?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0407par0519	I'll teach you!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0406par0520	Is there such a thing that can feed a microphone?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0408par0521	Congressmans, please... Mr. Slim, please...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0406par0524	You can't even keep up with your clerks. He's gonna feed you the microphone. Is that even a thing?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0409par0526	Apologise, sir, apologize to the Councillor.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0410par0527	Mr. Slim, please remain calm.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0406par0528	You don't take care of your clerks.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0410par0529	Mr. Slim...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0406par0530	Mr. President, they're insulting your clerk.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0411par0531	The mistake the clerk made.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0410par0532	Mr. Tütin, please behave properly.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0406par0533	You insult your clerk, you don't say anything.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0411par0534	He can't do that!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0406par0535	He's going to feed the microphone!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0411par0536	He says it's misspelled, so he's making politics out of it.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0412par0537	Mr. Slim...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0406par0538	Mr. President, why don't you look after your clerk?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0412par0539	We'll take care of it, sir. Don't worry.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0406par0540	He's feeding her the microphone.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0413par0541	I said, "How do I feed a friend on the Presidential Court?" I said, "I'll feed him the microphone."
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0406par0542	Mr. President, he's going to feed the microphone!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0413par0543	I thought I'd make you eat that.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0414par0544	Mr. Slim, can you hear me?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0406par0546	Mr. President, he needs to apologize to the clerk.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0414par0547	Congressmans, please calm down. Mr. Slim, can you hear me?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0415par0549	I hear you, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0414par0550	Please, we'd like an apology for what you just said as a Court.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0416par0551	He needs to apologize.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0415par0552	Mr. President, I'll die. Don't bother. I won't do that.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0416par0553	Mr. President, he needs to apologize.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0415par0554	Before he apologizes to me, Mr. Clerk apologizes to me.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0416par0555	Mr. President, you're not taking care of the deputy next to you. Mr. President, you're not protecting the clerk.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0417par0557	Congressman, please don't keep yelling, I don't understand why you're yelling.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0416par0558	You didn't say anything when he was yelling!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0417par0559	Why are you shouting? Please don't shout, I don't understand. (Voice breaking) Please remain calm. Mr. Slim, please, for a word that is beyond your means...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0418par0561	Mr. President, the Clerk has to know the MPs, and I don't have to write the paper.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0419par0563	For God's sake!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0418par0564	Yes, he does. Learn to do your job, learn to do your job. The Clerk's MP...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0420par0565	Sit down, we're sitting down.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0418par0566	Look, I'm not gonna be scared when I get up!
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0421par0568	Congressmans, what are you doing, please calm down.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0422par0569	Mr. President, you can't run the House like this. A group of vice presidents are insulting the Parliamentary Court, insulting all MPs. What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0421par0570	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0422par0571	This is the Capitol, not a threat.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0423par0572	Mr. President, the Clerk has to know the MPs, it's his duty to know the MPs.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0424par0573	He has no right to insult the clerk, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0425par0574	Congressman, please don't shout, we know how to manage.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0423par0575	I don't have to give you a piece of paper, the moment we stand up, the names are called, and our friend here... I wrote it down on paper to make it easier for you. So let's say I write it instead of Erdemir, let's say I write it like this, and it requires this: I'm sorry, it's wrong. It's called, but it's because of our friend's youth he wrote it wrong.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0426par0576	What's the big deal?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0427par0577	What's the big deal?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0423par0578	He can't say it, and if he says it, I'll make him eat it... he can't.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit03spe0428par0581	There's not enough of a meeting. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute recess.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit04spe0428par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 20th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The meeting was not enough in the roll call before the first draft of the 21st Amendment was voted. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[The electronic device started the inspection.]] Congressmans, our Clerk Member did not make that statement in order to hurt Mr. Tüzyin. He made such a statement to correct something. There is no purpose for him. Mr. Tünce did not make such a statement to hurt or offend you. Let's ask you a favor, we'll turn on your microphone, and if you'll just make up your mind... Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit04spe0429par0009	Thank you. Why doesn't Mr. Muhammad Bilal Macit say so, Mr. President?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit04spe0428par0011	You know, sir, our rule is that clerks don't say things like that, they don't say things like that, they don't say things like that. You know, I'm making a statement on their behalf on the Court, and I'm saying their thing. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit04spe0429par0013	Mr. President, has the Clerk made such a statement to you?
tbmm-2011-11-17sit04spe0428par0014	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit04spe0429par0015	Okay. If the Clerk has made such a statement to you, the problem has already been resolved. Then the words I'm saying are out of context. Mr....
tbmm-2011-11-17sit04spe0428par0018	Mr. Slim, go ahead, please. Yes, I'll take your word for it.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit04spe0429par0019	If Mr. Clerk has made such a statement to you, if you have made this statement on his behalf as Acting Speaker, then what I've made is beyond meaning, beyond meaning, beyond purpose. Then I'll have to take back what I said.
tbmm-2011-11-17sit04spe0428par0021	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Tünce. [[Investigation continued with electronic device]] Members of parliament, since the second roll call did not find enough meetings, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (November 22nd 2011) to discuss other tasks from the Commission in order of the draft and proposals by verbal question motions. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
