tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the Central Management Budget Bill of 2012 and the Central Management Computation Bill of 2010. Under the schedule, we'll have two rounds of interviews today. The eighth round includes the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, Ministry of Industry and Trade, the National Productivity Centre, Small and Central Development and Support Administration, Turkish Accreditation Agency, Turkish Institute of Standards, Turkey's Institute of Scientific and Technological Research, Turkish Academy of Sciences, the Ministry of Defence, the Defense Ministry budgets. (x) 87 and 88 S. The Numbered Basmazes and Funding Cetves are added to the 31st Article of the 31st Union dated 08/12/2011. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Members of parliament must write the passwords to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour until the end of the talks, and then press the promise-seeking button on the screen after presenting their fingerprints. It's for your information. Congressmans, I'm reading the names of the members of the group and their individuals in the eighth round: On behalf of their group: Republican People's Party: Hasan Ören, Manisa MP; Mehmet Ali Sesam, İzmir MP; Reza Turmen, İzmir MP; Ahmet Toptaş, Afyonkarahisar MP; Veli Ağbaba, Malatya MP. Peace and Democracy Party: İbrahim Binici, Şanlıurfa MP; Demir Çelik, Mush MP; Husamettin Zenderlioğlu, Bitlis MP; Sırrı Sakık, Mush MP. AK PARTI: Abdullah Nejat Koçer, Gaziantep MP; Orhan Karasayar, Hatay MP; Bkent Turan, İstanbul MP; Mehmet Ali Okur, Kopeli MP; Nurdan Şanlı, Ankara MP; Ömer Selvi, Niğde MP; Pelin Günş Baker, Kayseri MP; Gülay Dalyan, İstanbul MP; Fevai Arslan, Düzce MP; Murat Yıldırım, Körum MP. Milliyetçi Movement Party: Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu, İzmir MP; Reşat Yakcı, Tokat MP; Celal Adan, İstanbul MP; Koray Aydın, Tripoli MP. On the other hand, Ahmet Berat Çonkar, İstanbul MP; on the other hand, Lütfü Türkkan, Kobeeli MP. Members of parliament, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the first word in the eighth round is Hasan Ören, MP of Manisa. Here you go, Mr. Kören. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0002par0057	Mr. President, I have been promised to express my views on the Republican People's Party Group over the budgets of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I salute you all. Dear MPs, I watched the Minister of Finance's budget speech, and he drew us a pink picture from this bench so that I couldn't help but ask myself, "Do we live in the same country or do we live in another country?" It's like the economy is good, the business is good, the unemployment is down, the tradesman, the artist is happy, the peasant is happy, the industrialist pays his debts, pensioners are saving their wages, living on minimum-paying $599! Then it is necessary to ask the Minister of Finance: Why, citizens, in an economic crisis, are young people unable to find work, teachers cannot be appointed, and why do you raise taxes? If the economy is going well in Turkey, why do you forgive SEC, BUG-KUR bonuses every two years under the law? My dear friends, I also looked at the Minister's speech from the transcripts. In a one-and-a-half-hour speech, Mr. Secretary pronounced the word "vergi" 24 times, using the word "euro" 14 times, the "dolar" 15 times, and the Turkish lira twice. The word "budget deficit" was used 20 times, "inflation" 18 times, "borrowing" 33 times, "carried" four times. In contrast, he used the words "esnaf" and "worker" only once, when he did not utter the words "industrial" or "industrial" or "industrial" or "industrial" or "industrial." This shows that the 2002 budget will be a debt, interest and tax budget. Because production, investment, employment statements have never been included. Support for the 2012 budget is $8.2 billion, which is earmarked for trade interest support, agricultural interest support, export support, SME support, incentive payments and employer bonus support. Only 2.4 per cent of the budget is earmarked for all these parts. With all this resources, there's no way to invest, create employment, keep the farmer, the tradesman alive. My dear friends, as they say, the economy is not going well in Turkey. There's a problem with all our friends coming here. The nine-year-old AKP ruling has become a habit of vilifying the republic nine years ago, the minister of the Justice and Development Party on the stand has become a habit of lawmakers, but when we don't get the opportunity to compare 2002 to nine years of your life, all the televisions have taken off their shirts, and the TVs have not taken off their shirts, and you have them with you. If with your sense of advanced democracy, you've managed to align them with the stick you've got and a few TVs against you. Now, I want to give you the numbers fast. You know, he's always on the stand and you've been saying about the rest of the republic when you came to power in 2002. So December 2002, when the AKP came to power, the state's debt was $148.5 billion.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0003par0063	What's the GDP rate?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0002par0064	In December 2011, during your nine years of power, you raised it to $310 billion. Public debt per person, $2,249 in an inflationary period you don't like. You raised your public debt to $4,200 per person.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0004par0065	Tell me what happens to each other.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0002par0066	The stockpile of domestic debt is 149.9, 150 billion liras as of December 2002. You've raised the stockpile of internal debt to 362 billion dollars as of 2011. The foreign debt of the private sector: the foreign debt of the private sector was 43 billion dollars when you received it. In nine years, the private sector's external debt has gone up to 202 billion dollars. Yeah, they did good. They found money on the outside, they invested in Turkey, they cut jobs! You can say that, but you can tell me if the job is down.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0005par0068	They raised it.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0002par0069	See, friends, average unemployment rate from 1988 to 2002, the unemployment rate from that republic you don't like is 8%. The unemployment rate in nine years is 11.2. If 200 billion dollars came from the outside, private sector came up with money, invested, then is it possible to understand 11.2-year unemployment? Cari trading deficit is 0.6 billion dollars as of 2002, 600 million dollars. You're so successful you can't help but wonder in the economy! As of the end of the year, at the end of 2011, the current transaction deficit is $60 billion, so it's 100 times that. Fifty-two years on the open, open $43.7 billion in 55 years of republican history, $290 billion in nine years. Eighty-eight years of foreign trade deficit, 247 billion dollars, nine years you've accomplished, you've done it -- I don't know how you're going to tell it -- $499 billion. My dear friends, if the economy is good, the industrialist, his worker, his employer, must pay their checks smoothly. As of December 2002, Turkey has 733,000 bad checks. You're so successful that the economy is going smoothly, and by the end of 2009, the number of bad checks is 1 million 911s. When the number of procedural bonds was 0.8 million, it went up to 5.8 billion with your success and skill. And that's the most important thing, so in 2002, society's debt to all banks in this country is 6 quadrillion 600 billion, 6,600 million with new money. The consumers' debt to the bank has increased to 180 quadrillion, thanks to you, 180 billion.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0006par0075	Everyone bought a house, everyone bought a car; they didn't used to.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0002par0076	That's why people are unhappy, so all our citizens are running from bank to bank to pay their credit cards.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0006par0077	Everybody buys cars, houses...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0007par0078	The economy grew.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0002par0079	In 2002, if the family's income rate, or family, was paying $100, the family would pay $4.7 of $100 in debt, so the round account would pay $5. Now, with your success, if we accept each family as $100, the family is now paying $43.5 of that $100 as a loan. Farmer, the smiling farmer of your time, the farmer who made money in your time... either you don't go to the fields or you don't go to the villages or you don't go out of Ankara. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] As of 2002, these farmers have $5 billion in debt to the entire bank. You've done so well in nine years that you've increased your debt by fivefold and put the farmer into 24 billion debts. Now the farmer has no idea if he's going to get money when he picks up his crop from the field. He wants to go to the bank right now and pay what he can. And today you're talking about the rate of growth on all televisions, the rate of annual growth. Turkey has grown so much in nine years that it's said such things with these televisions that it's hard not to believe. Between 1946 and 2002, the average rate of development of the republic you don't like, which you've always wanted to compete with is 5%. If it's wrong, get out and talk here.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0008par0084	The Republic hasn't changed. This is the republic.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0002par0085	From 2003 to 2009, Turkey's average growth rate is 4.3. You didn't make it to yesterday. What are you saying today? Among the developing countries, Turkey ranked 49 (49) in 2002 among 150 countries. During your successful nine-year period of managing the economy, Turkey ranked 88... in the growth ranking of 150 developing countries.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0008par0087	We're the first in the world...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0002par0088	My dear friends, there's one thing you talk about a lot, 49 percent. One of the two people's votes, we came here. Yes, you did. And before you, in these chairs, in these chairs, in these seats...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0009par0090	Mr. Ören, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0002par0091	...one of the two had parties that got the vote, but they're all on the dusty shelves of history.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0010par0092	Do you believe that?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0002par0093	If you have received the vote of one of the two, support the Republican People's Party's proposal of law, remove the 10% threshold, your vote is your vote in the first election. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0011par0096	Mr. Ören, thank you. Mehmet Ali Sesame is the second speaker on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Mr. Sesame, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0012par0101	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of my party to express my opinion on KOSGEB, the Turkish Patent Institute and the Accreditation Agency in the budget of the Ministry of Industry and Technology. I salute you all. I'd like to underline one thing before we discuss the Industrial Ministry budget. The decrees under the law reveal that the newly formed ministries are not in their proper place. I've been watching the talks for three days, and I'm afraid the real sector hasn't come to the point here. So we couldn't talk about domestic trade, we couldn't talk about trade, we couldn't talk about business, we couldn't talk about business. See, the Ministry of Industry budget is important, it's important to produce it, but it's the most important part of it is to sell, market, become active in the market, have a share. Let me tell you something about the growth numbers we're so proud of. For example, 14.5 percent of 9.5 percent of growth in the second quarter is from domestic trade, minus 5 percent from foreign trade. So we're falling behind in selling stuff out, our internal trade is increasing. Growth, growth from the domestic market, and what kind of growth is that? A growth based on imports, a growth based on hot money, and an economic growth that has been severely disturbed by the market's production, including a budget that is literally open, and small, medium-sized enterprises. In the Industrial Ministry budget, where we describe such economic growth, I see that as Minister of Industry and Trade, we can talk more about the needs of the market, but we can't talk more about the needs of the market today. But since my time is limited, I'd like to come to the budget of the institution concerned with speed. During the Ministry of Industry and Trade, KOSGEB is also important today. If industry, as I've just described, is an outside-dependent, import-dependent industry, the function of KOSGEB is large as an institution that supports small and medium-sized enterprises at this very important point. At this point, the COSGEB budget must be appropriate. Unfortunately, that's the first thing we're going to say about COSGEB. The COSGEB budget is now in place at $422m. If you look at the budget assessment from 2009 to 2012, it has come up with 9 per cent growth figures. The number of members of KOSGEB has increased from 4,000 to 620,000. The COBI definition has changed. The SME definition is that when you're not just an industrialist and you've included in the service and trade sector, you get 620,000, especially when it comes to this figure, it's loan interest benefits. Because unfortunately, our society does not recognize KOSGEB. Loan interest supports have had an important function in the sense of recognition of KOSGEB, but the main function of COSGEB is not to provide loan interest support. The main support of COSGEB is projecting, RD support, innovation, transition to high technology, encouraging the new entrepreneur, encouraging the fairs, encouraging exports. See, over 100 million of these 422 million budgets go to staff costs, 152 million in interest support, and the rest to what I call those points. This is the result of the lack of KOSGEB support needed by the Turkish economy, which cannot be given to industry, service sectors, trade sectors. At this point, my suggestion is that KOSGEB should slowly come out of interest benefits; one should increase its budget; two should focus on support for the project. This budget, in my opinion, has not been budgeted by the head of the COSGEB Administration. This budget is largely a budget that the Finance Ministry bureaucrats make every year by putting a nine per cent difference on the budget in the form of cut-copila-structure. Why do I say it's like this? Because Turkey's need requires the COSGEB budget to increase to billions of dollars. If you're going to reduce external dependence in your industry, if you're going to reduce the current deficit, export-import balance in your industry, the company's KOSGEB support should increase. The Credit Guarantee Fund has reached a point, but at the point where it can receive the support of the Credit Guarantee Fund, the Credit Guarantee Fund must be moved to better points. Dear friends, why do you need this loan guarantee fund thing? Because collateral in today's KOSGEB support is the biggest problem. KOSGEB has chosen twenty-six banks in interest support, saying to the twenty-six banks: I will pay 75 percent of your interest, you can lend it to those who have a large amount of power at this point. And I said that on this platform in the years before that, and when I said that, Mr. Minister, who opposed it, later understood it, and he said: "The interest support went to weddings, buying cars, buying houses. This is really how it is, we need to turn COSGEB supports into project-based support. Today in Turkey, our industry seriously needs to transform itself. We're slowly trying to get from low-tech production to middle-tech production, we haven't been able to get to higher technology. If Turkey has set its target of 500 billion exports in 2023, it first needs small, medium-sized businesses to increase its technology in this position and boost RGE support and open their way to accessing their funding. COSGEB (KOSGEB) has a very important function in fulfilling this need. For this, the staff of COSGEB should be increased. Look, there are 30,000 businesses in Izmir. There are 30 people in KOSGEB. If you take some of the 30 employees as drivers or something, you get 1,500 people, and you get one. The firms don't know about KOSGEB. For him, there's a need to talk about what KOSGEB supports are in education, in society, in industry, in industrial rooms, in traderooms, in trade rooms, in a coordinated study, in education, in the business rooms, but with this staff, there's no chance of doing that with this budget. If your vision of 2023 is these numbers, you can't go to this with this budget, with these KOSGEB supports. We're giving you a new vision here. If you have put industrial strategy in specific areas in this sense, there is a great deal of importance to KOSGEB support on the road to these areas. In this sense, today, the COSGEB budget needs to be reviewed once again by the Ministry. On this occasion, my dear friends, as I come to the end of my talk, I would like to stress one more thing: In fact, our industrialist describes himself as: (We have come to a logistical industry based on hot money, based on imports, more than making our own production. To prevent that, we need an industry that encourages domestic production, cheapens inputs, supports RD and technology, and contributes to our vision for exports. It's clear from these figures that we see that an industrialisation policy that implements this need is not enough at present in the Ministry. With that understanding, both the development of industry and science and technology requires a new vision and a power that can reach its 2023 goals. This is what the Republican People's Party says in local governments and general elections. (HPP) To implement an understanding that loves production, is a friend of production, technology, DGE, science as a leader, the current power of the Republican People's Party programme is needed. With these feelings, I wish you all the best in the budget.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0013par0114	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. The third speaker is Mr. Riza Turmen, MP of İzmir. Here you go, Mr. Specten.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0014par0118	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have issued a decree in a law order last August. Since this decree was never brought into parliament, contrary to the Constitution, we were unable to negotiate here because he was hiding from the Parliament. When you look at the Law Code No. 651, you'll think it's the Department of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. However, two things have been hidden within the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism: TUBITAK and TUBA, Turkish Academy of Sciences. Under this Law, the autonomy of TÜBİTAK and TÜBA (TİBA) has been lifted and both institutions are bound by the government. The number of members in terms of TÜBİTAK has been increased from 13 to 17, and the majority of these members are envisioned to be appointed by the Prime Minister and the SEC, including the vice president and vice president. In terms of TÜBA, the number of members increased from 150 to 300 in terms of the Turkish Academy of Sciences, and one-third of those 300 members were expected to be elected by the Council of Ministers, one-third by the SEC and one-third by themselves. This was changed later in terms of the intensity of the responses. One third was envisioned to be appointed by the Council of Ministers, not by the Council of Ministers, but both came to the same conclusion, as TÜBİTAK was already tied to the government. Dear lawmakers, with these procedures, both institutions' scientific autonomy was terminated -- not only that -- as well as the scientific autonomy of Turkey's free scientific thinking and free scientific research, which are already the two complements of one another. If there are no autonomous institutions, there will be no free scientific research, no free scientific thinking. When the complementary elements were eliminated, Turkey became the first country in Europe that did not include free scientific thought. The foundation of scientific autonomy is that the institutions choose their own members, which is also a requirement of their merit. If they choose themselves, then scientists in that field will read, evaluate, decide what they've contributed to science. The possibility of elections, based on such merit, has also been eliminated, and the choices to be made will then be based on solidarity, as we have seen in many other institutions. With these measures, both institutions have lost their scientific identities, the Turkish Academy of Sciences is no longer a science academy. Intent responses from all over the world, from all over Europe, show that this is the way it is, and then Turkey's Academy of Sciences will be excluded from the international world of science. Nature magazine, a very important science journal, says that ending the freedom of TÜBA is a symbol of the general antidemocratic transformation in Turkey. Dear MPs, the example of this is that there is no place in the world for such a scientific institution, the autonomy of a scientific academy. The only exception is Mussolini's Fascist Italy. Mussolini's Fascist Italy, the famous Accademia Dei Lincei institution there, is a scientific academic institution that is very old and is a member of Galileo. In the period of Mussolini Italy, a law decree was issued in 1934, just as it was with us. Only the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism does not have an organization within the rule of law issued in Italy and has been authorized to appoint new members of the government under this law. In 1934, the head of government again took the authority to appoint the President and Vice President of this Accademia Dei Linei, and in 1939, Accademia Dei Linei was eliminated. When the government changed in 1943, Mussolini's government fell, then the autonomy of Accademia Dei Lincei was restored. So we'll probably have to expect a change in government to renegotiate the autonomy of the Turkish Academy of Sciences. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Of course, the removal of this scientific autonomy has produced huge reactions from both Turkey and abroad, 67 members have resigned from the Turkish Academy of Sciences. I mean, it's coming to mind, why can't a democratic, democratic government just say, Look, we respect your scientific autonomy, but we want your institution to work better, we want it to work better. So, we have some suggestions. Come, let's discuss this together, we'll consult together, we'll discuss it and we'll get you into a better system of work. Why can't he say that? The government can't say that, lawmakers, because it's a matter of management philosophy, the government's philosophy of governance is a philosophy of governance, which is based on majority rather than pluralism, which makes all kinds of powers available to them, which doesn't challenge autonomous institutions. Democracy, however, is based on institutional pluralism. It's hard to talk about democracy where there's no corporate pluralism, no autonomy, no independent institutions, but there's no way the government's philosophy of governance can accept a better way to run the Turkish Academy of Sciences without damaging such autonomy. At this rate, valuable lawmakers, I'm afraid the only institution not appointed by the government in Turkey will be the Turkish Basketball National Team with the Turkish Football National Team. Other than that, in all Turkey, institutions are government-bound, members of which are appointed by the government. It's a very dangerous way to go in a democracy. Dear lawmakers, I'm afraid that in terms of democracy and freedom, Turkey is going through a dark period. We need to be able to get back before this dark period goes further, before it gets darker, before the dark clouds can get any more intense. For him, the restoration of Turkey's Academy of Sciences and TÜBİTAK (TÜBİTAK), the reconstruction of free thought, scientific thinking, the restoration of scientific autonomy in Turkey is a very important condition for Turkish democracy, and I hope that you will understand the importance of this, and that this mistake will all be corrected together. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0015par0128	Thank you, Mr. Specten. On behalf of the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0016par0130	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0015par0131	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0016par0132	Mr. Speaker mentioned the Turkish Academy of Sciences in his speech. The Turkish Academy of Sciences was founded in 1993 under a decree under the rule of law, and its members were appointed by then Prime Minister Tansu Ciller and are a prime minister. So, I don't think it's right for the speaker to make a fascist suggestion from here on out. I want it on the record.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0015par0134	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0017par0135	Mr. President, we have a minute.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0018par0136	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0015par0137	Now, the fourth speaker...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0018par0138	Mr. President, since our Vice President of the Group has made a statement for the record, I'd like to make a statement for the record, if I may.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0015par0139	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0018par0140	Yes, the Academy of Sciences was founded in 93 under a decree of law. As in the world's advanced democracies, it has been structured as an institution for scientists to decide matters, processes. Eighteen years after that day, the autonomy of TUBA, the Academy of Sciences was destroyed, and the Government intervened in the General Assembly of Science. It's a practice that doesn't exist in developed democracies around the world, or even Pakistan. That's what I'm saying, sir, for the record.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0015par0142	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0019par0143	Let's not start a TUBA debate here, so I'm gonna shut up. It's all happening in front of everyone.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0015par0144	Congressmans, fourth speaker on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr Ahmet Toptaş. [[Applause from CHP rows]] His speech period was 11 minutes, and we add one minute from the other, 12 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Topstone.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0020par0148	Congressmans, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the National Ministry of Defence. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Congressmans, as I begin my remarks, I'd like to talk about a number of problems in the Turkish Armed Forces that should be resolved immediately and can be solved immediately. In our country, all civil servants, soldiers who serve in our country, are employed according to their training levels, and are again retired according to their training levels, but veterans are retired from level 8 of the third degree, regardless of whether they are a faculty or a higher education degree. I think it's imperative that they, like the other officers, take advantage of their pensions to the 1st degree according to their training levels. With this law organized in accordance with justice, the victims of their mauls and veterans and the families left behind by the martyrs will be removed. Again, the mandatory service of petty officers is unfair. Officers and petty officers' mandatory time of service has been set for 15 years. Given the lengths of their training, an officer is referred to as an officer after a very long training, but after a year of training, those who have been referred to as petty officers are still being subjected to a mandatory service, like 15 years, which I think is not fair. Again, experts have a very serious problem. Experts are cut off from Turkish Armed Forces in case they receive a break or change of air for a period of three months a year. Then no one's applying to become a specialist. Thus, the participation in recent calls for an expert soldier's exam has also been less than 50 per cent. I feel that injustice should be dealt with with with with a more equitable arrangement, and that experts should at least be assured of the responsibility for their work. When these arrangements are not made, petty officers are trying to get their rights by running from political parties as candidates, even though they do not want to, by marrying foreign women, because they cannot resign until they have completed a 15-year mandatory service period. This has to be avoided. Congressmans, after these assessments, since this is about the budget of the National Ministry of Defence, we need to look at where our defence and security policies have evolved from methods that have been implemented since the AKP's history. Turkey had a sense of defence and security and foreign policy, with its understanding of peace in foreign policy, peace in the world. From this point of view, Turkey has shown itself that it has no concern about fighting any country unless there is a threat or attack, and has made it necessary to contribute to the world's domination of peace, and it has at times opposed demands and initiatives against its own national interests. This sentence has shown that the United States of America would not be involved in the attacks on our neighbor and brother Iraq with false evidence, false evidence, and black propaganda. At this point, the United States pushed the button for the success of a government and coalition parties, led by Ecevit, which it understood would not support imperialist policies and new world order projects, and would co-operate with it. To implement the policy of redesigning the Middle Eastern geography, the most important leg of the new world order project of the United States, political institutions have been established in Turkey and pressed for the invasion of Iraq. However, on March 1st, this great assembly rejected the thesis that allowed the United States to invade Iraq via Turkey and allow the south of our country to take control of the United States. Mr. Erdogan, who promised to pass the thesis to His Excellency Bush at a time when he had been banned as much as the U.S. government refused to do so. Mr. Erdogan, who couldn't handle the situation, said that the soldiers did not give enough support for the countermeasure to pass, and pointed the Turkish soldier at the United States. That's where the breaking point is. The date is July 4, 2003, and AKP Power has not yet completed a year. At the breaking point of the 4th of July, 11 Turkish soldiers were placed in a sack and three of Talabani's pessimers were present during this brutal execution. The soldiers held captive for fifty-seven hours were also tried after being released. The TSK, which was said to have not given strong support to the March 1st thesis, has been set up for ballistics. The AKP government has not destroyed the Turkish soldier's relations with the U.S. military, who, for the first time in Turkish history, had a sack, but has not broken their ties with the commander of U.S. soldiers who had a sack. The sacking general, then appointed to the CIA presidency, visited Turkey on July 18, 2011 -- the first visit of two days' visit to Turkey -- for two days' visit to Turkey -- and exchanged opinions with Turkey, so I don't want to think about how embarrassing it was. Let's continue... In 2004, Mr. Erdogan was appointed co-chair of the U.S. Middle East Project.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0021par0158	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0020par0159	What I know is...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0021par0160	Oh, come on, don't talk over and over and over and over again!
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0020par0161	If you listen, you'll know how the day came. As far as I'm concerned, the Prime Minister is a post, the presidency is a office, the ministry is a office, and it's defined how to choose from where, it's regulated by law, but this co-chair is not an elected position in Turkish law, it's an American office.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0022par0163	You've got it all tied up in the U.S.? Why are you so afraid of America? Why are you so afraid?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0020par0164	Your American love, maybe.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0022par0165	We're strong, confident. What are you so afraid of?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0020par0166	This Great Middle East Project, dear friends, is a project to redesign twenty-two major Middle East states from Mediterranean to Afghanistan. This project divided Iraq by three. This project divided Libya into three parts. This project is a project to deal with Syria through Turkey. After that, it will come to Iran, and when it comes to Turkey, it will be understood that it is not the milkman who knocks, but time and time will pass. Look at this view, where the co-chair would be better understood by this view. Turkey will bring democracy to Syria along with America. With who? Libya was awarded a human rights prize, and Libya was a democracy? While Syria's joint ministers are rounding up the council, there was a democracy in Syria with Shamgen, and it's lost, will you bring it back and rebuild it in Syria? Will you bring democracy with the understanding of a country in Saudi Arabia where women don't even have the right to drive? Will you bring democracy to Syria with El Bashir, who slaughtered his people? Dear friends, while Gaddafi was in power in Libya, was there a democracy in Libya when in 1974 those who invaded Turkey today did not give Libyan fuel, while Libya put an embargo on its gun, on its vehicle, on its equipment, when Libya opened all the doors? Was there a democracy in Libya when you took human rights? Did you think that when you watched the scene of the murder of Gaddafi (Gaddafi) in Libya, those who killed would bring democracy? Was it possible to watch that tragedy as a human being? Is your heart satisfied? Dear friends, my time is limited, and you have come to this day to criticize the republic and to deal with the republic. If you compare the mistakes you've made to the return of the Republic...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0023par0169	Your speaker did it this morning.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0020par0170	Listen, man, you got a lot to learn. In your every move, you will learn a lesson from Mustafa Kemal, the founder of the republic that you criticised in 1937, when you gave the Middle East the opportunity for Europe and the imperialism of America, and made it a concept of Turkey's foreign policy: no one knows the confusion and dissatisfaction among the Arabs as much as we do. We stayed away from the Arabs for a few years. But now that we have enough confidence in them and know our power, we will prevent Islam's holy places from under the influence of Jews and Christians. I just want to say that we won't allow this to be the playground of European imperialism. The founder of the republic you're trying to settle says so. Until now, we have been accused of being heathen and Islamic. Despite these accusations, however, we are ready to shed our blood today to ensure that the last will of the Prophet, the Holy Land, will remain forever under the rule of Islam. Today, we are strong enough by the grace of God to declare that we will not allow our bodies to be on the throne of foreign domination and influence under the rule of Saladin, in the land where they fight the Christians for it. We have no doubt that the whole Muslim world will rise up and act on the first step that Europe will take to base these holy places. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mustafa Kemal says that you are entering the Middle East with the Westerners as occupation forces. Hi.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0024par0179	Thank you, Mr. Topstone. The last speaker on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group is Veli Ağbaba, Malatya MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is nine minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0025par0183	Mr. President, on behalf of the Republican People's Party, I have made a commitment to the Defense Industry Undersecretary. As I begin with my words, I salute you with respect, with love. The first article on the defence industry contains a very clear sentence, what does it say: the aim of this law is to develop modern defence industry and to ensure modernisation of the Turkish Armed Forces. Despite such a clear ruling, you have issued a decree in law order that the Defense Industry Support Fund should be divided into MİSCE and security. And why is that? You're looking for a way to transfer $6 billion to MIT and security? If this budget is too much for the Turkish Armed Forces, shift the share to education, use it to make the signs we boast about hanging in 81 provinces a university. Is the security budget not sufficient? Then increase the budget of these institutions. There's a catch here, and we smell something bad, so why don't you come out and explain? Your decision on the Defence Industry Undersecretary sums up AKP policies well, and the best camel example of those policies is: What you're making here is right, and what you're making here is right. What about your agreement with Israel about drones? How much did Israel win? Were there accidents that cost millions of dollars? Our people's money burned to the ground? First you pay to buy drones, then you give them millions of dollars and rent the same vehicles. Did you swear to tie the money tap to Israel? There are so many unanswered questions, these questions are not answered because we don't know, but because you can't. The same unanswered questions are present in the same smoky air missile shield project. Dear friends, the AKP is putting a fire shirt on this country, unaware of the public and Parliament. With this project, we become the servant of the United States, the shield of Israel, the target of our neighbors. The Undersecretary and the ambassador signed a memorandum of understanding to set up a missile shield for Malatya. Why not a deal, but an agreement? Because if there's a deal, the House will have to come to the agenda. In parliament, the non-responsive AKP pen handed it to the undersecretary, secretly signed it, and the signature was announced to Turkey by the midnight bulletin. Prior to the Lisbon Summit, Prime Minister says that if such a thing is thought across our lands, we should be given command. Otherwise, it is not possible to accept such a thing. Well, the same Prime Minister says not much, but what he said a week later: "We said that the command system should be completely in NATO. " The relentless contradiction between these two sentences is a heartbreaking situation. It's really sad that the Prime Minister is in this situation. By so on, for reasons such as infrastructure, hardware, the command was handed over to the United States. If you do not believe me, read the explanations of the White House, where you will see the naked truth. Whose project is it? U.S.A. Protect who from who? He will protect Israel against Iran. It's the U.S.A., playing the AKP. The script is very simple: the drum will be on Turkey's neck, and the mallet will be in the hands of the United States. Look at the date, where you'll see the bloody pages of the imperial forces. In those bloody pages, you'll see the share of this country's sovereigns, its rulings. Those who spread the land of this country to the Iraqi invaders, those who pray for them, even if they put one and take five, they won't be able to stop being criminals in front of history. We must say no to this imperialist project that will shed the blood of the poor and take the blood of the oppressed. Or in every drop of blood, in every soul that falls, in the tears of the mothers, in the eyes of the orphans, there will be a share of all those who do not fulfill their responsibility today. We said, "Let's not go into this sword shield game, let's not make our country a target." We went up into the mountains of the sphere, and said, "No, but we couldn't listen." Shortly thereafter, Syria turned its missiles into Turkey. Iran first started screaming that it would hit Malatya. Not long ago, Iranian Parliament Speaker Huseyin Ibrahimi said: "In the event of any attack, we will target the missile shield in the Globekic, and that is our most natural right. The President of Russia also stated that they would take necessary measures against the missile shield. The fact that we've become targets has been embodyed by this information. Unfortunately, we were right. And did those who accused us of being jazzy, who tried to make the missile shield innocent, go out and correct their wrongs, apologize to the public, regret giving false information to the public? No, none of this happened. Let these people know that it is our left hand that binds against the shield. One, I'm proud to be a leftist. [[Applause from CHP rows]] - What's lefty got to do with it? I walk the path of the Seawalkers against the Israeli shield. Two: This issue is as much about conscience as it is about political stance. The right tradition of the Saadet Party, the HAS Party, the MaZLUMDER, MHP is walking with us against this shield. Everyone who has no sense of justice, no sense of remorse, opposes this shield. You can't do the right thing by zigzaging, going after the imperialists, sacrificing human values to gains. We've seen what people do when they enter Iraq with the promise of freedom and democracy. Hundreds of thousands of dead, millions of widows, orphans, raped women, their lives looted Iraqis... here's the idea of imperialism, democracy and freedom. We will not forget the Coni (coni) in Iraq, nor will we forget their prayers. War is violence, war is death. War is a killing machine where great bosses turn their own interests into the blood of the poor. It's a sock that the buyers of war have knitted on the heads of those who can't buy a thesis. It's not the war that wants courage, it's the peace. We always defend peace against war, and I'd like to give you some advice. At least think of the parts you've been exploiting for years. Look at the Islamic geography that has turned into a pool of blood throughout your nine years of power. For the sake of your old days, listen to the oppressed for a second. What happened? Or did you retire from the mujahideen when you came to power?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0026par0199	We listen to the underdogs.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0025par0200	In Davos, you say one minute, you say Lisbon, yes, okay. Showing off in front of a camera, signing behind doors. What's going to happen to you? You can't cover the sun with clay, you can't cover the truth. If you want to get rid of this shame, if you want to turn back from this wrong, act before it's too late, sign your name. After that, the path to follow is quite simple. This missile shield project must be stopped immediately, then brought to Parliament. There should be information and discussion here. Otherwise, you would have failed to comply with Article 92 of the Constitution and thus committed a crime. Not only will you commit constitutional crimes, but you will be in the criminal seat of the underdogs. We want this shield project brought to Parliament for him. Dear friends, the AKP, which brought Tanzania to parliament and Uganda and Austria to discuss bilateral agreements, unfortunately, has not discussed this important project that led Turkey to war in Parliament, and I offer it to our nation's knowledge. Dear friends, otherwise, we will establish a peace shield against the missile shield. We will not surrender to imperialists and collaborators, we will resist. Remember, blood is not a sin, it is not peace with a weapon, it is not friendship with an imperialist. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0027par0206	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Now, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Ibrahim Binici, Congress Member of Şanlıurfa. Here you go, Mr. Rider. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0028par0211	Mr. President, I have made a commitment on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party regarding the budget of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology under the Central Management Budget Bill of 2012. I salute you all. Honourable lawmakers, small and medium-sized businesses, as in all developed and developing economies, form the most fundamental stones in the Turkish economy. More than 99 per cent of the businesses operating in Turkey remain under the SME rating. I would like to share with you the information prepared by the Ministry on our COBI, including the SME Strategy and Action Plan. All of this information is based on 2009 data of TÜİK annual business statistics. Businesses with fewer than 250 employees in the Strategy and Action Plan are considered to be the SME definition. According to this, the number of SMEs found in Turkey is 3 million 222,33%. 82 per cent of the SMEs operate in the service and trade and 13 per cent in the manufacturing industry. The SMEs constitute 78 per cent of total employment in Turkey, 55 per cent of total added value, 65 per cent of total sales, and 50 per cent of total investments in Turkey. In addition, the share of the SMEs, which carried out 60 per cent of Turkey's total exports, is 24 per cent of the total loans. Representatives, KOSGEB was established in 1990 in an effort to improve the effectiveness of the SMEs that are so important in Turkey's economy, to boost their competitiveness and levels, to achieve integration in the industry in line with economic developments. Having completed twenty-one years, KOSGEB is unfortunately far from fulfilling its purpose in this institution's law. In a presentation by the Ministry of the Plan and Budget Commission, dated 23/11/2011, the number of businesses registered in the KOSGEB database today was 620,000, he said. According to the minister's statement, the number of COBIs in Turkey is 3 million 222,000, so only one of the five SMEs is registered in the COSGEB database. Mr. Secretary, who made the emphasis that the number was 4,000 before them, forgetting that data on the SME Strategy Action Plan, which was announced by the Ministry, and on the Turkish Industrial Strategy Document of January 5, 2011, was based on the afflicted data of TİK 2008 and 2009. The data the AKP government, which has completed its ninth year in power, will receive from the industrial inventory study, which the industrial ministers have never finished, will be more acceptable and more up-to-date than TİK's false misinformation. In the same speech, he said, the KOSGEB support, which was $14,500,000 by 2003, reached $400m in its entire administration period. Now, let's do a little math. 4,000 registered SMEs, 14 million and 500,000 liras, up until 2003. Divide the given support by the number of registered COBIs. What's that worth? $3,625 per COBI. 620,000 registered SMEs, 420 million liras, from 2003 to today. Divide the given support by the number of registered COBIs. What's that worth? $645 per COBI. What are you eating at? I'm not trying to clear the term before you when I'm giving you these numbers, but "Tence is black." I say, "Yours is black. But you don't know it. I mean it. Respected lawmakers, the SME Strategy and Action Plan have been briefed on the share of the SMEs in the economy as follows their course between 2003 and 2008. According to these reports, the total investment share of the SME was down from 61.3% in 2003 to 50 per cent by 2008. This decline is very clear to us. During the AKP administrations, our COBIs were uninvestigated, the scissors between the rich and the poor were opened, the imbalance in income distribution increased. In other words, capital was concentrated in AKP times in the hands of the slush layer, which remained out of the definition of the SME and was a thousandth in proportion to one in a thousand. My esteemed representatives, on page 82 of the January 5th 2011 "Turkey Industrial Strategy Document," aimed at between 2011 and 14th, the following information is included under the title "Accession to Finance of the People: According to TÜİK data in 2008, the share of the SMEs, 3 million 449, 795, in our country, is about 26 per cent. Also, according to BDK data, the Turkish banking system's collection of loans amounted to $392 billion 621m as of the end of 2009, and 21.4 per cent of these loans have SME loans. The cleverness of AKP governments to collect apples and pears and present them as the same has once again appeared in this document. According to this information, under the title "Turkey Industrial Strategy Document," it is a complete hoax that loans being used are presented as loans taken by industrialists, KOBI (industrial loans). Because we all know that the vast majority of the SMEs are not industrialists. Another issue on loans is: According to information in the Turkish Industrial Strategy Document, the number of businesses which were used for KOSGEB support in 2009 was 69,47. That means that only 2% of the total COSGEBs were able to benefit from KOSGEB support. Respected lawmakers, at the beginning of my speech, I shared with you the information on the SMES based on the SME Strategy Action Plan. The COBI Strategy Action Plan, based on TÜİK data in 2009, has a number of 3 million 222,000. Now, there are two strategy documents prepared by the same year and the same ministry. One uses Turkey's Industrial Strategy Document, TÜİK 2008 data, and gives the COBI number -- rounding -- 3,450,000. The other, the COBI Strategy Action Plan, TİK used 2009 data and gave the COBI number -- again, rounding -- 3 million 222,000. Here, 228,000 differences between these two data are the impact of the 2008 crisis last year. Respected lawmakers are the difference of inter-state development in one of the major problems caused by the SMEs and the geographically unstable distribution of the industry in general. Close to 55 per cent of the SME are active in the areas of Istanbul, the Aegean and the Mediterranean. This condensation brings in internal migration movements, inability to share revenues, and urban problems. The problem, which has been going on for years, continues to endure, unfortunately, during the AKP administrations. In the election declaration, two satellite cities to Istanbul, a third bridge, a new tube pass, ports in Galata and Haydarpaşa, the AKP government will not be able to solve this problem, with crazy projects added above new airport commitments. In the Turkish Industrial Strategy Document prepared by the Ministry of Industry, the initiative for resolving regional development differences has been left to development agencies, EU grant programmes and regional universities. The Strategy Document contains not a word about regional development plans such as Gap, DAP, DOKAP, and the Zonguldak Regional Development Plan. Of course, all of these projects are very important. However, the Southeast Anatolia Project has been turned into a snake story for over 40 years, and nine years of this sin belongs to the AKP governments. In terms of population and geography, the GAP was implemented in an area covering 10 per cent of Turkey and turned into a project to deceive the poor. The main proof of this is that the AKP's government has given the GAP a reason for ignoring the $9 billion from a fund deficit to a budget deficit, which is the guarantee of unemployed chunks. Respected MPs, among the 34-member OECD countries, Turkey's place in regional injustice is first place. The distribution of the national income published by the TİK in 2008, according to the provinces, confirms that we deserve this first place more than ever. As of 2008, Istanbul's share of Turkey's national income was close to 28 per cent, its nearest Ankara's share was 8.5 per cent and its neighborhood and Izmir's share of 6.5 per cent. Van, Ağrı, Bitlis, Hakkari, Mardin, Batman, Şırnak and Siirt are all sentenced to settle for 2% of the national income. This gap in national income is seen more clearly as a result of per capita income. According to TÜİK 2008 data, the per capita income in Turkey is $9,300. The per cent of Fert's income is $14,000 in Istanbul, but not $3,500 in Van, Mush, Bitlis, Haqkari, Ağrı, Diyarbakır, Mardin and the surrounding provinces. My esteemed representatives, in advanced democracies, in favor of low-developed regions in order to address inequality, there is a policy of nepotism and positive discrimination, one of which is the incentive system. In Turkey...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0029par0242	Thank you, Mr. Rider, your time is up, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0028par0243	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0029par0245	Our next speaker is Mr. Iron Steel. Here you go, Mr. Steel. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0030par0249	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budgets of our Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. I salute you all. TÜBITAK, which is Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Foundation and the TÜBA, which has been referred to as the Academy of Sciences in Turkey, have until recently been our institutions that have taken important and responsibility for projecting small and medium-sized institutions and implementing their projects as much as it is intended to provide inter-industrial personnel and staff. These institutions were autonomous, quote-unquote. So it was the institutions that ruled, ruled, and ruled, and decided the basic needs of social dynamics through their own autonomous structures. Even their autonomy within this nail will be seen in the morning, as the TÜBITAK and TÜBA met on August 27th, with the same treatments that we used to get when we woke up every day. With decrees under the law, these semi-privileged structures have been transformed into institutions and institutions that are subject to operating. It is also a paradox with today's world, where the 17-member Science Council has the freedom to be elected by the Council, but the remaining 15 will be appointed by the CEC and the Prime Minister, which contradicts their autonomy spirit, where the world of today is becoming increasingly democratic, more nurmatic, and more ademical. As if that weren't enough, these autonomous structures have been made into institutions that are as subject to your invention and permission as to the savings and initiative of executives. Dear lawmakers, a mindset that has been subject to the same centrifugal structures as in our 90-year history, which have been singled out, equalized, for 90 years, has not led us to forward, better, better, better, better, better, better, better, better, better, better, and more, is certain that this path is not the right way because it is not different from them, and the means and the tools used to lead us back, not forward. We, the Peace and Democracy Party, were a party that did not receive help from the treasury, which was based on its own power, self-determination, which is our party, Istanbul, İzmir, Mersin, Adana, Adana, Şanlıurfa, Diyarbakır, Batman, Van provinces, and in many districts, on behalf of science, the scientists' sacrifices, solidarity and sharers' contributions, were building political institutions, where politics were discussed, and were terrorized while freedoms were spoken of, especially in those political areas, including academics. Look, it's not enough, I think, even though lawmakers, mayors, politicians are imprisoned in prison in 2011, Turkey is condemned to live in the 1920s, the 1980s, despite the fact that we're being led by advanced democracy at some point, and if we're being kept alive, I don't think the people and the people of Turkey deserve it. Dear President, dear lawmakers, we come from a congressional tradition that speaks much of peace, peace in the country, peace in the world, rather than the conflict of civilizations; rather than the peace of this parliament -- rather than the international global peace of the peoples, this country's beliefs, and its cultures. The efforts we've made when we don't fulfill this burden, the energy we're going to spend on tomorrow, will be nothing more than an opportunity for war and war traders. Dear President, dear lawmakers, the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, TÜBITAK and TUBA must first be autonomised as institutions that are responsible for conducting scientific research. The finance, personnel, technical infrastructure of autonomous structures must be strengthened so that democratic, civil society, along with social enlightenment, can be opened up. As long as we can't civilize society, we can't democratize it, we'll continue to live with the reality of a Turkey that is condemned to authoritarian decentralisationists, living each day, feeling it inside of us. It's not fate, it's not a future we can promise our people. Our mission and our responsibility is not just to convert it into tools, to some part of the device that confirms what exists, to serve the purpose of buying time. Our mission, on the contrary, is to expose the dynamics of our country that have been changing, changing, changing, and transforming, depending on the world's conditions. What is revealed from them is to allow Turkey to transform synergy into change, as a product of our holistic policies. Instead of expanding the fields of freedom, giving freedoms an opportunity, when we approach the problem with a sense and a mindset that seizes what exists, which prevents what exists, we can sit on the stand in the face of tomorrow's history with new policies that have become more gangrene than solution, causing chaos and crisis. Dear President, dear MPs, in the referendum on June 12, 2010, we went to our people, to our citizens, to deal with the constitution of the September 12th junta, military dictatorship or fascist dictatorship. We come from a parliamentary tradition in a more democratic, more liberal, more viable country, promising an equal, liberal and democratic constitution, promising us since 12 September 2010, promising to play the founding assembly on the street, in the square, in the field, knowing the opportunity for the June 12th 2011 elections. Dear lawmakers, it is therefore our duty to turn back from the wrong while the road is near, and to walk in the right direction. This mission is more than anyone's duty to the ruling party. Because it's not a democratic system that sets the religious religious believer apart as a danger to society by reversing the religion -- the other way around the system -- that has different identities and cultures -- that has a sense of danger and death to light, socialists in some way, but that has different identities and cultures, especially Kurds, who have different identities and cultures, who have different rights, who divide the rights by the label of separatism. Come, as advocate of a tradition that has suffered the most harm, let's do our duty without delay to be a member of the National Assembly, in order to meet the basic demands our people expect for democratisation and liberalisation of the country. Because we promised the people of the country a democratic, egalitarian, liberal constitution. This is an unscheduled mission ahead of us at the point where history is essential. I salute you with respect and love, and wish you all a good day, with the wishes of a budget process that will turn this mission into a mission that will bring peace to our people, our country, and the world.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0031par0261	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Third speaker, Bitlis MP Husamettin Zenderlioğlu. Here you go, Mr. Zenderlioglu. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0032par0266	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party regarding the budget for the National Ministry of Defence budget, drafting the 2012 Central Management Budget Act. I hereby salute you with respect, with love. When we evaluate the 2012 budget on health and education in terms of social policy, we can say that this budget is very high, and it is not a budget that will ensure Turkey's well-being and happiness. That's what I have to say in general. Therefore, I also have to say that the national defense budget is very high because this budget is set at $18 billion and $300 million. All military expenditures are not open and transparent, and no one can oversee this budget. Where do they go, what do they aim at? Yet, in modern times, we live in a time when boundaries are lifted and the era of cold war is over. I take the fact that such a budget is too much as a sign of disaster. The tears and blood of mankind have not stopped since Abel and Cain. You know that millions of people died in World War II. All this money spent on war, if it had been spent on the development, industry, education, health, the economy of that country, there would have been no need for such a war. In World War II, 55 million people died, 20 million people were crippled, 15 million people started living with prosthetics. This global capitalist aggression is still humanity's fearful dream today. Of course, the continued attacks on this economic crisis that is developing in the world today are also a sign of this disaster. In particular, there is resistance to this pressure. In New York, the main center of this resistance stood up to him in the heart of America's imperialism. In the Middle East, under the name of the New World Order, he tries to restructure the countries under the name "Pax Americana" (Pax Americana). It's trying to cool the warmers and heat the coolers. It's supposed to be a peace project. What part of this is a peace project? So, the Abkhazia-Gürcistan problem, the Chechnya-Russia problem, the Afghanistan problem, the Pakistan-India problem, the Kashmir problem, the Palestinian problem in the Middle East and the Kurdish issue divided into four parts, is stuck in the heart of Middle East. This project, when we consider it economically, has only one goal: to take over the fertile land. Everything is for America. The policy of division and governance is still in effect. Many of those who resist this persecution in the Middle East have been crushed by tanks, and destroyed regimes they did not want by means of an organization called the Gladio. For years, no one's taken the pressure on the people of the Middle East into their hearts, and we don't take it in. They started a new war by changing the maps of World War II that they did not win in World War II. Now they're reinventing nuclear weapons to start a third world war. This is what they want to position in the town of Orbsik in Malatya. Of course, such pressure may not concern others in this Kurdish land, but it concerns us. Turkey's division of the Kurds to these four states, surrounded by mines, and now its target is very interesting and makes sense. We're doing military exercises with no rights to seize the land and property of a citizen by laying landmines on the grounds of defence. Under the name of the citizens, the people in these four parts are related to each other. Great events are also caused by the comings and goings and goings and goings and goings and goings and goings and goings and goings and goings and goings and goings and goings and goings and goings and goings. Because every time he leaves, every time he comes, those people have to crash into a mine and leave their feet or arms or part of his body at those border gates. Turkey is one of four countries that have not destroyed the mines it should have destroyed by March 1, 2008, and have violated the Mine Prohibition Agreement. Hundreds of our people have died and hundreds have been crippled by land mines. No compensation has been paid to families who have been victims. I'm asking the AKP government: Why don't you pay compensation under the name "legality" by confiscating and confiscating these fields where the villagers are farming and livestock? What kind of justice is that? What kind of a government is that? However, this system has been decided by an agreement between Turkey and the United States government. In other words, the radar defence system, which aims to address the blocked Israeli-Turkey diplomatic tension, is trying to establish this missile system to protect Israel. However, when our Minister makes a statement, there is no missile in Turkey, the system that will be built is called for defence. However, it was not well received in the neighbouring countries that our Minister expressed in an innocent way. Turkey was said to be his first target in an attack that could happen. With this development, is Turkey aware of the danger? Is it true that the AKP government has made the Globecik (the target of military attacks)? The people of the region are already very anxious to live under this threat of war. What good will the construction of these missile launchers do for the people of Turkey? On March 1, it was said that a Muslim Turkey would not draw weapons on its Muslim brothers. I wonder how it would explain to Muslim states in a war to be fought. According to media reports, the Department of Defense is already on alert for 13 batteries and 72 missile buys. Do merchants, of course, stand idle? They're running around on stage. The Russians have gone up to meet with the S-300, the 400. Americans are said to be preferred because of battery missiles in the Patriot system. These materials, these tools, the killing machines, are not certain, but there is one thing that is clear: the taxes from the poor, the poor, the laborers, the small-income, will go to the arms dealer's vault. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have pledged support from the United States for military operations he plans to destroy the Kurdish problem he has put on the shelf against AKP Government Globecik Base. The Kurdish problem, on the other hand, has not been solved by military methods that have been developed for thirty years. Now, are you going to solve this problem by making concessions to the United States and other NATO countries? The little intense battle has burned all our hearts. Adeta, you know as well as I do that the country leaves a trail of pain all alone. Unfortunately, there have been lawsuits filed against those who have taken a democratic stance towards the end of these operations, and our deputies, our party managers, have been greeted with gas bombs and batons against our people. That's how every democratic act of ours is met. No to war by the initiative of peace mothers in Hakkari Province of Çukurca district! No to operations! Our Van BDP General Assembly Member Yıldırım Ayhan has lost his life in this democracy march. That's not the answer to those who want peace. Does it mean anything to you that Lightning Ayhan lost his life in the peace march he went on using his democratic rights? These practices remind us of the 90s in the solution to the Kurdish problem, Cillervari! This method is an understanding that will deepen and unresolve this problem. More tears should be known that the AKP government will bring more pain with this budget for war. The curfew was declared until 3 October 2011-15 January 2012, when Haqkari, Siirt, Şırnak, Diyarbakır province borders were divided into 15 regions. What is the reason for this, Mr. Secretary of Defense, I'd like to ask? This method has been tried many times. Governments have tried before, but unfortunately, no success and no results have been achieved. How long are you and the State of Emergency going to crush this people? You ban people's freedom of movement, and in some areas, you violate property rights and forbid immigrants, peasants, to ascend to the foothills and meadows. Is that illegal? In a democratic country, in a country ruled by democracy, in a country that talks about law every day, how is it still being run by the State of Emergency? We say it's the wrong way. It's been tried for 80 years, but it hasn't been done. You know this problem is not a security issue, it's not an economic problem. This problem is a political problem. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The place to solve this is under the roof of this House.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0033par0287	Mr. Zenderlioglu, thank you. Your time is up, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0032par0289	I'll put it in a sentence.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0033par0290	Please...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0032par0291	In a sentence. Seneca says that man is a broken reed of nature. The entire universe's weapon doesn't have to kill him. Two drops of water on his mouth is enough to kill him. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0034par0295	Thank you, Mr. Zenderlioglu. Now it's time for Mr. Sırrı Sakık. Here you go, Mr. Sakek. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0035par0300	Mr. President, dear friends, I'd like to share my thoughts with you on behalf of my group on the Defense Industry budget. I salute all of you, but I wish our congressman friends were sensitive to these important budget talks, what we're talking about, what we're discussing... unfortunately, that's Parliament! I'd like to start by quoting the atrocities of a Vietnamese veteran living in Vietnam. It says: "You enter a village where a thousand-pound bomb is dropped on it. You don't have a problem with taking prisoners because there's no one left to take prisoners with you. You don't know if the people who were killed are Vietnamese, you can't put people together, which is what our people need to understand. Napalm bombs were dropped on the people of this country. There was no way to tell what happened. You come to a place, people are crooked, it's irrational. You get close to a piece, you don't know if it's human or animal. And now that we're home, we don't have the courage to say that there was a time when things were wrong. And because we can't show it, we can't look our children in the eyes today. Now, there's been a conflict in our country for 30 years, whether you call it a low-density war or war in its name.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0036par0303	Drop the guns, drop the guns!
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0035par0304	I mean, war is a savage against humanity. It's a pity that all this violence...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0036par0305	Nothing will happen if the guns are dropped.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0035par0306	What do you call it? What are you yelling about? Is it only your duty to shout? From the day you arrived to the day you stood on this stand, you're making small talk out of it.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0036par0307	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0035par0308	What do you think? What do you say? Don't you have anything else to say? Mr. President, why...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0037par0310	Please General Kurula... please... you're right, General Kurula sir, please...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0038par0311	Mind your business, don't bother! Drop the war, drop the gun!
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0037par0312	Mr. Akar, please...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0039par0313	You know, you taste like pumpkins in this Parliament. You're making it taste like zucchini! Mr. President, dear friends, for what it's worth, those who feed on war say that when the war comes, when the fight comes on. Now, we're going through a conflicting environment in this country for nearly thirty years. I mean, call it what you want, but people are dying here. That vet I just told you about from Vietnam, he's in our country today... look, we lost 24 soldiers before October 24th. We don't approve of this, we see every dead person as a part of our heart, but in the next operations, nearly 40,000,000 Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) guerrillas were massacred with these weapons in the Plains of Kazan, and now, 50 days have passed in Malatya, 19 bodies are unrecognizable. So what just happened in Vietnam... here, go, you'll see how the bodies are torn apart at Malatya Forensics Center, and some of the bodies have only one foot left. You're a parliamentarian, you've got a group, you've got a promise to say against it. If there's a crime against humanity, not by saying it, but how can we stop it, how can we make it...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0040par0315	I'll tell you in a minute.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0039par0316	Look, there's a national defense budget being discussed here. These soldiers in this budget have long created countries within the country, created urbanities within the city, and were constantly separated from the public and became a privileged class. Now, we know all this. Look, there are 2,300,000 Chinese Army with the world's largest armies. There are 191 generals here. We have 120,000 soldiers in our country, we have an army, but we have 365 generals. Look at the number of generals in China, the number of generals in us! From time to time, you say, "Sir, you've arrested everyone. There are no generals left." The army is upset about him. What are these generals doing? What's it worth? There's a saying in Anatolia that if you let her loose, she'll either go to the drummer or to the zurnaji. You left these generals loose, they either performed a sledgehammer operation, or they tried to overthrow the chosen ones at Ergenekon's will. So that's the general's job? Look, what does a general get when he retires in our country? It takes between 600 and 700 billion dollars, but a governor who's served 40 years gets 70 billion. What does an ambassador get? He gets 70 billion. That's the privilege. You're a sinner, too. What did you do to a general who gave you the 27th of April? You went, you rewarded him, you bought a car for $1 trillion in gold. The political world kneels before them. Now, they're uncomfortable with us. I don't know why we're not on our knees... Well, we don't kneel to you. We'll criticize you. Every soldier who does his duty has a place over our heads, but every soldier who crosses the line, we knock him down. I gave a speech here last time. We've had people looking at us all wrong. You will know your place, and you will not look down upon us, but you will be under the command of the people. So we say that the Chief of Staff should be attached to the Ministry of National Defense, and that the other day, you had an important promise for democracy, Mr. Minister, that I congratulate you, that they asked you questions: Did you receive instructions from General Staff? You said: "Who is General Staff, and who are we, we are civil wills?" You said. Well, that's the kind of will we want. We want a will that is at the command of Parliament, so we say that a world like this was created because they don't want this fight to end, because they know that their reign will end because poor Anatolian children slave to them from the day the republic was born, to their wives, to their children. Nowhere in the world is there such a arbitrary practice, and nowhere in the world is there a people that raises an army that has not joined the war so high. I mean, the army should be in public service, but to criticize the army, to touch this taboo, it scares a lot of people. We are not afraid, but only one life will take it away from us. We're not enemies of the army, we're not enemies of any of our institutions; the only thing we're enemies of is lawlessness, crime against democracy, and we say it openly. For him, as soon as possible... this Parliament must truly restore our inner peace... look, mothers and fathers -- 50 days, I'm telling you -- 50 days -- 50 days in front of the Malatian morgue... 50 days to get a piece of his child. Aren't you the parents? Don't you have any conscience? What would you do if you had children? War has its rules, war has its morals. Is there so much revenge on the dead? How can you torture a dead person so much? You think you're winning the heart of the Kurdish people when you put a rope on the guerrilla's foot and took it away? You gain the hatred of Kurds. You think you've won us by killing our children? You think you can win us over when you're bullying us? For 90 years, we've been subjected to these persecution policies, the same thing that has been done to our ancestors for 90 years, and it's been applied to our children today. These kids didn't go to the mountain because they liked it. As the Prime Minister said, if the outcome of rejection and denial policies is gone, it must be done, and Parliament must do so. Had it not been for rejection and denial, these young men would not have gone and laid their bodies to death, because they were in denial and denial, and because they were in the mountains. For him, this Parliament also has a duty. This Parliament must make peace openly. As Voltaire said, no army can resist a timely thought. I specifically ask the AKP... we want to be lawful, you want to deal with us. We've been at it for 90 years. Come on, let's all do the halalization together. Come, let's open up the democratic floor, together with this country of ours... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... to make Kurd, Turk, and all the peoples a geography with a mother's heart. Thank you all.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0041par0325	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0042par0327	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0041par0328	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0042par0329	There's bullying, I want your word, sir. Please...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0041par0330	What kind of teasing?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0042par0331	You just heard it. (sing) Yelling in the crowd (sing) (sing)
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0043par0332	You picked on me!
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0042par0333	I didn't mess with you guys.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0044par0334	Wait a second...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0042par0335	You're the one who yelled at the council. He said.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0045par0336	You're yelling!
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0042par0337	You're yelling more than I am, and you're making a mess.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0045par0338	I'll scream every day when you're talking. What do I do?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0042par0339	If you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0046par0340	The secret is, you say everything.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0047par0341	In a minute... please, before I have to pick on you again. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0048par0343	I'm not gonna make fun of you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0049par0344	Mr. President, he's picking on you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0050par0345	What are you going to promise? Are you going to reward him for teasing?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0049par0346	He's picking on me.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0050par0347	Mr. President, your job is to stop the bully.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0051par0348	You're right. Just a moment, sir. Right... one second... let's hear it, sir, what's he gonna say? Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0052par0352	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, put the guns down on the friend just now. He didn't like it when I told him. We, the Republican People's Party Group, are in favor of the brotherhood in the country. Every time he comes to the stand, I don't believe there's a democratic understanding that talks about Turks and Kurds as if only Turks and Kurds live in this country. We all have to express an understanding that will embrace all the peoples in this country. Not only are Kurds oppressed in this country. Yes, this country has problems. Bring them in, get these guns out, let's leave the guns, the individual rights and freedoms to solve these problems, if we don't fight democraticization with you, then you have the right to tell us everything.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0053par0354	Why don't you object to restricted areas?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0052par0355	Let us, together, bring this country to the level of civilization, the most democratic country in Europe, and make it a country where individual freedom and rights are being used. Please, if you just think of this country as the foundation of Kurds and Turks, you can't achieve brotherhood and peace here. If you do, let's all do it together to keep the brotherhood and peace. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Put the guns down, come here...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0054par0360	Mr. Akar, thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0055par0361	Mr. President, we don't have weapons. We'd like to make a statement about that.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0054par0362	No more than a minute, please.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0055par0364	Mr. President, thank you. Just so you know, we don't have guns, we're just as opposed to guns as you are, but we have fighters. All over the world, those who fight leave weapons under two conditions: One, the outcome of the negotiation puts down the gun, and one, is defeated. If you turn around and say that the PKK has been defeated. The PKK has not been defeated here, nor has the PKK defeated the army; we say so, but armed forces form their own conditions. I don't have a gun. We're trying to disarm Turkey. So I'm telling you two reasons why armed forces should drop guns, there's no other example in the world, but let's, together, have a common mind, a common conscience to drop these weapons together, let's do it together, and we're ready to do it, but you think we have the gun. I've been doing politics on democratic ground for 20 years, and I've never been able to... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So we didn't resort to guns and violence, and we're not going to shoot.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0056par0368	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. Congressmans...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0057par0370	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0056par0371	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0057par0372	Mr. President, according to 63, I'd like a word on your conduct in accordance with procedure.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0056par0373	What part of my attitude don't you like?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0057par0374	I'm saying that your attitude, your way of ruling, is against the Civil Code, and against the law. We're having a budget meeting here. Mr. President, in budget talks, parties criticize the government, the government's budget. If there is any blame, it is for the government, and the ministers take their word. We criticize making it work. When the administration is criticised, the four parties of the law are one power, three opposition... the rule of law is not the same, it's different, that's what it is. But from here, the opposition party MP talks, someone talks, talks.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0058par0376	Who's the shooter?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0057par0377	And you promise to pick him up and tease him. You don't know the limits of criticism and bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0059par0378	Now, Mr. Kaplan, if I may have a moment of your time.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0057par0379	Mr. President, since you don't know the limits of bullying and criticism...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0059par0380	There was a mention of a taste of kabak, and he wanted to answer it, so we put two friends to peace. Right now, I don't see any reason why you should rekindle it.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0057par0381	Yes, sir, I want your word against yours.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0059par0382	No, I'm not having a discussion of procedure, if you must know the truth.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0057par0383	You can't be so cheerful.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0059par0384	No, it's not a matter of pleasure, so if you'd like, I could ask the Council's opinion.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0057par0385	You're not in the mood, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0059par0386	No, there was talk of a taste of kabak, and our friend got up, and they explained it. This has nothing to do with my attitude.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0057par0387	But, I mean, I'm saying, it's the government that's being criticized, it's the government that's being criticized. If you promise not to pick on anyone, you'll be doing the wrong job, it won't be an objective mission.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0059par0388	I'm sorry, our friends have been talking to each other, but I don't want to start a formal discussion. Please come in. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, now...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0060par0391	But you can't rule on your own terms.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0059par0392	It's not about pleasure, it's...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0060par0393	How is that possible?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0061par0394	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0059par0395	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0061par0396	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make one thing clear.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0059par0397	Sure.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0061par0398	Now, Mr. Kaplan would like to open a legal debate according to Article 63. The 63rd article has not arranged whether or not a formal debate should be needed. I don't want to say that I'm not commenting on the need for a procedure debate, but Article 63 is not giving the President any appreciation, sir. Therefore, if there is a demand for a formal debate, it must be met according to Article 63, sir. Article 63 does not grant appreciation. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0059par0400	Now, sir, the information I've been given is that you clearly said that the President was not authorized to open it. And so far, it's not as if every procedure debate has been met by the president. That's the information I've been given, but if the groups want it, we can open up a discussion.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0061par0401	I'm not making a request for a formal debate, I've just made a comment on article 63, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0059par0402	Yes, if you have a request, we can consider it. However, in the information I've been given, there is no ruling on the President's obligation to open it.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0062par0403	We have a request.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0059par0404	The default is that the president will be opened if there is a demand from other groups. That's the information I was given.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0062par0405	But we have a request. You have no right to refuse every request of the opposition.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0063par0406	Mr. President, I'd like to make one more statement so we don't have to make another mistake.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0059par0407	Don't mention it.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0063par0408	I don't think there's any need for a formal debate. However, I don't think the 63rd article gives you any appreciation for it. I've been promised to express it.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0059par0409	That's true, too, but that's how we move. The information I've been given is that it cannot be opened at every request.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0064par0410	It's not a pleasure, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit01spe0059par0411	Mr. Kaplan, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to take a lunch break, and then we'll discuss it when you bring up your proposal. I'm gonna take an hour off from the merger now, sir, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0059par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[Continue]] [[Continue]] E) MILITARY CONTROL [[Continue]] We'll resume our eight-round talks on the 2012 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2010 Central Management Computing Bill. The commission is in place. The government is in place. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, our Gaziantep MP Abdullah Nejat Koker is now in charge. Mr. Coacher, please. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0065par0048	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. I salute your high council. Turkey's economy has been an exemplary country in its region with its financial structure, its implementation of budget discipline, banking system and stable growth. The recent economic situation in Europe, especially Greece, has once again shown how important it is to produce, to create added value. In order to increase our capacity for science and technology, we appreciate the efforts of our ministry to increase information and investment in areas such as RD, innovation, branding and university-industrial co-operation. If we commercialize this information, we have no doubt that we will take our place among the ten major economies in the world. In this sense, I see the Industrial Strategy Document, which has been introduced by our Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology this year, as a road map and I find it very important for the development of reforms needed in the microspace, along with the confidence and stability provided in macroeconomic space. Projects such as science, Industry and Technology Ministry technical applications, SAN-TEZ Project, the establishment of RAGE centres and support for techno-entertainment capital are being successfully conducted. Turkey has 43 techno parks today, 32 of which are active, when the number of techno parks established in 2002 was only two. The patent support programme is being worked on new programmes, such as RGE investment support programme and promotion and marketing support programme. The support of KOSGEB, TÜBITAK (KOSGEB) is being increased year after year. We know much better today what we can accomplish if our industry grows competitive. For example, for Turkish entrepreneurs and industrialists, it is no longer a dream to build a domestic automobile, a ship, or a plane. Now, Turkey has that ability and opportunity. Our Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology is working on what incentives and support can be provided for a National Focus Project that could be involved in this matter. So, very soon, we will all experience very important developments in Turkey. Dear lawmakers, developed and developing countries have a special position in the manufacturing industry. Therefore, we find the Turkish Machine Sector Strategy Document and Action Plan, which has been announced and implemented by our Ministry, very important. Through this plan, legal regulations and structural measures that will transform the brand value and brand value into the high machine industry will be the solution to our most important problem, the current deficit. Any support for the entrepreneur is of great importance when it comes to production and employment. I'd like to stress in particular that I find it important that empty parcels in organised industrial areas are assigned to our entrepreneurs on sale or for free. In recent years, we've been talking about branding in Turkey, innovation, nanotechnology and intelligent industrial products. Our cities of Asia Minor began to brand and form the valleys of innovation. With the support of our ministry, many Anatolian cities have developed attraction centers. For example, Gaziantep has been able to set the record for seven years with five organised industrial districts and the largest OSB of Turkey and its brand city and innovation valley projects. Dear lawmakers, our entrepreneurial human resource is our most important wealth. Look, what have we accomplished with our entrepreneurial people in recent years? We won Europe in brand registration. In the last five years, the largest budget in our history has been earmarked for RD projects. We are talking about innovation, nanotechnology, intelligent industrial products and design now, and today Turkey is the largest bus manufacturer in Europe, the largest refrigerator manufacturer in the world in ceramics, the third in steel production, European 2/nist in ready clothes, the European 1 (e.g. in television exports) and one out of three is Turkish in Europe. All of this is Turkey's success in industry. I wish the 2012 budget was a blessing, and I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0066par0061	Thank you, Mr. Coacher. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the second speaker is Hatay MP Orhan Karasayar. Mr. Blackbeard, please.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0067par0065	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Group on the 2012 budget of the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Management, and I salute the Grand Assembly. For Turkey's development, the SMEs are of great importance. SMEs are a series of positive features, such as fast adaptability to market conditions, balanced growth among regions, reduction of unemployment, and opening new jobs, and the fundamental stones of economic and social development of countries. With its share of our economy, the SMEs, who once again reveal the situation, are 99.8 percent of the total enterprises. In addition, the SMEs, which provide 77.9 per cent of total employment, are 55.2 per cent of the total added value. In total investments, they play a role in the development of our country at around 49.9%. According to the 2010 data of the TÜİK (TİK), the COBI are providing a huge boost to our economy by carrying out 60.1 per cent of total exports. During the time of our government, a radical decision was made to include the SME's target mass of services and trade sectors, and KOSGEB became our country's national organisation responsible for the KOBI. With the change of the law, the target population of KOSGEB (KoSEB) increased from 400 to 3.2 million KOBI. With these changes, KOSGEB has made a number of changes in support mechanisms and institutional structures. In this direction, KOSGEB has established a support system that differs from the region, sector and scale parameters of the KOSİ, and has launched a new support system for businesses, entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, business institutions, and executive organisations, the COBI Support Programme, the Contact Project Support Programme, Enterprise Support Programme, the ARGE Innovation and Industribution Support Programme, the Co-operation-Profits Market, the COBI Market for Developments, the SME Support Program. The COSGEB has made significant distances in the spread of the Enterprise Support Programme and entrepreneurship culture, including these support programmes, and in boosting the potential for entrepreneurship. Under this programme, KOSGEB co-operates with various institutions and organisations and organises training activities for women, young people, disabled groups and so on. With this training, KOSGEB trained 12,000 entrepreneurs in 2010, and in 2011 we expect it to exceed 50,000. In addition to all these beautiful developments, KOSGEB runs the RD, Innovation and Industrial Application Support Programme at the point of developing innovative products and new technologies, which are key to the survival of COBIs in the global competitive environment with other support programmes. The Co-operation Support Programme is also available in order to encourage the KOSGEB to strengthen the forces of the KOBIs. This programme supports projects for joint supply, design, marketing, laboratory, manufacturing, service presentations and such. At the point of meeting regional and sectoral needs, especially the the thematic areas in our country's strategy documents, and the projects of occupational organisations for the KOSİ are supported by the the thematic project support programmes of KOSGEB. This programme provides a good basis for developing projects in other thematic areas that are important for our country to close the current deficit. The importance of the COSGEB, which is the lifeblood of our country's economy, for a Turkey that supports our entrepreneurs, that develops competitiveness, that no doubt competes with the world in this transformation process, creates new jobs, and produces high-velocity value products, continues to grow every day. For this reason, our government has given all kinds of support to strengthen the KOSGEB. On this occasion, I would like to ask that the budget of KOSGEB, especially our Ministry, be good, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0068par0074	Thank you, Mr. Blackbeard. Now it's time for the Istanbul MP, Mr. Bulent Turan. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0069par0078	Mr. President, I've been promised the EC PARTY for the Turkish Accreditation Agency budget. I salute you all. One of the important institutions that make up our country's quality infrastructure and oversee it is the Turkish Accreditation Agency, which we refer to as "TÜRKAK." One of the key conditions for being a developed country is to have high standards and to make them compatible with developed economies around the world. Established in 2001, Turkey provided its primary work and development during the AK PARTY, after 2002. We can prove it this way: In 2001, there were only three applications to Turkey, and in 2010, the number increased to 138. Before that, our companies faced a number of obstacles from foreign evaluation agencies, which were largely removed through Turkey's TURKEK. As a result, our entrepreneurs were significantly saved from losing time and money. Not only internationally, Turkey also regulates domestic markets. Various quality control documents and certificates that show the quality of goods and services available in the market play a guiding role in buying for consumers. These certificates and test reports must also be prepared according to procedure, based on scientific and technical grounds. Turkey is now doing it in the most advanced and exemplary way. In addition, the Court of Justice has signed multilateral recognition agreements with the European Union in many areas. Thus, all operations of the institution, including the documents of the past, have been internationally valid. In the same way, international recognition has been integrated around the world and integrated into member states through international recognition agreements. Due to the time problem, the activities of international platforms, which I'm trying to sum up very briefly, have become active in various regional studies. In this scope, they collaborated with countries such as Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Kyrgyztan, Moldova, and began training for the staff of the region. Mr. President, not too many, not ten years ago, this country has witnessed banks sinking from morning to evening. We had become a country where inflation could not account for interest, which was impossible to look at today and see tomorrow, but Turkey had reached a country that was firmly grounded by its vision of the AK PARTI power, able to look to the future with confidence. Not just in politics, but in economics, in art, in almost every area of community life, he tried to bring standard and quality to a large country. During our time of power, our country's vision of Edirne-Kars has become a whole new vision that transcends its borders, perceives change in the world, even gives it direction, and tries to create a prosperous and human new world. Of course, when we talk about building a new country, we see some of our friends who came to the stand to express their views about the budget, they're upset that they're talking to us, and they're trying to drag us into a vicious debate. Not a day goes by where we don't have a scene in this House that we're sorry for, that we don't have a painting that we're damned to death for. Those who think that the country's agenda is just a few issues, they don't even want to understand the distance Turkey has gone from economy to health, foreign policy to education, but the referee is the nation and does what it's supposed to do. However, its authors have been devastated in every election in the past 10 years, and it is not known as a reasonable human attitude to do the same things and to get different results. The opposition won't have any different appreciation until they change their attitude, such as teasing, insulting, not even being able to support the right one.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0070par0089	This conversation doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0071par0090	Bulent...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0069par0091	When we talk about universal quality criteria, we talk about these institutions, which are proud of them, they invite us to the challenge of the days before the AK PARTY Authority. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, there will be no production where there is a fight, cheap politics. A more independent, more democratic political atmosphere is the best way for the model institutions to live. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish you all the best for all of us to have the budget bill that's being discussed.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0072par0095	Thank you, Mr. Turan. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the fourth speaker is Mr. Mehmet Ali Okur. Here you go, Mr. Reader.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0073par0099	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Institute for Turkish Standards, which is part of the 2012 Financial Budget Bill's talks today. I hereby salute your high council. The concept of standardisation is one of the most important strategic tools in the globalized world that allow the development of the country's industry and trade to increase the chances of competition in the international market. Today, developed countries such as America, Germany, Britain, France and Japan have gained power over the world's economy through powerful standardization infrastructure. In order to become a global actor with a sense of strategic governance, the TSE also focused on harmonisation of products and services, particularly the European Union. In particular, in the integration process with the European Union, documentation and compatibility assessments have become very important as part of the free movement of goods. In recent years, the Turkish Institute of Standards has been able to carry out its activities successfully, with its strong and dynamic structure, which has been accepted abroad and abroad, without any funding from the state budget, with all its services. Mr. President, in our government's time, Turkey has increased its effectiveness in national and international areas, and has made many reforms with courage and determination to build our country's economy on a solid foundation. In 2023, we need to follow a national standardisation and quality strategy and develop social sensitivity in order to achieve our goal of seeing Turkey among the top ten countries with the world's strongest economy. Precious lawmakers are collaborating with public, private sectors, universities and consumers, whose basic tasks are given by law, providing all kinds of standards, laboratory and documentation services. The TSE is primarily seeking to carry out its duties within the framework of our industry to promote competitiveness and to ensure better quality of goods and service circulation for consumer protection. On the other hand, an important activity of the institute: from the day it was established, it provides laboratory service in accordance with international rules. Experimental labs, an important technical infrastructure element in standardization practices, operate in Gebze Quality Campus, İzmir, Gaziantep, Çorum, Denizli, Kayseri, Balıkesir, Manisa and Turgutlu, particularly Ankara. The Institute of Turkish Standards, which has been doing great work on national and international levels in recent years, is an indispensable value of our country. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are a budget that supports social sensibility in the 2012 budget, social-wise, disadvantaged groups, production, investment, trade, exports. The 2012 budget is a budget that takes into account the needs, problems of all sectors, such as workers, tradesmen, civil servants, farmers, pensioners, students, investors and industrialists, and especially the purchase power of the paid cut. Our budget is focused on regional development, social participation. Dear friends, we do not act with slogans, empty promises, empty concepts; we make dreams come true; we give meaning to concepts; we fight to find concrete responses to democracy, nationalism, publicism in the most ideal sense. I wish the Turkish Institute of Standards, which plays a key role in competing with the world in this framework, to continue successful work and to bless the 2012 budget, and to salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0074par0109	Thank you, Mr. Reader. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the next speaker is Ankara MP Nurdan Şanlı. Here you go, Mr. Glorious.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0075par0113	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 2012 budget of the Turkish Patent Institute, which operates under the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. I salute the General Assembly. The Farika Order, dated 1871, is the second oldest brand law in Europe. Its significance is the equivalent of the brand in today's sense. Similarly, the 1879 Law on Dissolution is one of the oldest patent laws in Europe. In the early years of the Republic, the Paris Convention, which was regarded as the constitution of the world's fictitious property system, was considered important for the protection of testing property rights. In 1965, the Marka Law No. 551 came into force, and in 1976, accession to the Earth's Fictional Property Organization Association Agreement is one of the key steps in the field of testing property protection in our country. 1994 may be considered a turning point for testing property in our country. At this time, the Turkish Patent Institute, which has administrative and financial autonomy, was established under the Code of Law 544. On November 19, 2003, the Turkish Patent Institute No. 5000 was adopted in order to harmonise and enact the conditions of the Constitution No. 544. Test property rights are at the top of the widest of international issues. As a matter of fact, our country has sided with 13 international agreements in the field of testing property. The Turkish Patent Institute is conducting proceedings on the registration and protection of test property rights that have been protected in order to contribute to our country's technological and industrial development. Recent testing property data is as follows: Patent: In 2010, a total of 8.3 patents were applied to the Turkish Patent Institute. As of the ninth month of 2011, domestic patent applications increased by 32 per cent compared to the same period of the previous year. The number of international patent applications from our country increased by 23 per cent compared to the previous year in 2010, according to international application statistics released by the World Idea Property Agency. Looking at this rate of increase, the number of international applications will reach 1,000 in a few years. In 2010, the Turkish Patent Institute applied for a total of 3,033 useful models. As of the first nine months of 2011, domestic model applications increased by 10 per cent compared to the same period of the previous year. In 2010, the Turkish Patent Institute applied for 85,466 brands. As of the end of 2011, over 115 000 brand applications are expected. In 2010, our country ranked second in the European brand application ranking, and by the end of 2011, it will likely become the country with the highest brand application in Europe. Industrial designs include: In 2010, the Turkish Patent Institute applied for 30,441 industrial designs. According to 11 months of data, around 36,000 design applications are expected at the end of 2011. Our country is ranked third in Europe in terms of the number of designs. Our country is among the most important users of The Hague Agreement on displaying designs. As for the geographic sign: Our country currently has 147 registered geographical markers, and the processing of 145 geographical marker applications is ongoing. While I end my words here, I wish once again my regards to the continued success of the Turkish Patent Institute's staff, the well-being of the 2012 budget for our country and our nation.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0076par0128	Thank you, Mr. Glorious. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the next speaker is Niğde MP Omar Selvi. Here you go, Mr. Selvi.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0077par0132	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group regarding the financial budget of 2012, the president of the Turkish Scientific and Technology Research Agency, whose short name is TÜBITAK. I salute you. In our world of intense global competition, it is possible for a country to have a say in what it has produced, its knowledge, its technology, and its innovations. Our government, which demonstrates its determination to become an information society, continues its activities to promote information-based production, management and education, and therefore gives great importance to the research and activities of TÜBİTAK. TÜBITAK is an autonomous public institution that supports scientific research and scientists in the field of university, public institution and private sectors, which contributes substantially to the development of RD policies, which operate in society for the creation of culture of science, technology and innovation. The resources provided during our government for the purpose of carrying out the work and increasing the activity of TÜBİTAK (TÜBİTAK) have increased significantly compared to the times before our government. The source for science and technology field in the last nine years is far above the source provided in the previous 40 years. The budget for TÜBİTAK has increased by 5 times today in 2002, and the 2012 TÜBİTAK budget has been set for around 1 billion 610 million Turkish liras. This is a clear indication of the importance of our government's RD activities and therefore on TBITAK. In science and technology, what we've come up with today is that, given the data, it's quite pleasant. In this context, I would like to brief you on the successful activities of TÜBITAK (TÜBITAK): TÜBITAK aims to find and support scientists' candidates as soon as possible, to help them grow up, to contribute to human strength, and to support the efforts of scientists to improve their country. As a matter of fact, as of today's 28 scholarships and support programmes, the number of people supported for 2011 has exceeded 18,000. When we look at the funding support and incentives that TÜBITAK provides for the project and scientific publications, about 16,000 projects have been proposed from 1964 to 2003, and around 7,000 projects have been supported; the support budget for these projects is 153 million Turkish liras at fixed prices in 2010. In contrast, nearly 34,000 projects were proposed between 2004 and 2011, and nearly 9,000 projects were supported. The support budget for these projects is also $1 billion,69m Turkish dollars at fixed prices in 2010. TÜBITAK encourages research projects as well as scientific meetings and publications. It encourages international broadcasts through the International Scientific Publications Incentivisation Programme, and has been encouraged to apply for 17,286 as of November 2011. In this way, Turkey ranked ranked ranked number of international reference index scientific broadcasts from Turkey in 2002, with 10,807 broadcasts in the world ranking 22, and 28.194 broadcasts in 2010, to the 18th place. TÜBITAK has continued its successful international activities. In this scope, bilateral and multilateral agreements have been signed so that Turkish researchers can conduct joint scientific projects with their foreign colleagues, and our researchers have increased competitiveness on the international platform. As of October 2011, about 172 million Turkish liras were supported by 1,163 companies for the project, as part of all support programmes conducted by TÜBITAK (TÜBITAK), which has been moving towards the private sector, from the point where private sector RD work will contribute greatly to the boosting of our country's economic and social well-being. As a result, the development of new production sites and new technologies has been opened. As a result of our government's importance, as we look at the point where we are today in science and technology, we see that we have achieved great success. With the wish of continuing this success with efficiency and efficiency, I wish that the 2012 financial budget to TÜBITAK be good, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0078par0142	Thank you, Mr. Selvi. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, our next speaker, Kayseri MP Pelin Günş Bakır. Here you go, Mr. Copper.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0079par0146	Mr. President, I have received a pledge today on behalf of the AK PARTY for the budget of the Turkish Academy of Sciences, for short. I salute your esteemed delegation with my deepest respect and love. And I'm a scientist nominated by three TÜBA members for membership in the Turkish Academy of Sciences in January 2011, and I'm making this speech as a part of the issue. As it is well known, science academys are the highest scientific academic institutions in the country. These organizations are made up of scientists with international dignity who are elected to the academy through very strict rules and multi-level evaluations, providing high scientific merit criteria. In order to be a member of the Turkish Academy of Sciences, you must have received awards or medals from national or international institutions, inventions, theories and models named in their name, and a high number of references, generally accepted in the catalogs of international science references, which have been referred to in classical books or evaluation articles. If you cannot apply personally to TÜBA, you must be nominated by at least 3 TÜBA member scientists. The TÜBA is a total of 82 main members and 17 members of Asia across Turkey. However, there are few and many scientists who have long deserved to enter the academy with superior scientific qualifications. Thus, the new arrangement increased the number of members of the ÜBA (TUBA) to 300, each with 150 members. Dear lawmakers, even though our country has increased its interest in research and development from the illegal national product between 1995 and 2007 to 0.85 per cent, we have much further to go. South Korea sets aside 3.36 per cent of its illegal national product, 3.84 per cent of Finland and 4.25 per cent of Israel for research and development. At the 2002 Barcelona Summit, the European Union Commission stressed that its long-term goal was the competitive economy based on knowledge, and in 2010 the European Union set its 3 per cent target for the non-national rate of research and development. Dear lawmakers, it is imperative that we be able to create a scientific atmosphere that promotes innovation and productivity and rewards perfection in order for our country's growing financial support for research development to be evaluated in the most efficient way. The science policies Turkey will implement today will dramatically affect its future. The engine of modern economies is scientific and technological research based on merit. In the highly competitive world of the 21st century, we have no other way but to support Turkish scientists so that our country can survive. Dear President, valued lawmakers should be based on continuing teaching membership at universities, scientific production and well-designed performance criteria. The main criteria for performance assessment are scientific research and the fact that the results of these studies have been published in scientific journals in Science Citation Index. In recent years, it has been a great joy to have increased the number of scientists targeting quality in scientific research through the positive support of our government. Turkey rose to the world's 19th place in 2008, when the world was thirty-four. In this success, our government's financial support and research, support and scholarships to the elite scientists of the Turkish Academy of Sciences, the integrated doctoral programme, the post-doctoral research programme, also has a large share. Dear lawmakers, science, as you know, is a very serious business. It affects everything from a country's economy to its current deficit. If a country is left behind in science, research and development, then it produces low-end value products, which can't compete with the world, it has to import high-end products produced by a country that makes advances in science, research and development, which increases the current deficit. In order to make our country more competitive in the global economy, we must invest in education, science and technology. Turkey aims to have an innovation economy, which includes companies such as Apple or Nokia, where there is a demand from all around the world. The way to achieve that goal is to invest more in innovative brains, research and development and to raise more engineers and scientists. Dear President, valued lawmakers, when the crisis in the countries of the European Union is over, the competition will be even higher, only the best will survive. Of course, a science academy based on merit is not the only way to develop science in a country, but at least to achieve that goal...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0080par0158	Mr. Copper, your time is up, thank you very much, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0079par0159	I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0080par0161	Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0081par0162	70 respected scientists were forced to resign from this praised TUBA. For your information.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0080par0163	Now, the next speaker is Mr. Gülay Dalyan, the Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Dalyan.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0082par0166	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the National Ministry of Defense's 2012 financial year budget. I salute your high council. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are at the center of our country, Asia, Europe, and to some extent African continents, so our country has influence over the Balkans, Caucasus and Middle East territory. It is also at the key point of geopolitical and geostrategically the most complex and unstable region in the world. Therefore, our government is sensitive to security and defence and does not avoid any sacrifice for our safety and defence. Successful projects conducted by the Turkish defence industry have placed our Turkish Armed Forces in a state of technology-generating position. Our Turkish Armed Forces needed defence systems to compete internationally by reaching 52.1 per cent in 2010, when their national reception rate was 25 per cent in 2003. In addition, our total export of defence and aviation in 2010 was $853,500,000. I would like to remind you of some of the main projects in Turkey's region that will increase the leadership claim and increase the strength of our army in the fight against terrorism. We are a country of the world's envy as education, organisation and institutionalisation, which is the largest in NATO member states since the United States. However, we are aware that military power alone is not enough. Today's defence and weapons technology, based on electronics, can be obsolete in five years. For example, Leopard A1, a very advanced piece of technology in the past, is being modernized in our country to ensure that the A3 tanks do not fall behind in today's technological developments. The prototypes of our national tank project, the ALTAY Project, will be produced from 2012 to begin testing activities. Our air force, which has the most F-16 fighter aircraft since the United States, is the only air force in Europe in terms of the opportunities to train with real ammunition, with personnel presence, discipline, education, resources and abilities. Along with the installation of their aircraft, the project of modernisation of the electronic war capacities of F-16 planes is also successful. In addition, 100 per cent of the local helicopter-building industry was established in our country by the ATAK Helicopter Project, which our government launched in 2008. We aim for the delivery of the first helicopters in April 2012. As part of the ATAK Project, most of the avionic and weapons systems and our electronic software are developed by the original technologies of our defence industry. Based on the wishes of our Turkish Armed Forces, the test and firing of our infantry rifle, combined with the best qualities of infantry rifles, has successfully been completed and ready for mass production. In addition, the MILGEM Project, launched as the Submarine Defence War and Stationship Project, was first discussed in 1996, and was launched into the construction of the first ship Heybelida, which was launched during our government's time, and was launched in January 2007, in 2008. On September 27, 2011, we launched our second ship, Bigada. With this project in our country, for the first time, all design and analysis stages of a warship, including domestically developed combat systems integration, have been carried out nationally. ASELSAN, ROKETSAN, Machine Chemical Industries are on the fast track to becoming an important defense industry worldwide. Mr. President, I would also like to point out that we will not compromise our security strategy until we have given up our general budget understanding, which aims at effective use of our resources and maximum savings. With the help of our Turkish Armed Forces to become regional forces, I believe our country will carry out a new defence strategy to protect its regional interests. It must not be forgotten that the way of peace remains if you have the power to deter it. The Turkish army, one of the world's oldest armies, will continue to be a guarantee of peace and stability through its power. On this occasion, I humbly salute your grand delegation, wishing the Turkish Armed Forces, our country, and our Ministry of State, that the budget of our National Defence in 2012 should be good for our Turkish Armed Forces, and our Ministry, as we thank God for our martyrs who lost their lives in the fight against terrorism.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0083par0179	Thank you, Mr. Dalyan. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, our next speaker is Düzce MP, Fevai Arlen. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0084par0183	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the national Defense Department budget. Before I begin my words, I salute your high council. Defence and security are among the essential priorities of our party. After 2001, countries changed their definitions of threats and their perceptions of threats. Over the world, the concept of security is more prominent than the concept of defence. In parallel with this change, NATO has prepared and accepted a new strategic concept. In defence spending, China follows the United States of America at $114 billion, France at $61 billion. According to Stockholm Institute data, Turkey's defence spending in 2010 is $15.6 billion. This number corresponds to 2.7 per cent of Turkey's illegal national product, and the world average is 2.7. So it is not true that Turkey's defence spending is above the average of world defence spending. When we look at it in numbers alone, it can be said that there is an 18 per cent reduction in defence spending at this time. In fact, it's not a reduction, it's an effective and efficient use of resources during the EC PARTY period, ending the waste of resources in earlier times in our time. Our party's ten-year period of power was a period of many firsts in the history of the republic. Our first national infantry rifle was designed in this period. Our first national ship was designed, built at this time, and delivered to the Navy Command on 27 September 2011. MILGEM Heybeliada is flying the Turkish flag in the Aegean waters today. The design and production of our first national tank, the design and production of our first national drone, the design and production of our Phoenix. Again, for the first time in this period, design and production of national electronic warfare systems for our helicopters. I'd like to point out if Turkey, who spent $19 billion in defence in 2002, could design a infantry rifle in those years. Within about a decade, the total cost of modernisation, which was 20 billion dollars, has been implemented within the framework of the Turkish Armed Forces' needs, and 90 per cent of these projects have been implemented by the participation of our country's industry. It is not satisfied with all the work that has been started in order to be self-sufficient and not to be needy, and the Turkish defence industry has become able to export its product in many areas. Among other things, hundreds of our SME companies have been set up to produce defense industries. The university and RD potential have also been greatly implemented. Turkey has a license to win the battle of technology. Our goal in the coming period is to give the defence industry, which has achieved great success, a continuity and a boost to its activities to make its foundations stable. Our defence industry will be restored to a structure that produces the technologies it needs, its infrastructure is strong, and it can stand behind the systems it produces. In order to conduct these studies, a new regulation has been made in the organization structure of the Defense Industry Undersecretary. After all these steps, our country's entry into the world's defense industry is our main goal among the top ten most advanced countries. In this framework, all land and sea vehicles and drones will be produced in our country. Under the leadership of our Prime Minister of National Defence's 2012 budget, with the zeal of our Minister and his team, I salute your high-profile delegation to our country, our nation, with the idea that Turkey will make significant contributions to its vision and goal.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0085par0195	Thank you, Mr. lion. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the last speaker is Çorum MP Murat Yıldırım. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0086par0199	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group regarding the 2012 budget of the Defense Industry Undersecretary. I salute you and my people. Our Defense Industry Undersecretary performs two important tasks, such as meeting the needs of modernisation of the Turkish Armed Forces and developing modern defence industry. The perception of threats has evolved in this century, changing the concept of defence, security. Our country has been facing terrorism for over a quarter of a century. Turkey stands for human rights and peace in all parts of the world. Our government highlights justice and democracy in international relations. Our power has always taken on national security in a broad way, and has assessed the military, diplomatic, cultural, political and social dimensions of security in a whole. One of the things that comes up when we say defense and security is that legitimacy is not abandoned, that issues such as democratic gains and human rights are not pushed into the second plan. The need for defence and security must be carried out in harmony with the development and protection of democratisation and freedoms. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the most important feet of defense and security is the economic truth. Our government, which shaped its strategy rationally, dynamically, at a minimum cost, with a perspective on the maximum benefit, has freed our country from addiction in many areas. Our country is moving rapidly towards the goal of entering the top ten most developed countries in the world. In this direction, our Defense Industry Undersecretary takes reassuring steps for the future. For example, helicopter production will begin in the next five years and will be able to meet the needs of both our country and the countries in the region. The design and development of a fighter plane and a jet training plane will be completed in the next decade under the planning of the Undersecretary. Low and mid-altitude air defence systems will be designed by our country's industry to produce in the next five years. Again, studies are being conducted to develop a radar-based surveillance satellite with national technologies. Our defence industry also has a great impact on our country's economic development. In particular, in our country, a small tradesman can play a defence industry engine in terms of the development of our industry, the reduction of unemployment. For this reason, our country's COBIs must be given positive discrimination in defence industry tenders. PROJECTS to support our COBI are to be developed. At this point, it is of great importance to the General Assembly of 2011/13, which has suggested that domestic products be met in public purchases published in the September 2011 daily. It also prevents external supply of products produced in Turkey. As this reduces the external trade deficit, it will increase the growth and competitiveness of our country's industry, our SMEs. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are a candidate province for the implementation of the industrial infrastructure and defence project, which has been in my constituency, Çorum, for years. We have also started initiatives since 2008. At this time, we hosted and examined our factories, our Undersecretary of Defense and the top officials of the giant firms who worked in the defence industry. During the process, different studies were conducted under the leadership of our TSO and other industrial institutions. Recently, we and our fellow lawmakers have visited our Chamber of Commerce and our businessmen, our Minister. I thank him for his close attention. You've all heard of the spirit of development of the stock. The stock has grown on its own oil, growing for years without help from the government. Hundreds of investments that he longed for over the years have been achieved in our time of power. Today's agenda has two priorities: one is the iron road, and one is the defence industry. The stock is capable of producing nearly six hundred products used in the defence industry. We're the Most, and we're the Compulsive Businessmen, and we're in favor of that. I believe, hopefully, that this industrial site of ours, which has 40 percent, will make defence a high-profile area in the future, and we will make a great contribution to the defence industry.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0087par0214	Mr. Lightning, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0086par0215	I wish you the best of our budget. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0087par0217	Now on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, İzmir MP Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is thirteen minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0088par0220	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group for Science, Industry and Technology in 2012. First of all, I salute our General Assembly. Under a decree issued on 8 June 2011, the former name was the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, and some units were also created by a change of name within the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, and some units were transferred to the Ministry of Customs and Trade. Dear lawmakers, as of the date of which this decree was issued, the head of the department of the Ministry's headquarters and those in higher positions, the governors and vice-principals of the province in the country were first appointed to the council, and the vice-principals were placed in the investigative staff. The ministry has only been appointed Deputy Minister and Undersecretary of the Ministry since then. A serious budget allocation is a serious handicap in the country's ministry, which is expected to determine and implement the country's policy of science, industry and technology, for about six months, perhaps longer, to run its higher-level duties with power of attorney. Management is a situation that can give birth to a vacuum. In fact, this kind of practice continues in many ministries after the release of that decree. Dear lawmakers, the economy that generates needs to be provided with an environment that will protect our own entrepreneur from extreme competition in domestic and external markets and will provide the same conditions. When you can't provide this environment, you can also tell our entrepreneur, as it still exists, to produce and sell it cheaply. If you can't do it, let it go, because imports are getting cheaper anyway. This different and wrong perspective, I'm guessing, is the most important problem our entrepreneur faces today. When it comes to output prices, you can promote global competition and world prices, but when it comes to input prices, you're not talking about competition, you're not talking about world prices. Dear lawmakers, in order to reduce the fragility of our economy and make it more resistant to possible crises, there must be a solution to the current deficit of transactions that we stated earlier in our talks. Let's not forget that each unit that is given an open business is contributing to the employment of another country, and there is also an investment that turns into a production economy. The main thing here is the solution to the structural problems of Turkey's economy. The most fundamental issue is the structure of Turkish industry itself. Turkish industry is now largely importing dynamics. This means that production and exports have become a structure based on imports, and the more exports you do, the more imports you become. In this environment, one of the most important factors of our real sector's external debt, the increased debt of its own personal and business capitals, is that our real sector has now become subject to external resources, external debt, and external debt is now being done by the real sector. Dear lawmakers, in order to overcome existing problems, set a goal, and achieve those goals, of course, we need to increase the production power. That's where the COBIs come in. THE SMEs have become protected from large businesses in the phenomenon of new globalization. The whole world has done this, small and medium-sized businesses around the world have become the most important structures, building blocks. Dear lawmakers, in order to increase employment in the country, overcome crises to some extent, and make them more resistant, we need to encourage small enterprises, or we can't encourage these businesses with loan rates, interest rates, which are almost 20 percent like today, and we can't bring them into the economy. Perhaps one of the most important complaints of entrepreneurs is the incentive system. Today, the incentive system is taken from different ministries, given to the Ministry of Economics while in the treasury yesterday, and its failings in implementation are evident, valued lawmakers. If we want to have a new vision, the Ministry must have this incentive mechanism. Our ability to produce technological products, to know how many shares are taken from whom, at this point, comes forward. Dear lawmakers, when we look at our industrial policy, our industrial policy needs to be used to correct strategic sectors and technology policies and their goals. For this, it is important to get results, and some documents are needed to get them. This is actually the document of the Turkish Industrial Strategy, but unfortunately, because it's been published, a thrill has not been able to make an impact, it's kept its place on a narrow scale. Dear lawmakers, perhaps many points of this document can be criticised from this bench, but I would like to bring to the attention the vision of this document: its vision is to become Eurasia's production base in medium and high-tech products. Now, in terms of Turkey, is it more important here to be the production base of this product, or is it more important to produce this technology and this technology-based products? Of course, producing technology and disseminating and marketing these technology-based products worldwide should be a vision that suits our country. And that's where I think this change of vision might have to be done, because it's obvious who's getting their share of the sale of technological products. The original manufacturer receives about 50 percent of the technology, but the manufacturers receive between 1 per cent and 5 per cent, while the rest go to companies that receive sectoral shares of distribution, raw materials, and other products like this. Well, it's obvious who's getting the real cut, valuable lawmakers. Congressmans, when you say technology, what's important is technology development. This law was adopted on 26 June 2001 during the 57th government. So producing techno parks like mushrooms in the country is not the issue, but the important thing is to increase their functionality, to produce technology here, and to provide the desired benefit. Today, techno-parking has turned completely commercial. The cost of being here is much higher than incentives. In this way, it's also about improving the investment climate. The improvement of the investment environment was also established on December 11, 2001, by the principle of the Council of Ministers. It's a very important decision. Today, investment and steps at the point of better economic climate have been taken in 2001, but unfortunately today, when we look at the World Bank's Doing Business 2011 Report, Turkey is ranked 65 percent among the 183 countries during the ease of doing business. Last year, in 2010, it was 60. I mean, every year we have to get better, but it just keeps getting worse and worse. In an environment where profit margins are so low, of course, we have to think seriously about production at every stage. That's also where production is made. Here, the legal status of organised industrial zones was made on 15 April 2000, the valued lawmakers. There was a legal arrangement that could be addressed to the current needs of our OSBs, but as in the case of South Korea, we need to get to work that can take them to higher levels. OSBs have serious problems. These problems, of course, are related to their income; administrative, legal, some problems, problems, but at the very beginning, square meters of land allocation in the OSBs still appear to be higher. Dear lawmakers, therefore investors avoid investing here, and those with resources refuse to allocate there. On the other hand, we can also use our OSBs in urban transformation models. This type of modeling work is available in our country, and there are very serious scientists and appliances that do it. I'd like to make a statement to the Minister in case you need to take advantage of them. Dear lawmakers, the National Movement Party on both the OSBs and our industrial policy has a parliamentary research motion. If we can find the opportunity to do some very serious work on these issues, this proposal, this offer will be supported, and we will have the opportunity to study these issues more seriously and deeply. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to share a statement with you now. This is the 2012 Year Program you see in my hand. After this programme is prepared by the relevant public institutions, it is published and implemented by our government's authorities, the High Planning Board, and then by the Council of Ministers. Dear lawmakers, this program has some very interesting findings on page 164. Look, these are not really new findings, but they were also expressed in the budgets of the Ministry of Industry and Trade last year by speakers of the Nationalist Movement Party. It is referred to as the cheap labor in China and India, where production in some sectors has become straitened, competition has become stronger, and from 2002 the tightnecks in this production have increased, and it continues to talk about the height of the industry's credit costs. I'd like to bring this assessment back to the Minister's office, which has been identified in its publications, in its institutions, and in the next year's budgets, in the coming period, I would say that the solutions need to be dealt with more seriously, as well. Dear lawmakers, entrepreneurial is the source of the economy, and we have to keep this source alive at all times, and I think we need to keep this source dry. With these thoughts, I wish you all the blessings of the budget of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0089par0241	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the second speaker is Mr. Reşat MP. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0090par0246	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of TÜBITAK and TUBA. I salute the High Council. Turkey's development, development, achievement of its goals have a great deal of importance and contribution to science, technology, research and development. Forming the future of countries and nations depends on technological developments. The driving force of enrichment, development and development has always been with advances and studies in technology. At the beginning of this work comes RD activities and support for them. Members of parliament, RGE supports are said to have increased every year in the budget, but is the split sufficient or how is the split used within the budget? But what we want to ask you here is, we've raised the RD support. When you say that these supports have any effect on industry, exports, the quality of production, or the development of universities? Besides, of course, that needs to be identified. There are scientific methods of detecting this, too. We can do that with an impact analysis. Was there an analysis of the impact in TÜBITAK? If there's been an investigation, we'd like to know. In addition, how much of the support provided by TÜBITAK is used by universities? TÜBİTAK (TÜBİTAK) has science in its fields, but it also needs to improve its activity in social areas. Turkey has a young population. RD activities that can pave the way for the young population must be supported, cared for, and able to provide it with food and work. In short, science, technology, RD, innovation must be valued. Turkish people are very hardworking. There are vast resources in our country. For example, our country is very rich at the point of its vast energy potential. Can one sector, for example, support all RD activities in the energy sector, except for different majors every year? Congressmans, you've uncovered an Industrial Strategy Document, which is very important as the Ministry. What companies are being provided with technology development? In what sectors do you apply strategy documents? We've been building and editing automotive industry for 50 years. You've been in power for ten years, when are we going to build our own automobile by making new designs? When in our country, whether it is a public sector or private sector, will domestic machines, local electric vehicles, chemical products be supported and encouraged by production and use of RD activities? We'll be able to use it by producing it without importing it? Congressmans, in the field of science and technology, our country is not where and where we want it to be. It stems from the wrong policies of the country's rulers. The amount of interest in RAGE shows the country's value for science, technology, growth and competition. We're way behind on RD spending compared to OECD countries in science. THE budget for TÜBITAK and TUBA is very small. With this little money, how will science improve? Let's raise the budget, transfer more resources here. TUBA Presidency, which is linked to the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology under Code 635, appears to be linked to an undersecretary with the current organisation scheme TSE, Turkish Accreditation Agency, COSGEB, TBITAK. The TUBA, however, is not an ordinary government agency. We don't think there's any use in this kind of work, there's no efficiency. TUBA needs to ensure that our country plays a more active and effective role in science. It is his duty to contribute to research institutes in social and fundamental sciences. For such a study, however, the TUBA must be autonomous, above-politicism, but we also see that politics is undermining its power. TUBA will need to consult with state institutions and the government. But so far, we can't say that this has been done properly. For example, MAM, the Marmara Research Center, the International Food and Nutrition Congress. This kind of congress is very important, but shouldn't the scientific developments of Congress be carried out in our country? These conventions are made of big money, they're put to work. These should not only remain in the fields of knowledge, but in practice. Look, there's now a privatisation of sugar factories in our country. The state is selling its factories. As TUBITAK, of course, do you have no opinions about the use of sugar beets sugar, the continuation of beet production, the preservation of production? Can't you get medical work done on this? There are ready foods in our country, GMO productions. Can't they be investigated for the effects on the human body? Short, medium, long-term organic disorders can be detected. Also, if you have any suggestions, how much of this has the government responded to, or which of the suggestions have been introduced? Congressmans, as it turns out, things aren't going well. The main problem is the selection of academic membership. Academy members should be chosen by their contribution to science and their publications, but people who are old and have little to do shouldn't occupy the seats here. Today, almost 2/3 members are determined by the quota of the government and the SEC. And that, unfortunately, is causing unrest in the university community. Politicalization happens, politics intervenes and becomes a staff, but it must not be forgotten that these are places to contribute to the country's economy. We want jobs, investments, production. Let the men of knowledge put forth their suggestions; let them work in peace, secure, with no concern for the future. However, it appears that all institutions and institutions related to the rule of law and higher education are in full control of the political adult -- YÖK, universities, ÜSM, TÜBITAK, TÜBA. Turkey has increased its number of international scientific publications at 14 per cent year-on-year before 2004, while the last five years have shown a decline, unfortunately. In 1997, he was ranked 27, and was ranked 20 in 2004, with rapid rise. If we were to show the same speed, we'd have to move up to the 13th place in 2009, but we didn't. It's been expressed in various circles where it's been seriously paused over the past six years. Political adults, NGOs and universities need to examine the reasons for this and take precautions. However, we also see that the political adult is busy with staffing. Members of parliament, there are science and art centres for the Ministry of National Education in the provinces. High-end students are taken here on a test to improve themselves. But these schools are unclaimed. TÜBITAK can own these science and art centers. Students are a very important resource in our country because they are chosen. There must be support here. AS TÜBITAK, these students can be built into projects, given foreign and domestic support, and brought to the world of learning. As the National Movement Party, we see that the fundamental principle of science and technology policy is that scientists, scientific thinking, innovation, the use of technology in production. As the National Movement Party, we believe it is necessary to increase society's ability to produce science and technology to improve its prosperity. Members of parliament, a climate in our country where social and science and scientific thinking in the field of ideas and art will be brought to life and respected. Turkey's researchers abroad must be supported by TBITAK, who have done important tasks in their fields, succeeded. TÜBITAK must also be opened to the Turkish world. Turkey can become a center of attraction in the Turkish world. The Turkish world scientific research centre of TÜBITAK must be established in our country. Turkish and foreign researchers should be attractive to employment in our country. This can be done by transferring more resources from public sources to RD investments. The private sector's investments in RD and technology production should be strongly supported. R&amp;amp;amp;gt;&amp;gt;&amp;gt;&amp;gt;&amp;gt;&amp;gt;&amp;gt;&amp;gt;&amp;gt;&amp;gt; R&amp;gt;&amp;&amp;gt;&amp;gt;&amp;&amp;gt;&amp;&amp;gt;&amp;&amp;&amp;gt;&amp;&amp;gt;&amp;&amp;&amp;gt;&amp;&amp;&amp;&amp;&amp;&am;&amp;&am;&amp;&amp;&amp;&amp;&amp;&amgt;&amp;gt;&amgt;&amp;&amgt;&amgt; The RGE spending costs of RGE spending should be up to be up to 2.5, WITH TÜBITAK supports, work must be done to turn our universities into a production centre for information and technology. In each province, university industrial centers, technokents, technology free zones should be encouraged. In order to ensure that scientific and technological research, innovations, and patents, depending on this, are transformed into production and social benefits, the national innovation system must be established, technology transfer centers must be established. It is also published by TÜBITAK in the magazine "Scientific Boy" and the magazine "Worshiping Tiny" magazine. The national and spiritual values of the Turkish nation, along with Turkish names, should be explained to our children. Ataturk, flag, homeland, and love of history should be used as a theme in the publications. I also say that these publications should be sent to schools free of charge, distributed to students. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0091par0272	Mr. Right, thank you very much. The third speaker on behalf of the National Movement Party Group is İstanbul MP Celal Adan. Here you go, Mr. Adan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is thirteen minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0092par0277	Mr. President, I would like to welcome the esteemed MPs to share with you our views on the 2012 budget of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration, whose short name is COSGEB. I salute you all with love and respect. Dear lawmakers, even though our time here is limited today, we will talk about small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of the Turkish economy. KOBI is the backbone of all the world's economies, not just Turkey. Despite the level of economic development, SMEs in all countries are the leading forces of economic and social order in terms of the ability to create both numerical and employment. It is the social ground of democracy that the Justice and Development Party has left in its language, but only in its language. Of the total enterprises in Turkey, the share of the SME is 99.5 per cent. 70 per cent of the total employment in our country is from the COBI. Our COBIs produce 38 percent of the added value. Therefore, the Turkish economy would not be wrong to call it a COBI economy. These figures are close to the averages of European countries, but in developed countries, SMEs are 35 to 40 per cent of exports, while Turkish KOBİs share in exports is 13-16. SMEs play important roles not only in economic life but also in social and democratic life. As the SMEs spread across a large area of Turkey, eliminating regional development differences is an important force to keep democratic life alive with the spread of property, creating employment, providing justice in the revenue distribution and sustaining them. The most dynamic elements of Anatolia are KOBI. The SMEs suffer the production burden of the Turkish economy. It also acts as a buffer that prevents crises from damagingly affecting society's life. Since 2007, however, the COBIs have entered a period of collapse under the influence of a gradually deepening crisis. THE KOBI are unhappy and in debt. Patience is enshrined with SMEs, who are truly the producer of Turkey and worthy of its national identity. The non-sounding COBIs are at the point of falling into a sense of disintegration. They had to keep their current businesses alive by selling their own assets. Like on KOSGEB loans, many KOBIs are busy with show credits. COSGEB has begun to take over the role of financial institutions, away from its original mission today, which is to increase the competitiveness and levels of the COBIs, and has become an institution that covers loan rates for loans given to the SMEs. This is easily removed from the budget presentation speech of the Minister's Ministry at the Plan and Budget Commission. In his speech, he says that KOSGEB loans didn't mean anything in the years before them, that they provided a large amount of loans after they came to power after 2002, but, as we're all aware of -- they say themselves: By loans that we've provided for nearly 203,000 businesses, the COSGEBs have to pay the $1 billion interest they need to pay. The COSGEB is essentially an institution that covers interest on loans, and it allows for the least term for the creation of a financing-oriented structure. That's not true. Contrary to what the government claims, the government's toy, TÜİK (TİK), despite the fictitious figures, the unemployment in Turkey is not diminishing. The main reason for the increase in unemployment is the neglect and closure of the SME. In Anatolia, small industrial sites, production shortages and shrinking cycles in organised industrial areas also have a tremendous negative impact on employment. Several examples continue to be public bankruptcy and closures. The basis for the increase in unemployment must be sought here. Since the day the AKP came to power, the esteemed lawmakers have made the country poor, destroyed national wealth with privatisations, fought with economic parties, threw away the good from themselves, and the bad from the past or abroad. He acts like a cicada. It does its best to draw our people's attention away from the economy, but our nation's top agenda is the economy. COSGEB is not enough for the growth of our SMEs, the dynamo of the Turkish economy, and it can't be enough. Instead of showing support from COSGEB, more radical, practical support should be provided, and the ministry of the tradesmen and the COBI, which the National Movement Party has expressed in the past, should be established today as a need. The People's Bank must be structured to serve the KOBI. This bank must provide low interest funds to be earmarked for SMEs. The share of the total loans is half of the world's average. On the world average, SMEs receive 38 per cent of credit. This share must be raised to 40 per cent, including a specific programme. The existing ARGE Law is not in favour of the KOBI. A new law must be adopted that may benefit the KOBI. Current laws and regulations contain commandary provisions and penalties. Instead, solutions should be produced in the cooperation of public and SME representatives. The right and reliable industry inventory must be taken out and constantly updated. Dear lawmakers, the Institute of Turkish Standards established in 1960 is an institution that has performed very important functions to contribute to our country's competitiveness over the past 50 years, especially to respect certain standards in commercial activities, to improve our nation's life expectancy. The responsibility of the Institute of Turkish Standards is far greater in a world where trade is globalized, competition is not limited, people are driven towards quality consumption. Turkish Standards, which sponsor thousands of productions, are overwhelmed by this weight. Specially because of TSE practices in foreign trade, he is experiencing serious problems. Importing processes have significant problems with time and cost creatively during customs on TSE-related products. The responses to samples taken by customs for TSE control during imports are highly delayed. This delay slows down the transactions of our importers and slows down commercial life. Another important problem is that the period of the documents related to standards is short, which is the bureaucracy of the calendar, which most of them belong to during the year. The European Union claims that Turkey has a say in foreign trade is based on standards. There is no doubt that the way Turkish goods can acquire a respectable place in the world is by standard. We think the real TSE needs a standard. Dear lawmakers, TSE, as in many institutions, unfortunately has forgotten the corrupt, fundamental function and reason of existence in the hands of AKP governments. Turkey's progress is impossible, with a mentality that does not bring a respectable standard to its products on the scale of the world. Turkey's Patent Institute, the only institution responsible for ensuring the functioning of tested property, is a state-of-the-art institution based on technical and physical infrastructure in its building, which was completed in 2003 during the 57th government. However, the AKP government, which took office in 2002, went to a quick staffing position here, as in many institutions, where experienced employees were dismissed, and AKP supporters were replaced. When we look at patent production as a sign of its transformation into science and technology, Turkey is ranked as the 80th in the world ranking. This indicator is a clear indication that science is not officially involved in Turkey's development and development. Science has become an accessory in Turkey, thanks to the Justice and Development Party's practices. The scientific institutions, which should serve scientific development, research, international standards, RD, are unfortunately a supporter's warehouse in the hands of power. These institutions have become accessories by losing their scientific attributes. Dear MPs, the development and development of a country is measured not by the number of scientific publications, but by the transformation of science into technology. If a country can produce innovation and patents with its universities and use it to trade with an idea property management, that country can develop. The only thing the Justice and Development Party understands about science is that when it comes to innovation and technology, it's about suppressing money and buying technology. It is clear that countries who are content with technology transfers and buying licenses and patents will not go a step further. The only way to save Turkey from being dependent on other states in terms of technology, military equipment and testing equipment is to pursue and properly defined research policies that are persistently followed. Examples of developed countries in science and technology stand in front of us. Let's look at the countries where we've breached the door for tanks, planes, helicopters, missile technology, biotech products. For example, although Israel's number of publications is far behind Turkey, patent production is 50 times further along than Turkey's. Israel, whose population is one-tenth in Turkey, is able to produce technology, gains its power from science. Why can't we do what Israel can do? Dear MPs, the Turkish Accreditation Agency is a very important institution that oversees the goods Turkey has produced on both national and international platforms and aims to bring products to a certain standard. It ensures that our imports and exports are maintained in a certain quality, while Turkish property increases its reputation in the world markets, but it is not given the importance and value it deserves, as do many other institutions. Today, all of the institutions we're talking about are here to increase Turkey's ability to produce on a national and global scale, but let's face it, these institutions are dysfunctional and ineffective in the hands of the AKP's power. It is also impossible for countries in the global market to compete with their own standards, without their own patents. Think of a country where it can work -- a fifth of its population is unemployed -- is it possible for such a country to rise in the global market and the brutal competition market? Dear MPs, we, the National Movement Party, will continue to follow the problems of institutions, which are the basic pillars of the Turkish economy. We also urge the Justice and Development Party's government to stop immediately seeing the economy as an area of interest, exchange, stock market. There's a lot to talk about with the Turkish economy, actually. We, the National Movement Party Group, will continue to voice our criticisms and proposals for solutions during budget talks. We're going to say no to this budget because, as I mentioned in the beginning, we don't vouch for a budget with the AKP as its guarantor, a sense of power that has become the focus of the wrong policies. Before I came here today, I was visited by a delegation from the Istanbul Trade Union. Although the ministers' work areas were very different, they told me to bring up a few vital issues concerning themselves in the environment where two of our ministers were present. I will end my words by saying them as well. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, a rating shall be added to the segregation of the second-rate merchant, 2nd-class merchant, in Article 176 of the Tax Usul Law. Because as it stands, tradesmen and artists are considered second-rate traders in tax and other financial obligations.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0093par0303	Mr. Adan, thank you very much, your time is up.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0092par0304	I'll give this to you, to yourself. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0093par0307	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the final speaker is Mr. Koray Aydın of Tripoli. Here you are, Mr. Aydın. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 14 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0094par0311	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group over the budgets of the National Defense Department and the Defense Industry Undersecretary in 2012. On this occasion, I salute you all. I'd like to begin with the words of a song that was burned in this land about a century ago: The way of Yemen is from mud, My RV is copper, The rich pay the price, Our soldier is from the poor. These verses actually show that the sad stories of poor Anatolian children have been going on for over a hundred years. This is the summary of the Bedelli Law, which has been adopted, and is perceived by the community. Dear friends, there are other views that express the Bedelli Law beautifully. Many young people I have met say that the declaration of military service has fallen from the declaration of a military service, along with the removal of twenty-one days of basic training: "There must be no more use of the declaration of military service. How is that military? This would have to be called a permanent exemption. There are tougher views. Some call it a conscientious rejection of someone who has 30,000 liras. In his corner, Mr. Fatih Altaylı of Haberturk, wrote: "Don't let the wealthy men be in full military service in this manner. Let their criticism be justified. In the lower or middle layers of society, there is no claim to solve the problem of those who are experiencing it. Yes, there has been no intention or desire in the lower and central layers to resolve the problems of those who are experiencing them. Dear friends, that's how our people view this Law, where you reject opposition proposals. In order to make this Law more perfect, this is the image of this law, which you have drawn from the people, especially when you ignore the opposition proposals that will give people, especially those with narrow incomes here, to benefit fairly from this Law, and on the basis of your absolute majority. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the National Movement Party believes that the Turkish nation is made up of equal, respected, and honorable figures. The country considers its ministry as everyone's spiritual responsibility and as a natural consequence of being a nation. Since the National Movement Party has previously shared its four-point view of military service with public opinion, I am not going to repeat it here, but I especially benefit from stressing one issue: Every Turkish citizen must be subject to basic military training for a reasonable period of time, in full equality, regardless of its origin, profession, and status, if necessary, to ensure that military service is carried out under arms. We, the National Movement Party, have made constructive criticisms of this fundamental issue, especially by bringing attention to it, but I think that the Law, which the government assumed would eliminate it, would contribute to the creation of a new image of power in society, along with its vices. The geography we are in should ensure that the Turkish Armed Forces will be equipped with technological resources so that they will not lose their deterrent quality. In this regard, domestic investment and technology in the field of national defence should be first encouraged. The most important factor that affects the development of the national defence industry is that the needs are not structured based on RD. It is critical, but it is imperative that the system needs be met by RD and by national companies. A national defense industry can't be established in a way that foreign partners lead. As it is known, Mr. Prime Minister Heron has recently accused the Israeli side of not being repaired in time. Yes, our Prime Minister complained about Israel. He's made a deal, he's got mutual agreements, every deal has a right to the other side. What do you do? You can suspend the deal or cancel it. It's not appropriate for a country's Prime Minister to make a complaint, dear friends, not to show any intention of using this right, given to you with these deals. Look, Mr. Secretary, the Plan and Budget Commission is informing us that the government has no intention of doing so. He says: "In any agreement with Israel, there is no suspension or cancellation." This applies to the Heron Agreement and to the Tactical Exploration Sensors Project, which we signed to you in 2007. So when it comes to Israel, when it's serious, the AKP's government's voice is silent, it's tied up. Because the only hegemonic force he has put his back to is the one that the AKP puts with him as a partner, and only the AKP's power makes an appearance out of Israel. If the issue is taken seriously and the benefit of Turkey is that Israel does not see a government taking a stand when the interests of the United States are intertwined, it upsets all of us as Turkish nations, and as opposition, we, the AKP, are not able to deal with this situation as MPs. Dear friends, I know that many AKP MP friends of mine who live around here feel the same way. That's what you all say on backstage, but sometimes necessity can make people do things like that.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0095par0326	Speak for yourself, don't speak for us.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0094par0327	Mr. President, I'd like to say something about the radar system established in Malatya Globecik, because it's not a public enough issue, and it seems that the AKP is running a total area of darkening and information pollution. Look, in the Plan and Budget Commission, what our Minister says about the Malatya Globecik radar base: a contract with America, a NATO facility, to be given to NATO, is that much. I mean, he underestimates the job, makes it look smaller than it is. It goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on Turkey is a NATO country, isn't it? Radar says it will transmit information to NATO Air Command, where a Turkish general will also serve, and the information taken at the centre will be forwarded to Eskişehir (Eskişehir) and then to the ship in the eastern Mediterranean, and thus the system will be formed. Dear friends, we all know that's not the case. On such important matters, we have a responsibility to share the truth with the Turkish nation. Look, Iranian Parliament Speaker Huseyin Ibrahimi made a statement just three days ago, like an Iranian general who made a statement ten days ago, says: "We will shoot Malatya." He says, "We will shoot Malatya." We warned Turkey about this. We've discussed this with Turkish officials since the beginning. Don't do that, don't bring this in here and put it under our noses. In this regard, we thought that Turkish authorities would be sensitive, especially considering their previous positions. He says, "We were wrong. We are wrong. If necessary, we will shoot Malatya to protect our own interests," he says. Dear friends, there's a button in your hand; the button is in your hand, you press it, you send the missile; the system detects it; the system has sent it to the minister's headquarters, and the anti-missile is on the move. You're the country holding that first button. For God's sake, wouldn't you do the first attack where this system will destroy it? You can do it there. That's what Iran says, he says: "I won't forgive you, I'll attack Malatya." Dear friends, this is an excellent example of Turkey's sad state of mind in the policy of neighbouring countries with zero problems. You said the Armenian issue, you drowned, you created an Iraqi swamp right under our noses; you didn't speak quietly of the murder of 1.5 million Muslims; now you run the same policy in Syria, as if you were an American muhibi. (Applause from MHP rows) Such an approach, which is not in Turkey's interest, is impossible for us to accept because we see Turkey being sent to a disaster by the AKP, and we regret it even more. Dear friends, when it comes to the hegemonic power of America, the AKP stops talking, you give up everything.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0096par0333	Don't be unfair.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0094par0334	Twenty-two Islamic countries are being transformed into BOPs with the hands of America. America, which had previously been polluted in Iraq, has wised up, now buys itself a new subcontractor, buys a new tong, and you voluntarily envy the American tongs; it does not suit this nation, and we regret that much.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0097par0336	Watch your mouth, Mr. Speaker.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0098par0337	Turkey has never been subcontractor, and it can't be.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0094par0338	Dear friends, don't shout. I know you're all uncomfortable with this, none of you are comfortable with it, none of you are okay with it, and the people who voted for you don't approve of it, and they're all suffering from this situation, and they're all waiting for you to come back from these wrong policies. If you leave with that head, you'll get Turkey in trouble. Our duty is to warn you, and to turn you away from what you used to do.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0099par0339	Don't slander me.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0094par0340	Dear friends, our Prime Minister has sent a message to the conferences of the civilisations, saying, "There is no peace in our region until the Dictators are destroyed. " Mr. Prime Minister, have you just discovered that they are dictators? That's how you talk about America's backs, my lion, my tiger, but remember, the truth is that there is no peace in that region without American and American allies pulling their hands off it, but peace comes to the region under those conditions and the region is brought to peace only under those conditions.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0100par0341	Turkey will bring peace there, don't worry.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0094par0342	Dear friends, this scheme of deception and deception that you carry on in all things will come and fall one day, and you will see that the hegemonic force that you give your hand and ride on your ship will shake you down like this.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0101par0343	Is that what he did to you?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0094par0344	Then you'll be ashamed of all the compromises you've made just to stay in power.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0102par0346	Please, friends...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0094par0347	Because while the nation's history is being written, dear friends, these events in the history process will be carried out as a black page in the entire Muslim world around us, in their history. Because it's also an embarrassment to the future of our nation that you people have taken the role of subcontractor in the Islamic world, which is being transformed, in the past, with Islamic sensitivities, or so on.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0102par0349	Mr. Aydın, thank you; your time is up.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0103par0351	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0102par0352	Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0103par0353	In his speech, Mr. Speaker teased our Group President, our President.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0102par0355	Please, friends...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0103par0356	I'd like two minutes, sir, according to 69.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0102par0357	Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0104par0359	Why did he pick on you, Mr. President? Why did he pick on you?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0102par0360	I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0105par0361	Mr. President, if the Minister is going to respond to criticism, these are criticisms, these criticisms are answered. Please, ask me where the bullying is, and then promise me.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0102par0362	I did.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0106par0365	Mr. President, since when are these criticisms? Since when is this considered a criticism in Turkish politics?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0105par0366	Of course, Genghis Çandar called you Subcontractor.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0106par0367	Do you do politics with justice or do you do politics with hate?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0105par0369	The Subcontractor. He told you, you didn't say a word.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0106par0370	Politics is done with justice.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0107par0371	Know your place, know your place!
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0106par0372	Don't hang your dignity here. [[Noises in MHP rows]] If Mr. Secretary's been a minister in the past, if he thinks he's on this stand in 1999, he's wrong. Turkey is respected in 2011, Turkey has more respect for its reputation and honor than ever before.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0107par0376	Turkey's friends were around in 99. Who's next?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0106par0377	It's not our problem if you're doing politics based on your anxiety and your fears, it's your problem. Depends on how you look at it. From where we're looking at it, we're looking at 2023. But from where you're looking at it, if we can't manage it, the place we can't manage is occupied. It's a wrong mentality. It is evident that Turkey is democratised, Turkey has gained the rule of law, and 327 people are here at the will of the nation. [[Noises in MHP rows]] I salute your high council.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0108par0381	Dear friends...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0109par0382	Mr. President, what did he answer to, Mr. President? He's in the middle. I'm asking now, who appointed BOP co-chair?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0110par0383	The Clave gave it to you?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0109par0384	Did the Clave give it to you, or did you give it to him, or did the law give it to him? US President Bush gave it to me.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0111par0386	Okay, he's in control, guys. Dear friends, it's contained, please... please... please...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0112par0388	Look, politics isn't about gossip. What do you do for politics?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0113par0389	Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0111par0390	Dear friends, please...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0114par0391	We strike Israel, my lord, and Mahir is troubled by our attitude toward Israel. Why would you do that?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0115par0392	I'm uncomfortable with your language, it doesn't suit you. It's not appropriate for the National Movement Party, it's not the style of the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0116par0393	Who killed 1.5 million Muslims?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0115par0394	Your attitude is incompatible with the statement made by Mr. State Gardener.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0117par0396	Congressmans, if I may, on behalf of the person...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0118par0397	Put that finger down! You're still waving your finger! If you're gonna sit down and talk... are you gonna walk up to us? Don't wave your finger here! You're still shaking, put your hand down.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0119par0398	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0117par0399	Could you do it in your place, please?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0118par0400	Put your hand down! Talk where you're sitting.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0120par0401	We're just gonna sit here with your permission?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0117par0402	One moment, sir, one moment...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0121par0403	You have a group vice president there, and I'm dealing with your group vice president.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0122par0404	Mehmet, it's rude!
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0117par0405	Mr. Ünal, please sit down, sit down. Guys, sit down.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0123par0406	Don't wave your finger here!
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0124par0407	I'll shake it! Do I need your permission to sit and get up?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0125par0408	Ma'am, sit down.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0126par0409	Mr. Gardendoor, please sit down. Please... please... Your Honor, please...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0127par0411	Look, I'm talking to your group vice president.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0128par0412	Okay, don't shake it, sit down; if you want to talk, talk now.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0129par0413	I don't suppose we're going to ask your permission!
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0130par0415	Guys, please... Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0131par0419	Dear friends, we're in budget negotiations, and the opposition will judge that the government will respond.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0132par0420	He won't insult me.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0131par0421	He's not insulted.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0133par0422	It is, isn't it?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0131par0423	Dear friends, no insults, no criticism, the government will answer.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0134par0424	Isn't the word "mashah" and "tashion" offensive?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0135par0425	It's a statement, not an insult. Distract detection and subcontractorship.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0131par0426	I mean, where do you guys get off yelling and yelling like that?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0136par0427	That's right.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0131par0428	Dear friends, Mr. Group Vice President's sensitivity, sentimentality is obviously an expression of being caught red-handed, expressive.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0137par0430	Don't demagogue, don't demagogue over there. What's red-handed? Your subcontractorship would be red-handed? A subcontractor is red-handed?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0131par0431	Excuse me. Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, we're in a fight in Turkey. What could you do against the murder of nine of our citizens against Israel? Aren't we going to pay for this, for God's sake?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0137par0432	It's obvious what we're doing.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0138par0433	They set up the missile system.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0131par0434	Sir, it's not a matter of you-we, it's not a matter of you-we, it's Turkey. Were we able to defend Turkey's honor? Didn't the Prime Minister say that the next time an attack on our aid ships, we'd send our fleet? Did we get it? Did we send them, dear friends?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0139par0435	Is that an attack?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0140par0436	Is that an attack?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0141par0437	Of course it did, the ships were sent to another port, you have no idea.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0142par0438	They were taken. Haven't you heard?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0143par0439	Didn't they take two ships? Now, what Mr. Koray Aydın has expressed here is the fire of his heart, the effort to turn the government back the wrong way.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0144par0441	Mr. President, please let him speak from there, there's not so much talk in his place.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0143par0442	What is the AKP government against the murder of 1.5 million Muslims in Iraq? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that we may meet with hope your attitude towards Syria today.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0145par0445	Mr. Chancer, thank you very much, it's on the books, sir, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0143par0446	So I say again, sir, Mr. President, don't let the opposition lawmakers in here take the speech over the group again. It's disrespectful to the government. The government will come forward and answer.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0146par0448	What are you getting into for us?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0147par0449	It's not just your government, it's our government, the government of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0143par0450	Otherwise, it's an expression of being caught red-handed.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0148par0451	Thank you, Mr. Chancer, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0149par0452	Mr. President, I have to protect the honor of my Group President.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0143par0453	He's not the president of the group. There's the government, there's the government that represents your group president.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0148par0454	Thank you. [[Continue]] E) MILITARY CONTROL [[Continue]] Now, on behalf of his people, in favor of Ahmet Berat Kokkar, İstanbul MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0150par0495	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself to speak in favor of the 8th round of the Financial Year Budget Bill in 2012. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, the most important factors that determine the economic development and prosperity of countries are undoubtedly coming at the beginning of technological developments and progress in the scientific field. In the globalized world, rising competition has made production based on technology and knowledge inevitable. Societys that produce their own technology, commercialize their own technology, and present it to international markets are branding the world economy. Our country, with its great goals and ideals, also has the obligation to enter the leading countries in the production of science and technology, and our country is on its way. Changes in political and economic power balances over the past 30 years have fundamentally affected the perception of international relations, alliances, strategic ideas, threats and security, leading to new regional and international balances. The current international system shows the uncertainty and instability of the security environment, especially with conflicts and conflicts in our recent geography. Our country, which aims to contribute to stability and security in its region, to create a peace and security basin around it and to develop business units with its neighbours, plays an active role in its co-operation processes, both as a regional force and through its international institutions. Our country follows a wide range of peaceful, primitive, and effective security policy, including encouraging good neighbourly relations and economic co-operation, participating in humanitarian aid, peacekeeping operations, contributing to restructuring efforts for those under difficult circumstances. Mr. President, our country, which aims at reaching $500 billion exports in 2023, will achieve its goal by increasing its capacity for science and technology, by raising its share of high exports, which is still 5 per cent of our exports, to 20 per cent, by taking the best of the young population potential, natural resources, geography, and the opportunities our history offers us. Our country has also covered significant distances in science and technology in the period of EC PARTY governments, including RAGE, design, brandisation, university-industrial cooperation. In 2002, the TÜBITAK budget, with only 12 million liras, reached $800m in 2011. Again, in 2002, our number of techno parks -- only 2 -- has now risen to 43, and has started producing added value. At the 108 new RD centers, which have only been established in the last three years, 15,000 RD employees work today and are used for billions of dollars in budget research and development. Our rise in Europe in 2011, with more than 100,000 brand applications, is significant in terms of the number of businesses found in the COSGEB database in 2002, rising from 4,000 to 620,000 today, adding support to the backbone of our industry and exports, COBI. Dear lawmakers, our country, which is moving towards its goal of being among the top ten economies in the world, is exporting anti-industrial products to many countries in developing its relations with far-off countries, thanks to its great importance to the national defence industry. Our defence industry, which has achieved a stronger structure with reforms made by our government, is contributing to our country's strategic power by using domestic and national resources to meet the needs of modernisation of our armed forces. In the '80s, we had the defence projects ready, came to the common point in the '90s, and now we're developing a lot of defence projects. In this framework, data from 2010 reached 52 per cent of the domestic supply of our Turkish Armed Forces' needs. Our Ministry of Defense, TÜBITAK, our universities and industrial institutions are still conducting around 70 major weapons, defence and space projects with their joint work. Our government will continue with the same commitment to the development of our national defence industry, which we are proud of. As I finish my words, the Ministry wishes our budgets to be good for our nation, thanks to all our employees, I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0151par0510	Thank you. Now it's time for Mr. Nihat Ergun, Minister of Science, Industry and Technology. Mr. Ergun, come in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 25 minutes. Mr. President, we are in your presence to discuss the budget for 2012 of our relevant, relevant and related organizations. I hereby salute your high council, and give you all my respects. In fact, Turkey has had major changes in every aspect of life over the past decade, and has become an important center of power and attraction in its geography. We have much more work to do together in order for Turkey's achievements to be permanent and to become one of the world's leading countries in 2023. In this dynamic process of changing many parameters around the world, each step we take today will also determine what we will experience tomorrow. There is no doubt that science and technology are the best areas to focus on in order to ensure our country's economic and social development. Every increase in science and technology capacity will be positively reflected in industry to trade, education to health, energy to agriculture, transportation to communication, all areas of life. It will only be possible for our young and great population to become an advantage for us, and only by our transformation in science and technology. A country with a strong tradition such as Turkey has to be a society that is certainly producing information, and the second step is that the information we produce has to be transformed into the ultimate products that benefit mankind. Therefore, for our country, science, industry and technology have become mandatory to study from the same perspective and produce it with common policies. The restructuring of our ministry as the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology this year is a result of the effort to produce answers to the need. Because after a time when macroeconomic reforms are heavy, we are now on the verge of a process where microreforms will be heavy. The micro-reforms we're going to achieve will increase the value of the climate of trust and stability we've achieved, giving our industry, our sectors and businesses competitiveness. Today, Turkey is a country that exports near $140 billion a year and 95% of its exports are industrial products. As our country, we have no chance of finding our competitiveness in cheap raw materials, cheap labor or cheap energy. Such an attitude is similar to the way Nasreddin Hoxha looked outside because the key he had lost in the basement was bright. We need to look and find competitiveness in science, in technology, in RD and innovation, in brand and design, in university-industrial cooperation. Our ministry, with its new name and structure, will approach these areas with a special motivation, which will directly contribute to the rise of our country's competitiveness. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, we care very much about the Industrial Strategy Document, the COBI strategy, and the sectoral strategy documents that we've started to implement this year. These documents show that Turkey is no longer acting with short-term accounts and in the dark, but with medium and long-term plans and strategies as a country that sees its way. In these documents, we've determined the needs of the real sector and the actions to provide solutions to these needs. We've connected the actions to a calendar by which institutions and when. The fact that these strategies are in harmony with each other in different areas today shows us how valuable political stability is. For example, our national strategy for science, technology and innovation, covering the 2011-2016 period, will be in great harmony with our industrial strategy for 2011-2014. The ultimate goal of these documents is to turn our country into a European production and technology base. I'd like to point out something here. Turkey's goal now is not just to produce, but to produce more, but Turkey is now focused on producing quality and becoming a technology base. It also confirms that 23 of the 72 actions in our industrial strategy were prepared to increase companies' technological capacity. The automotive industry is a great example in this regard. We've been very good at manufacturing and editing in this industry that we've been operating in for over half a century, but we don't want to be satisfied with that success. We are working to make Turkey a design centre in automotive, to produce more added value, to create its own brands and models, and to become a hub for new generation environmentally friendly technologies in the future. Looking at it this way, there will be two main features of the next process: one of them is to ensure a high-density transfer in traditional sectors, and the other is to gain significant momentum in areas such as IT, software, nanotechnology, and biotechnology. We, the government, have always trusted our people. When we were able to offer our people the resources that other people have in other countries, we also believed in the great things that this nation has accomplished. In particular, our industrialists have proved by producing and exporting what they could accomplish in the last nine years when the conditions were set for them. Therefore, we are deeply interested in removing obstacles to our people, especially in offering every opportunity to our young population. During our visit to the United States and our visits to other countries in mid-November, we were once again proud of them and our nation, seeing the work of our young friends in universities and important firms. Starting next year, we're holding a convention that brings together our scientists who live abroad every year. With a network that we're going to create, we're going to make our country more supportive of these people, and we're going to make more use of it than our scientists have of their knowledge and experience. We know that our children in Turkey and our young people have the same great potential. That's why from now on, we'll be handing out tablet computers to all our kids in schools, and we'll be starting smart boards in classrooms. This tablet will allow computers and smart boards to be produced in Turkey, and we will expand production and employment opportunities in these sectors, making this technology stronger in our country. One of the things that our Ministry will care about in the coming period is setting up science centers in all our cities. Our children and our young people will be associated with science through these centers, and they will touch science. Science centers will enable our children to learn and develop both research and curiosity and enjoy themselves. In recent years, the ministry has conducted important programs to increase our country's science and technology capacity. Ten years ago, we had no legislation and only two techno parks. In 2001, the legislation was drafted, and today we have 43 techno parks, 32 of which are active and companies are starting to produce technology. Our work, including the SAN-TEZ Programme, the establishment of RAGE centres, the support of techno-entertainment capital, has important support from our institutions, such as TUBITAK and COSGEB. And we're starting to reap the fruits of all this work. In 2010, R&amp;D expenditures increased by 3 times more than 2002 and exceeded 9 billion Turkish liras. By the end of 2011, we will be ranked first in Europe with over 100,000 brand applications. But we are not content with these accomplishments, we are continuing to keep our goals high. So we're going to improve our current support and create new support models. For example, starting this year, we're raising the number of people who benefit from techno-entertainment capital to 500 people from 100 people. We also create new, 500,000 Turkish lira models that support our firms in order to benefit from the second phase of our technologists who have succeeded in phase one. In the I.T. Valley, where we continue our work, we create special attraction centers for our young IT people and entrepreneurs and global brands. With these studies, we aim to increase the share of RD spending in national revenues to 2 percent in 2017 and 3 percent in 2023. Ten years ago, in Turkey, RD spending was in the 35/000ths of the national income, reaching 85 (s) in a thousand today, which is one percent. Of the national income, $230 billion, 35 per thousand were separated by 40 per thousand, 1 per cent of the national income, now $740 billion. He didn't just increase two, two and a half times, but with the increase of national income, his share of RAGE actually increased six, seven times over the last ten years. So, in our production and exports, we've raised the share of high-tech and high-velocity goods to 20 percent. Today it is at the level of 5 per cent. At this rate, our country will become a country that reduces technology imports, and it will also become a country that exports technology. At this point, a lot has been said about TÜBITAK and TUBA, and I'd like to make a few comments about that. Dear friends, TÜBITAK is the government's most influential institution and means of implementing science, technology and innovation policies. It's an institution that implements government policies. It's not an institution that develops policies and does scientific research for those policies, it's not an institution that does technological research. It is the most effective tool in the government's policies of science, technology and innovation. So the need for scientific research now to turn into technology, turn into technological products, to rebuild in line with the concept of commercialization.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0152par0535	Not without basic science, Mr. Secretary, not without mathematics, without physics. INTERVIEWING, SANAY AND TECHNOLOGICAL CONTINUES (TIPLE) ▪ Hence, a new administration, which has been driven by an understanding of commercialisation, which allows scientific research to transform into technological products and commercialisation, has been highly saved and experienced, has also been developed in accordance with the concept of the new era. You should know that the Science Council is already made up of scientists, bureaucrats, and technocrats from different institutions, so there's been no change. The TÜBİTAK Science Board was 13 people, and there was already a scientific board of scientists from the Union of Rooms and Stock Exchanges in Turkey, or from the SEC, or from the government, or from other ministries, where scientists were assigned there, but four scientists and academics were assigned there as well, when they were contacted by the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. Four people have now joined the Science Council as quotas for the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. Three of them are professor-level scientists, and one of our highly inclined businessmen is one of our colleagues, a friend of ours at the Turkish Exporters' Assembly. Mr. Minister, you say that you are a scientist, but you shut down the Institute of Physics, destroyed the Feza Gürsey Institute of Physics. You're talking about science, you shut down the Institute of Physics. So the people assigned here maintain the same characteristics. Dear friends -- as for TUBA -- now, in order to benefit from information, we need to have the right information, and then we need to have accurate information, and then we need to have accurate information, and then we need to have clean information. If the information is correct, if it's accurate, and it's clean, it's very useful, and if it's not, it's hard to take advantage. Now, I will strive to provide you with true, pure knowledge. TÜBA was founded in 1993 under a decree of law. Here's the decree in accordance with the law. We read it, we read it... Again, the government has established TUBA, Tansu Çiller, and Mr. Erdal Inönü as Deputy Prime Minister. The symbol here is Erdal Inönul. I remember him with mercy, for his contribution to science in Turkey, to politics. I'm sure he pioneered the establishment of TUBA. I believe that there is an institution under his leadership, which was established in the idea leadership. And he did good. But let's look at how it was established when it was built: its goals are counted, to honor the scientists... and so forth. See, the prime minister's... But it has to be autonomous... INTERVIEW, Turkey Academy of Sciences, which has a special personality, scientific, administrative and financial autonomy, is established. (ÇT/TK) Now, this is connected to the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. Now, if it's not against scientific, administrative and financial autonomy to be attached to the Prime Minister, then it's not today as it isn't. You can't fool us, Mr. Secretary. INTERVIEW, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOJI SEEN NIHAT ERGUN (Secondly) - Due to its commitment to the Prime Minister today has not eliminated scientific, financial and administrative autonomy, and the expression "scientific, administrative and financial autonomy."
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0153par0550	The problem isn't there, Mr. Secretary, come to the Science General Assembly, the Science General Assembly. Dear friends, I'm on my way. Eighteen years ago, by decree of the law, a warrant was given for successful discovery, patented, award-winning scientists to be honored as original members and members of honor. How much would that be? About 2 per cent of the professor's staff in Turkey. There are 15,000 professors in Turkey today, and 2 per cent is 300 per cent. There are only 82 original members today for 18 years. However, receiving awards and medals from national or international-respected institutions for accession of the academy includes having discoveries, inventions and theories and models named in its name; being mentioned in classic books or magazines; being generally accepted in the International Institute of Sciences, and being referred to in a large number of references. These features are in today's decree, but we have a large number of academics, members of the TUBA Science Board, who deserve to be members of the TUBA...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0152par0552	That's your opinion, Mr. Secretary, the TUBA decides that, TUBA, not you. We acted by seeing that they were also in great expectation and dissemination. This number of scientists had to be able to become members of the TUBA. In autonomy, TUBA decides. TUBA is permanent, you go one day, another minister comes. - Excuse me, I'm on my way. The association members of the TÜBA are young academics. What should be the number, young people who should be encouraged, depending on the verdict 18 years ago? TUBA can select three times as many members as its original members. Although it should be 300 members, there are only 17 members of the ÜBA (TİBA) in 18 years today, when it is possible to be a member of Asia until 900. We have so many young academics waiting to be touched, encouraged... 17 of them... Oh, that's nice! A member of honor will not be a true member, one of our older, self-proved scientists. We also have 39 scientists, close to 40. One of the most important issues is the introduction of foreign scientists to TUBA. In 18 years, only two scientists were able to become members of TUBA -- two scientists, 18 years -- one is Bernard Lewis, and one is a German professor. Dear friends, all this painting shows us that these developments in Turkey have revealed a need for restructuring in TÜBA. Just as TÜBA was established, the government pioneered this issue, and today the government is leading while the TÜBA is restructuring. The government's goal is not to govern the TÜBA, but to touch and withdraw. We're not convinced, Mr. Secretary. INTERVIEW, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOJI SEEN NIHAT ERGUN (TIVIEW) - and will continue to work on TUBA's own administrative, financial, scientific autonomy. Dear friends, today, it's our belief that the membership election is from one channel that created this blockage in TUBA. We came to the point today by identifying the fact that a narrow staff was chosen from a single channel: 10 members were appointed by the Prime Minister in 1993 at the suggestion of TÜBITAK. He has appointed 10 members for 10 members, 20 members. Here are those 10 members that the government has appointed and 20 members who have been appointed by the government. Dear friends, I don't object to my being, but the important thing is that TUBA, our Academy of Sciences, can do much more efficient, efficient work in the future.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0154par0565	Can you show me an example? If we hadn't touched TUBA, we wouldn't even have known about TUBA. No one even knew if there was a place called TÜBA, and now many people know about it.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0152par0568	What did you want and the TUBA didn't do? What research did you ask for and the TUBA didn't? I'm sure more people will know about the work from TUBA. What did you ask him to do, TUBA? What did we do with the State of the Law?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0155par0572	Mr. Secretary, can you show me an example, an example? BlM, SANAYI and TEKNOLOGI SEEN NIHAT ERGUN - We've divided the selection into three channels: the first, current channel, members of the TÜBA (TUBA) will choose themselves, members of the TÜBA General Assembly. The qualifications are the same, they'll be elected members with the qualities I count above. The second channel will be selected by the TÜBITAK Science Board, the TÜBITAK Science Board. The third channel is the members of the CEC General Assembly.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0156par0575	Who's throwing it at TÜBITAK, Mr. Secretary? Who's throwing it at you, Mr. Secretary? Membership, SANAYI and TEKNOLOJI SEEN NIHAT ERGUN (Secondly) - Dear friends, TÜBA General Assembly of Sciences, and the ÜBITAK General Assembly will select members from three different channels. Qualities won't change, same-quality members.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0157par0577	The Prime Minister will appoint the President. There's no way someone's gonna bring in a city bus driver and make him a member of the TUBA. He will be selected from the members of the above.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0156par0579	Who's the SEC for, Mr. Secretary? The second change we make is in the election of the President. It was with the ÜBA General Assembly choosing one candidate and sending it to the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister appointing him. We have placed in front of TÜBA members: Choose three members, set three candidates, and in front of the prime minister will be the initiative to appoint one of the three candidates as head of TÜBA.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0157par0581	We understand now, Mr. Secretary. If the Prime Minister's approval is not important, then why is he going to the Prime Minister? If the Prime Minister's approval is important, wouldn't it be more appropriate for three candidates to go in front of the Prime Minister? You've breached autonomy, Mr. Secretary. Congratulations. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Third, we have reduced the age of the noble members from seventy to sixty-seven. Why? So the change can get a little faster. A lot of young academics grow from below. Please don't say "Drive." INTERVIEWS of academics who are nominated to become members of TÜBA are doing serious work all over the world. To speed up the change, it has been reduced from 70 to sixty-seven years old to the age of retirement in universities. And we've determined the number of noble and Asian members to be 150. He'll be working with 150 royals, 150 Asians. To the current president of TUBA, to the current members of TUBA, not to the noble assembly, nor to the members of honor.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0158par0590	What do you mean, Mr. Secretary? INTERVIEW, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOGY SEEN NIHAT ERGUN (TUBA)... nor did we say anything to the current Council of TÜBA, the board of directors, because of his work so far, we did not enter any polemies. Our scientists can also make criticisms that we don't like very much, it doesn't matter, let them do it, it's the value of this country, they're the value of this country, and I'll continue to care about them. And I'm never going to get into a polemic with them. My job as Minister is to clear the way for our scientists, trying to provide them with endless possibilities in their research. We, as the Ministry, believe that both through TÜBA and through TBITAK, we will finally offer these scientists unresolved possibilities...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0157par0592	TUBA doesn't do scientific research, TUBA doesn't build institutions. In the future, our TUBA scientists will see, and so will our members of the TUBA, who have given their resignations. I say to our scientists, take your time. We can build our own science academy. WAIT, be patient, and you will see that if the Academy of Sciences, which performs better than the Academy of Sciences you have been in until now, does not appear. It's already a decree, and in Parliament, by enforcing this decree quickly...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0159par0596	I'll see you right away, we'll discuss it right away. "Let's discuss the new shape and decide together what kind of shape that new form will be, with this feeling and thoughts, with criticism and suggestions, "I salute all of my fellow lawmakers who contribute to our budget with respect. There were a few other issues, and those are the issues that we can answer in the QA section, and I'm giving all of you a lot of respect to get in touch with them there.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0160par0600	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, if you'll just...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0161par0602	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0160par0603	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0161par0604	Sir, I've listened to the Minister very carefully, thank you for his information. TÜBA was founded in 1993 under a decree of law, and 18 years after that, a different set of regulations were made in TÜBA. When it was founded in '93, as the Minister explained, it was established as an institution of scientific, administrative and financial autonomy, but there is an instrument, which is that there is a scientific board within the TİBA, and this was the result of the selection of academics, scientists, and scientists themselves. Now, 18 years later, the government interfered with the TUBA, changing the structure of the Science Council with a decree on a law. The Science Council of 150 will be raised to 300 people, one third will be appointed by the SEC, one third will be appointed by TÜBITAK, and the remaining one third will be selected by the scientists themselves. Now, SEC and TÜBİTAK, the institutions that are under the government's control. Thus, the scientific autonomy of the ÜBA (TİBA) has been destroyed by giving the Science Council directly to the government, so it's not true to say that we've taken it further. Besides, in '93, there was nothing more natural in the first year than when the government created the core scientist's staff, the Science Board staff. The important thing is whether or not the government interferes with the process after that. There's no such intervention. I submit this information to the attention of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0162par0609	He's on the books, Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0163par0610	Mr. President, actually, we'd like to thank Mr. Secretary for his information. If our President of the Science, Industry and Technology Commission considers this and ensures that the ruling of that law is immediately held in Parliament, we will be contributing as opposition parties to that process. So, we see this Minister's statement as a statement, and we hope that we can discuss the ruling of the law on this right after the budget.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0162par0611	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, now it's time for Mr. Ismet Yilmaz, our National Minister of Defense. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 25 minutes, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0164par0615	Mr. President, Congressmans, before I go into my statements on the National Ministry of Defense's 2012 budget, I salute you on behalf of myself and my Ministry. The 18 billion and 229 million Turkish liras brought before you have been prepared for the aim of the National Ministry of Defence's 2012 budget, a high event in which we carry out our duties within the framework of our national security policy, and to increase our defence strength according to the requirements of the age. The fundamental principle that drives Turkey's national defence policy is the principle of Ataturk, the founder of our republic, of the peace jihanda. In this direction, international relations are maintained bilateral and multilaterally under the leadership of the United Nations, NATO and the European Union, while the country's unity, national independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity and vital interests are protected. Our country's global and security environment is rapidly changing, increasing Turkey's responsibilities. Turkey, as in the past, continues to contribute to peace and stability in its region today, is an important actor in the preservation of world peace. At the same time, we are investing in modernising our Turkish Armed Forces, while taking all the necessary measures necessary to carry out our national and international tasks. I'd like to present to you the headlines of the responsibilities that our military power elements have already assumed in a wide range. The protection of our national interests in our seas, the fight against terrorism, the effective use of technology by our land and air elements, the participation in national measures and international measures against regional instability, active participation in efforts to ensure peace and security from the Balkans to Central Asia, from the Middle East to Africa as part of international responsibility. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I'd like to make further statements on the opinion of our members of the Ministry's budget at this point. First of all, a congressman of ours said, "It's the right thing to say: the politician is a politician." If a review is to be brought, it should be brought to the politicians. If there is a criticism of military service, it should be done to the Ministry of National Defence. This army is my country. It is everyone's army. It's not possible to damage this institution, but it's not going to do anyone any good, and I want it to be clear. We are proud of our armed forces, which are growing stronger every day. To be strong in this geography, to use our freedoms, we need a strong army to sustain our existence. This fact is our common denominator of Turkey. It should be seen by anyone who can say it. Every word that will hurt our army will hurt us, and we will consider any unjust and purposeful criticism against it to be done to us. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our Ministry is to protect the rights and interests of the armed forces. It is our duty to keep our armed forces prepared for war, considering the priorities and suggestions of our Chief of Staff. A ministry, which is its primary duty, takes the view that the armed forces, which are one of the most fundamental institutions of our country in a sensitive geography, are experts in the art and defence; our Chief of Staff receives opinions from relevant units, sends them to our Ministry; we evaluate them in our Council of Ministers and bring them to Parliament. That's what we did in the Badelli Army, that's what we did in the budget. Therefore, if there is a criticism for both, this text is the government's text, which should be criticised by the government. The negotiations are political, but on the one hand the politicians must have politicians to deal with. After that, it is not right to say words to my friends, it is not appropriate. Again, a deputy of ours has stated that our criticisms are for the government to run. It's very true, and we're waiting for it. Your criticism is for us, and we are ready for it. We are at peace with you, but it is a clear injustice to be brought upon my friends who have no say in it. Again, it is another injustice to talk about privileges and to assert views that they cannot answer. We have a general principle that if meat smells, you salt it, what do you do if it smells of salt?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0165par0625	You answer it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0164par0626	This House is a place to take care of all injustices, and it shouldn't be unfair to anyone. If this House does an injustice, there's no other authority left to correct it.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0165par0627	Mr. Secretary, you answer them.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0164par0628	There are different opinions about whether there is a privilege, but let me make it clear that if there is one privilege, it was given by law; our MPs gave it to us, given by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, not by themselves. It's a question of whether or not the MPs have been granted privileges. As lawmakers, we say that the MPs are not privileged, but the foreign minister does not think so, he has a perception that a privilege has been given. Know that there is a difference of opinion as to whether OYAK was granted a privilege. What's in it is that it's not given a privilege, and it's the idea that it's given a privilege to outsiders. However, we say that it is not right for those who accept it so naturally when given a privilege by law to another group when given a privilege by another law. If we don't like the law, we can offer it, we can do everything we can to get it accepted, and if it's not accepted, we'll go to the people, and we'll say, "We tried to make the change we wanted, but we couldn't get it done." You can complain to the people. Many arrangements have been made in this direction. THE Ark of the Police and the Wood are some of them. The difference is that he's better managed than the others. Besides, I think it's the same rights as anyone who gets a voluntary, optional insurance policy every month by taking 10% off their salary. It's not fair to speak against those who have no say here. There's a good principle in judgment, the principle of equality of weapons. Not every decision you make is fair unless you can establish the principle of equality of weapons. It's not for the Clave not to make a fair decision. Against the principle of the inequality of these weapons the other day, an application was held against the members of the judiciary. There were talks that violated their personal rights. You're going to say there's a separation of powers, you're going to talk about legislation, you're going to talk about judgment, you're going to talk about execution, and you're going to criticize the judiciary that's not here, you're going to violate their rights. There's no way to tell if it's fair, if it suits our House. If there is a trial, a criticism must be made to the government, addressed to the Minister of Justice. Politics is not a place to complain, it's a place to solve problems. If you can't figure it out, then you'll come to power, and God knows if you will. Of course, God knows if you can come to power. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, lawmakers, another statement has been made regarding the fight against terrorism in this country. We always say that in this country, the authority to carry arms belongs to those who have been given the authority to carry arms, and no one else has the authority to carry arms, and if he does, he is in violation of the law, and he must be compensated for what he is entitled to. That's what the law government requires. Our struggle is our fight against terrorism, and we're doing this fight against terrorism under the law, and we're going to keep doing it. If there's someone here who needs to be judged, it's those who send people to their deaths, give them weapons, encourage them to act against the law, they're responsible for these deaths. They're the ones who've done the most damage to the people of the region. Look, you've seen it in the papers, too, last time on December 10, 2011, at Mount Cudi, Şırnak 23. Three terrorists in a seven-story cave in an operation conducted by the Gendarme Border Division have been confessed in a two-hour convincing effort. We are here to keep him alive. We say, and at this point we say, as Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said, there has never been a soldier in any army of the world whose heart is purer and stronger than yours. Mr. President, lawmakers, there's been a lot of criticism about the missile shield. And I'd like to bring you some information about that. The Missile Shield Project is not a solo project run by the United States, but America is not outside the project. It is a joint defence project under the NATO alliance. The goal of the project is not the defence of the third countries, but the defence of NATO member states. In this context, only the radar system is built in Malatya Orbsikic, and it is established to contribute to NATO's joint defence system. These studies, launched at the NATO Prague Summit in 2002, were implemented on November 19, 2010, with the ratification of the missile defence report, co-advised by allied countries at the Lisbon Summit on November 19, 2010. The system is not targeting any country, it is clearly stated in its basic NATO documents on missile defence. NATO is also working on joint missile defences with the Russian Federation. A bilateral agreement on the deployment of early warning radar to contribute to the NATO missile defence system was signed on 14 September 2000. The Council of Ministers has the authority to sign agreements under NATO under Article 6 of the Law Against the Council of Ministers to authorise the Council of Ministers for Compromising and Publishing of International Accords 244. Under this law, the agreement was adopted with the approval of the Council of Ministers. The command centre for the system is located at the Ramstein NATO base in Germany. Our Turkish officers will serve as well as allied officers at the command center to be established here. Again, in the words of another deputy, you sent Herons to Israel, why did you not suspend relations and demand engines? A criticism was brought. Ten of the ten HeronESTs, supplied under the urgent needs of our Turkish Armed Forces from Israel, were sent to the company concerned for permanent care under the guarantees of some agreement, particularly the engine. In June, the maintenance of five engines that were scheduled for maintenance in July were completed and relocated to Turkey in October. Now, he says, "Don't take a service that you pay for." On the one hand, you're going to fight terrorism, and if you don't get that service, you're going to say, "There's been a weakness in fighting terrorism." What should we do, the two of them... But we're in power, that's what we did, and if you come to power, you won't buy the service you paid for! We have not always said yes to anything that would harm our country. If our country wins, we are willing to lose. Mr. President, members of parliament, the defence industry is in the face of our country. The basic policy and aim of our government in the area of supplying advanced military installations is to provide all the needs we need from our country. Our main principle is to provide the defense industry with whatever we need from our native country 100 percent. In the beginning, our efforts to increase domestic contribution focused on designing Turkish Armed Forces as of today's national design and equipped equipment and having high-tech technology in this area. At this stage, all of our military armoured vehicles are covered by private sector production from our country. Turkey does not only provide for its needs in this area, but also for many countries through exports. In land vehicles, the development of the main combat tank, which is technologically the most advanced platform, continues with the contributions of another private company. The prototypes of our Altay tank will also be produced from 2012 to begin testing activities. In marine vehicles, as you know, our first ship, the Heybelida Corvet, as part of the MILGE Project, was handed over to the Navy Command on 27 September 2011, at a ceremony attended by our President and Prime Minister. I'd like to explain one more thing about that. Turkish foreign policy... years ago, everyone who goes abroad sees it, who closes their eyes and makes it a night for themselves. Turkey's reputation is much higher than its previous years, and if it has come to this, it has come from the power of Turkey. Turkey also brought power to the EC PARTY and its leader, Recep Tayyip Erdogan. (EC PARTY) It has been accepted around the world; this is Turkey, this is Turkey -- so there's no point in criticizing our Prime Minister, he's the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, he's a world leader.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0166par0644	The Minister of National Defense is above politics.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0164par0645	Today, we are asked if Turkey's weapons are preferred in the defence: is the Turkish army using these weapons, yes, it uses them. It is a sufficient reputation. The weapons used by our Turkish Armed Forces are also purchased by foreign armies.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0166par0646	At the head of your ministry, you have the word "National," you have to be above politics.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0164par0647	Making Turkey strong strengthens us in all areas. The locality in the first national warship was manufactured by 65 per cent and equipped with national war management systems, with the contribution of more than 50 per cent of the subburdeners. Today at Tuzla, our dependency on the surface of surface military ships, along with two billion dollars' worth of assault boats, landing ships, and search-and-rescue ships, is completely over. Turkey is among the top 10 countries in the world. Our composite and steel boats have also served in the fleets of many countries around the world. ASELSAN, who specializes in military electronics, is among the 100 largest defence industries in the world. Turkey is among the number-one countries in the world in the production of military communications, command control systems and electrooptic systems. The manufacturing telecommunications systems are exported to many countries. The Department of Machine Chemical Industries provides all weapons, ammunition, rockets and explosive materials for the Turkish Armed Forces and security forces. In 2010, the institution ranked as the 90th ranking of the Istanbul Industrial Chamber (ISO 500 Companies) with its 650 million Turkish liras. The institution's goal in the coming period is to become a known company in the world market, producing its own technology and original products. In this framework, the national infantry rifle, which we started using the most advanced technologies to give our military the full use of a national weapon, has successfully passed every design and test and will begin the mass production of our national infantry rifle in 2012. Our drone Phoenix, designed by our engineers in the aerospace that creates the extreme point of technology, continues with an increasing performance of flight tests by our drone, Phoenix. We aim for the completion of test flights by mid-2012 to serve the next Turkish Armed Forces. With the mass production of our Phoenix planes, our country will be one of three countries in the world capable of producing drones that can operate in the operational category around the world -- 30,000 feet per hour. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Another strategic aviation project, the ATAK Helicopter Project, is under way. In this case, our first helicopter produced in TUSASK is being tested for flying and shooting. We aim to deliver our first ATAK helicopter to our armed forces in April 2012. As part of the ATAK Project, the vast majority of the avionic weapons systems are developed using mission computers and software using national, original technologies of Defense Industries. In this framework, the production of our first military observation satellite, which was produced in the space field in our country, is about to be completed in TUSASK and TÜBITAK, and is also intended to be launched in 2012. It has also begun construction of a centre for production, integration and testing of all military and civilian satellites that Turkey will need. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, there has been a huge increase in our RD activities in terms of the importance of design and development efforts recently. Research projects for the defence industry have been launched in more than 20 universities. Our country's science and technology infrastructure is heavily used for defence industry projects. The defence industry is also at considerable distance from the participation of the side industry in its projects. Today, only Ankara is producing more than 70 euros as a sub-contractor of the COBI defence industry. As a result of all these studies, the data from 2010 increased to 52 per cent of Turkish Armed Forces needs domestically, to $2.7 billion in sector turnovers, to 52 per cent in the country, to $553m in defence and aviation exports, to $666m in RD spending. The defence industry sector is now the largest RD spending sector in Turkey. In view of our government's 2023 vision, our goal in the defence industry is to be among the top 10 countries in the developed world. This framework will provide production of all land and sea vehicles and drones in our country, and in addition to the work already launched, a comprehensive infrastructure will be created for the production of light-class and middle-class transport helicopters in the airspace field. Helicopter production will begin, and the needs of both our country and the surrounding countries will be met. The conceptual design of an air-class fighter and a jet-training aircraft was launched this year, following the completion of our existing F-16 aircraft. As a result of two years of cognitive design work, design development and prototype production will take place. Low and mid-altitude air defence systems will be designed by our country's industry to be produced within the next five years. Work will begin in the coming period for the development of a radar-based surveillance satellite with national technologies. Technologies and equipment developed by our national defense industry are also powering our Armed Forces, while our country is becoming a driving factor in industrial and technological development. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, in this part of my speech, I'm going to talk about our relations with international institutions and activities that are being carried out together. Turkey has been a member of the United Nations for sixty-six years and has been a member of NATO for fifty-nine years. Turkey, which served as a temporary member of the UN Security Council for 2009-2010, served as the rotating chairman of the Security Council from 1 September to 30 September 2010. Our country announced that it was a member of the United Nations Security Council on May 18, 2011, for temporary membership in the 2015-2016 period. Still under the umbrella of the United Nations, our armed forces continue their contribution to support peace in Kosovo, Afghanistan and the Mediterranean, under the umbrella of the European Union, under the umbrella of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It also contributes to sea operations against sea bandits and piracy activities concentrated in the Gulf of Aden and Somalia. Mr. President, lawmakers are actively contributing to the process of Southeast European Defence Ministers in line with the security co-operation of Turkey, NATO and the European Union, in order to ensure peace and stability in the Balkans. We have handed over to Greece for four years since June 2011, when we pioneered its establishment and hosted the Southeastern Europe Peace Brigade, called SEEBRIG since July 2007. The 2011 meeting of SEDM was held on October 2-3 in Antalya. Mr. President, lawmakers, as well as regional and global priorities, are of great importance to the development of bilateral relations with other countries in the military sense. So far, military training, technical and scientific co-operation with 62 countries has been signed, defence industry co-operation with 43 countries, and military training co-operation with 47 countries. We also continue our military aid activities in Central Asia, Caucasus and the Balkans, as well as in 1992, to friends and allies of our history, culture and language union. Foreign aid has been implemented since 2010 to contribute to the material taken by the relevant country instead of the grant. In 2010, the agreement was reached with 10 countries and the first supply was made to Mongolia. In 2011, 15 countries were covered by foreign military assistance. Mr. President, Congressman, by the way, I'm getting to the end of my speech. The recruitment activities are also being carried out by my Ministry, which is being carried out. I'd like to welcome you to the Turkish Airlines because we've been directing the transportation of our troops...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0167par0672	It's not directing, it's regulations.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0164par0673	...resulting the transfer fee from the recruitment departments in training centers has been terminated and the transport fee is being paid in cash via the bus track.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0168par0674	It's because they don't have security, isn't it, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0164par0675	Turkish Airlines launched a 25 per cent discount on privates and privates starting Monday.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0168par0676	You're doing this because our soldiers have no safety.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0164par0677	And for that, I'd like to thank the Turkish Airlines.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0168par0679	It's your job to secure your life, Mr. Secretary. You can't send our soldiers on buses, our Mehmets.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0164par0680	Mr. President, lawmakers, as part of an agreement between the National Ministry of Defence and Social Security Agency, civilians can also benefit from the Gulhane Military Medical Academy. In 2012, my ministry's budget was brought to you at $18 billion, $229 million. Again, the budget of the Defense Industry Undersecretary is 33,919,000 TL. This is sufficient to cover the costs of staff and management activities. During preparation, we made the principle of maximum savings and efficient use of resources. I wish our 2012 budget to our Ministry, our armed forces and our country's best, and I want to thank you for all your criticism.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0169par0685	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Members of parliament, the last word belongs to the MP. According to the rule, Mr. Lütfu Türkkan is a member of the Parliament of Turkey. Mr. Turkkan, come in, sir. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0170par0690	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the budget of the Ministry of Science, Industry, Technology. I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to express my regret yesterday about the Minister's speeches at the High Council. We're opposition lawmakers, we're here to criticize the government's programme, the budget. If you take this right away from us, the issues that cannot be discussed in this Parliament will be discussed in other ways on the streets, and then it will be very difficult to talk about democracy in Turkey. Let them, let them, here, criticize the ministries, criticize the budgets, criticize the actions. I know the Minister has been in America for a long time. The way he used it yesterday is what they called a street jockey in America, which is a street joke. His earlier statements were from Vinci, Leonardo da Vinci, who also tried to make a few jokes here yesterday. Look, this isn't Harlem. I mean, they make those jokes in the U.S., but they do them in the blacks, they do them in Harlem. This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Minister is not a Negro who roams Harlem, but a minister of the Republic of Turkey. That chair is very important, it needs to be filled well. While filling your words well, you need to fill that chair well. You don't fit in that chair. That's why I'm telling you. Otherwise, I don't care if he's a match or not. So I wanted to express my regret about yesterday's events. We, the National Movement Party, pursue any case against Turkey here, behavior, and we will never give it up. The fact that you're a majority here, that you're 325 people, that you're too loud, I assure you, is not going to scare us at all. You can be sure of that. You'll feel these Bozkurts breathing down your neck, I assure you. Even if we're 52, 42, even 22, the grizzlies will follow you all the time. I wanted to let you know about that. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] It is a very important chance for our city to have the minister of industry from Ableeli, and for him to get out of the city. It's really an industrial city, and it's a very important opportunity for the Minister to get out of a city like this. As MP of the same district, I express my gratitude to the Minister for all the good he's done so far. With the latest applications, however, I see that Mr. Ministry has had some structural changes. So a very important part of the institutions that belong to the Ministry of Industry was taken from the Ministry. I don't know what's the point of connecting technology to the Ministry of Industry when industry needs to be backed up, when industrial production is supposed to be so much, and Mr. Secretary knows as much about technology as I do, so we turn it on and off the phone, so I don't know what's the point of connecting technology to the Ministry of Industry. At a time when Turkey needs to produce the most, Mr. Secretary, I don't know the reasons why it needs to leave so much naçar. I'd be very happy if the Minister could enlighten us on this matter. I'd like to quote you from a newspaper columnist who wrote about economics in Turkey, about industry, about production: a newspaper columnist goes to the grocery store a year ago, buys groceries, buys cleaning materials, keeps receipts. A year later, he goes back to the same store, buys the same foods, the same cleaning materials, and the difference is 50 percent. I mean, we're giving them inflation numbers and stuff. It may make you happy, but in the eyes of the public, this is inflation, which is the kind of inflation that he gives to the materials, food supplies, cleaning materials a year later, as much as he does to the public's eyes. Those other numbers, the technical numbers, they don't get a lot of publicity in the public eye. So this journalist asks me, and then I ask you, is this a fair system when he gives a government worker, pensioner, officer a 4% raise in exchange for these supplies that I bought at 50 percent of the time a year later? Look, I have a very sincere confession to make. I'd like to admit that in terms of the suffering of this nation, this nation, that we're taxing, the people are in very bad shape. Go to the market, go to the market, people don't smile, they're in trouble. The child is another problem, the livelihood of the house is another problem. The injustice of income is so far off the charts. I mean, there's a lot of winners, there's a lot of them, and there's a lot of them, and there's a lot of people who don't really win, and there's a lot of people who don't. We are young people who fought communism before September 12th. Before September 12th, I was the child of a family from a communist country...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0171par0701	Mr Turkkan, thank you, your time is up, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0170par0702	Now I ask you, why is this country still not a communist, despite the injustice of so much income? I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0171par0705	Congressmans, we're now moving on to the question-answer part. Twenty minutes for questions, ten for questions, ten for answers. First speaker, Isparta MP Mr. Korkmaz. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0172par0709	My question to Mr. Secretary of Defense is: when will the appointment of civil servants who won the expert exam in 2009-2010 and whose number is 350? My second question: do you have any work for civilian personnel to benefit from the right to actual service, just like military personnel? My third question: civilian and military personnel who do the same thing in the same room get different salaries, different rights of equity. However, their criminal obligations are the same; they are both subject to Law 926. Do you have any work to remove this inequality, discrimination? Question number four: there are also inequality between Lojman's rights. Fifty per cent of the offices are assigned to officers, 40 per cent to petty officers, 5 per cent to specialist sergeants, and 5 per cent to civil servants. Can't the number of housing assigned to sergeants and civil servants, who are already underpaid, be increased? Our citizens are also wondering if the Isparta Ingrandost Military Department will be shut down. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0173par0715	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. The second question is for Mr. Bayraktutan, our Alderman Artvin. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0174par0718	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. National Defence Minister: The former Military Branch in Ardanuç district of Artvin is later closed. Ardanuk is a branch in the District of Artvin, Artvin Province, Turkey. Due to the construction of the Deeper Dam, the route of the old road was stuck in the dam, and the route was extended by miles. It turned out to be a victim of military service in Ardanuch. Therefore, our citizens living in Ardanuk district have an intense demand for the opening of the military branch. Do you plan to meet this request and open a new military branch in the district of Ardanuç, due to the length of the dam and the difficulty of access to Artvin headquarters? Do you have any work on this? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0175par0723	Thank you. Now, our Kütahya MP, Mr. Scholar Illum. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0176par0726	Thank you, Mr. President. My first questions are for Mr. Secretary of Defense: 1) How far is it from the work of martyrs or veterans in the fight against terrorism to the work of a second member of their family in public? Where are the promises made? 2) Do you have a study to improve the autonomy and social rights of specialists? Where's he at if he's got one? 3) What agreements are still under way with Israel? 1) Where is the province of Kütahya in the process of transforming the area of Simav Organised Industry into a greenhouse-organized industrial area? 2) How will you resolve the problem of businesses that cannot apply for KOSGEB loans because they have a bad record? My final question is, what are the grounds for the removal of the National Productivity Center under a decree of law? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0177par0736	Thank you. Erzincan MP Mr. Illum.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0178par0738	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Science, my first question to the Minister of Industry and Technology is, for the Academy of Sciences, that our famous older scientists had come together, which was practically useless. What did you mean by that? Wouldn't a scientist's experience be more useful, more useful? My second question is that science academys should be autonomous. Why does it bother you that they choose their own members, their presidents? Mr. National Defence Minister: Do you have any work to do in order for the four-year-old petty officers to fall to four? My final question, again, to Defence Minister: Do you intend to take advantage of high nurses, veterinary, pharmacist, health officer, while dentists and medical examiners receive medical compensation according to Article 17, under Article 926 of the Turkish Armed Forces Staff Act? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0179par0744	Thank you. Mr. Demiröz, this is our Scholarship Congressman.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0180par0746	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Science, I'd like to ask the Minister of Industry and Technology: On page 43 of the 2012 budget presentation, you've reached 18 million tons of beets, the highest amount in the last decade. That's true, but I'd like to say that in 1998, 490,000 farmers produced 22 million tons of beet, and in 2003 it fell to 13,000 farmers and 13 million tons, and 18 million tons of beets were produced in 2010 with the families of 17,000 farmers. In addition, 300,000 farmers' families have strayed from beet production. Minister, the Council of Ministers raises the quota of 10 per cent in starch-based sugar production by 50 per cent. Do you plan to make this quota at 10% of the starch-based sugar production quota for 2012 marketing year? On the Candy Board...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0181par0751	Our slap Congressman, Mr. Right. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0182par0753	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask our Minister of Industry: In Tokat districts and districts, there are unfinished organised industrial areas and small industrial sites, when will they be completed? My second question is: There are people working in foreign specialists at COSGEB, who are responsible for the workload, but there are no working guarantees. Despite these people's work, despite their hard work, they seem to be in great straits because there is no guarantee for the future. Do you plan to give these people in COSGEB a royal staff? Next question: how many inventions were patented in 2010? How many patents have been applied, produced? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0183par0758	Our Adana MP, Mr. Halaman.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0184par0759	Mr. President, I'm asking the Secretary of Defense if you've done a favor for those who have money, and do you intend to do a favor for those who don't have money? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0183par0761	Mr. Dinçer, our Istanbul MP.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0185par0762	Thank you, Mr. President. I have two questions for the Secretary of State: Law 6191 has been issued to compensate for the victims of the Turkish Armed Forces for their unlawful opinion and belief without a verdict of conviction, and the application of soldiers who were legally abused in the period following March 12, 1971, although the start of the rights was 1971. Isn't it against the spirit of the law to reject victims of the March 12 coup? My second question: 42 of the Turkish intelligence officers have been caught in Syria, and the international and national media have reported, is this news true? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0186par0767	Thank you. Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0187par0769	My questions are for the Secretary of State. Mr. Minister, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has agreed to add a temporary clause 32 put into the Turkish Armed Forces Act 6191 to compensate for the victimship of those who have been cut off from the Turkish Armed Forces on charges of taking illegal views and beliefs without a verdict of conviction. The Minister's office has rejected the applications of soldiers who were cut off due to their views and beliefs starting on March 12, 1971, although temporary Article 32 has determined the start of rights as March 12, 1971. Isn't it against the spirit of the law to reject victims of the March 12 coup? 2) On May 27, 1960 and September 12, 1980, the victims of retired military coups were extradited by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On March 12, 1971 between the two coups, the resensal rights to those retiring...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0188par0773	Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0189par0774	I'd like to ask our Minister of National Defense: who did you deal with, the treaty of missile shielding in the sphere, the U.S. or NATO? Please remove the information pollution you've created. Second: Is there anything changing in our military and commercial relations with Israel after the Turkish-Israeli tension that began with the Davos process and continued with the raid on the Blue Marmara ship? Is there any military or commercial contract that's been cancelled? After Davos, were any military projects launched with Israel? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0190par0777	Thank you. Adana MP Varli.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0191par0779	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister of Industry, Adana Ceyhan is an organized industry that's been on the run for years. There has to be a change of law to get this place back to life as soon as possible, Mr. Secretary, and that's what you know. Do you have any work to bring this organized industry to life? The second question to the Minister of National Defence: Mr. Secretary, these specialists have a lot of problems with retirement. Do you have a study of how to address these problems? For example, when they get sick, when they get a month's report, their work statements are terminated. Will you be working on that? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0192par0783	Mr. Shooter, Congressman of Mersin.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0193par0784	Thank you, Mr. President. My first question to the Minister of Science, Industry and Technology: Does your government intend to appoint a footballer to the national team with the same logic as your appointments to TUBA? My second question is to the Minister of National Defence: You have repeatedly stated that opposition to Syrian rule is organised in Turkey. What's the budget for that? Is there a budget for this if there is a military intervention in Syria, even though we never asked for it? My third question: the United States withdraws from Iraq. Did they give us some assignments when they left? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0194par0789	Thank you. Now, first of all, our Minister of Science, Industry and Technology, Mr. Nihat Ergun. Here you go, sir. Thank you for the questions of our friends. Mr. Alim Işa: Simav Organised Industrial District is an organised industrial area related to greenhousery, which has been handed over to the Ministry of Agriculture on the subject of agricultural and animal-related industrial areas. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting will then take advantage of the legislation of organised industrial areas and then establish a region related to both animalism and agricultural production. So we've handed it over to them, but we'll keep a close eye on it.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0195par0794	It's yours now, so it needs to be converted into an organized industrial zone. KOSGEB does not do research on corrupt businesses, we provide project-based support. If there's a problem with the company's record, the bank is doing the research. The bank won't give it to me. SO if it's a small COBI operation with a collateral problem, we have the opportunity to guarantee it through the Credit Guarantee Fund. Therefore, they have the means to guarantee it through the Credit Guarantee Fund. On the other hand, the National Productivity Centre, which was supposed to work on efficiency, but was unfortunately one of Turkey's most unproductive institutions, due to the old law. It was an institution that held a convention every year because of its management style, which changed governance year after year, and had very different administrative responsibilities. Taking into account the staff's savings, experience, we have transformed this place into a general directorate by protecting the rights of all our friends, and today, as the National Productivity Centre, the Department of Efficiency, they are continuing to work with special staff in our Ministry. Our Erzincan MP: I think you've got it all wrong. I didn't use an expression like that. Thus, it is possible to assess it in that way because the members of the TÜBA are members who are past the age of members. Members of honor could become over sixty-seven years old -- from the age of seventy to the age of sixty-seven -- but if a scientist has been identified, should have been identified, should have been appreciated, it can be made an honorary member, otherwise I have never used a sentence that would have meant anything to the TÜBA members. TÜBA members will be able to continue their roles in presidential election. TÜBA members have the opportunity to choose 3 candidates for the ÜBA presidency from among their original members, and this is how the ruling is organised. Beet production may have produced 22 million tons of beets in the past years, but Turkey has come to the point of determining sugar policies with the creation of the Sugar Foundation: Turkey's need for sugar and sugar beets production quotas have been created directly. So the more sugar we need, the more sugar beets we have to produce. Now, with our arrangement to use sugar beets-based chemicals in fuel, perhaps the production of sugar beets will also be allowed to expand. The quota for starch-based sugar is an area where we can increase it by 50%. If there's the industry's need, we don't sometimes increase the industry's need, we sometimes increase it by 25 percent, but the amount that we can increase to the maximum is 50 percent, so it's the sugar from corn and similar products that we call starch-based sugar, which is eventually derived from one agricultural product, another agricultural product. The issue of unsolvable industrial areas in the slap: of course, the completion of organised industrial areas is not a one-sided issue for us. The Institution Committee of the Organised Industrial Zone, if they do the necessary project work and finish preparing to get some very serious support from us, not to finish our organized industrial areas...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0196par0803	Madam Secretary, your time is up. Now, Mr. Yilmaz, our National Defence Minister. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0197par0806	Mr. President, members of parliament, a member of our staff has asked if you have any interest in giving the officers a level 4 of the 1st degree? I think the draft was sent to the Prime Minister, and hopefully he'll come to the agenda of the House, and we can all legislate it together. Another deputy of ours asked me a question about the pensions of specialists. The bill on the employment of experts from Turkey's Armed Forces and the National Ministry of Defence staffs to the age of retirement, whose contracts have been terminated due to the age of 45, has been enforced during the passed legislation and pension problems have been resolved. Another question: With Law 6191, was it not possible that the people who were discharged from the military during March 12th would return under this law? Why did you give the opinion? The clause of the law is very clear: the law is applied to those who have been cut off from the military through the closed road. These friends of ours who were thrown -- the path of justice was not closed -- then they come to us with this, saying: "The way of judgment was not closed, but the judgment at the time was not judgment.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0198par0809	That's right, that's right.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0197par0810	However, within the scope of this Law, neither does the Law. If the Supreme Assembly opens up pardons for the proceedings that are open to judicial control, then we can't say anything, but know that those who have been cut off from the military through the judiciary, not just because of their political opinion, have gunned down Mehmet, committed robbery, engaged in conflict; therefore, it is necessary to count them one by one. I think that's when the law against the individual happens. On another matter: Was the fuse shield made with the U.S.? Yes, the contract was made with the United States, signed with the United States, but the clause contains provisions concerning the transfer of it to NATO. I have to be very clear that the same radar as the sphere is used in Israel in 2010. Therefore, we have no doubt that this will be used for NATO's purposes. Besides, since there's been an application against the clauses in that contract, we have the right to cancel this contract. Another congressman of ours...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0199par0814	Minister, what contract?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0197par0815	This is the Globejik contract for radar if it's used against the rules written there, and it's clearly used in the defence of another country outside NATO countries, we can cancel this contract.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0199par0816	Don't make us hit Iran.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0197par0817	Don't worry.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0199par0818	Don't make us hit Iran.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0200par0819	Mr. President, when the questions are answered...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0197par0820	We love this country together. There's no one in this country who lives and doesn't love this country.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0199par0821	Mr. Minister, build on Kayseri, to Kayseri.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0201par0823	Please... Mr. Secretary, continue, please.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0202par0825	Mr. President, members of parliament, another deputy of ours has asked if a military branch in Isparta is considered to be closed, is there a study?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0203par0826	The in-lawst...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0202par0827	There's absolutely no Isparta. In that case, I have to inform you that we want to facilitate military operations. We're gonna take out the backup roll call, we're gonna take out the first roll call, we're gonna take out the military council. We now have military branches where only two people come in a day -- two people -- are less than 700 per year -- and if the distance is less than 45 minutes, it's going to be done online -- then we think that keeping these military branches open is of no use to this country, for God's sake. County military branches across the country, the National Ministry of Defence Information System Project, which took effect on July 6, 2009, have been assessed in terms of efficiency, efficiency, activity and austerity, and austerity principles, and the need for military branches with broader staff and resources in major cities is now in decline, and the population is coming to major cities. Thus, there are no people left in small counties, and our great provinces are growing. The service must be provided from there. The need for military branches in low-population and migratory provinces -- that's a concrete assessment, two people coming in -- has been seen to be reduced. It has a low volume of operations due to a decrease in the need for military branches in low-population and immigration districts...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0204par0831	Madam Secretary, your time is up, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0202par0832	We now have 181 counties.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0204par0833	Thank you very much, Minister.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0205par0834	Sir, do you have any work on civil servants?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0206par0835	There's a request for a statement.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0204par0836	No, there's no such thing as a question-and-answer.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0207par0837	Mr. President, are they going to answer unanswered questions in writing?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0204par0838	They'll answer in writing.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0208par0839	I'll answer in writing.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0207par0840	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit02spe0204par0841	Now, I'm going to have you read separately and vote on the parting of budgets in the eighth round, respectively. The Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, I submit to your votes for the transfer of the central management budget in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 26 ▪ BIRTH, SANAYI and TEKNOLOJI BANK 1. ▪ Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 1,683,566,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 1,974,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 300,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 550,221.000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 70,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 2,236.131,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology adopted parts of the central management budget in 2012. The Ministry of Industry and Trade in 2010, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ The Ministry of Industry and Commerce Final Account for Central Management 2010 I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 676,932,745,14 - Budget Expenses 552.283.659.22 - Canceled allowance: 124,649,085,92 - Refundance for the following year: 17.520.942,56 Those who accept the CECAN (A) ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Industry and Trade was adopted in 2010 as part of the final account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes that the National Productivity Center for Central Management in 2010 will take part in its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 1. ▪ National Productivity Centre 2010 Central Management Final Account I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 14.771.320.00 - Budget Expenses 14.046,931,23 - Canceled allowance: 724,388,77 Those who accept the CECAN (A) ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] - Budget revenue forecast 11.113,000.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 15.556.080,37 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The National Productivity Centre was adopted as part of its final account of central management in 2010. I submit to your votes that the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Management shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 40.30,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, 1. ▪ Central Management Budget for 2012 President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 17.942,500 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.450,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 401,645,500 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained TOPLAM 422.038,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The head of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.090,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes With Funds and Aids 272.038,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 78,904,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Capital Savings 6,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Collection 8,000,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 362.038,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit to your votes that the head of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration of 2010 shall be transferred to the chapters of the final account of central management: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ Central Management Final Account for Development and Support Management of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2010 I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 373,545,500,00 - Budget Expenses 277.075.315.95 - Canceled allowance: 89,880,716,03 - Payment for the following year: 6.589.468.02 Those who accept the CECAN (A) ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] - Budget revenue estimate 304.074,000.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 347.803.774.44 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The head of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration of 2010 has been adopted into parts of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Accreditation Agency will take part in the central management budget in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 40.21 (Turkish AKRODITYON BUILDING) 1. (Turkish Accreditation Agency Central Management Budget for 2012) [[TL]] 04 Economic Affairs and Services 7.665,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 7.665,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Turkish Accreditation Agency adopted parts of the central management budget in 2012. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 8.975,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 10.025,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 19,000,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Accreditation Agency will take part in its central management account in 2010: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2 - Turkish Accreditation Agency Central Management Final Account for 2010 I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 18,039.000.00 - Budget Expenses 6,616,051,02 - Canceled allowance 11.422.948.98 Those who accept the CECAN (A) ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] - Budget revenue forecast: 8.052,000.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 16,670,855,95 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Turkish Accreditation Agency was adopted in 2010 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Institute of Standards shall be transferred to the central management budget in 2012: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 40.22 (Turkish STANDARTS INSTITUTE) 1. ▪ Turkish Institute for Standards 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 33.619.500 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.325,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 184.891,500 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 220.836,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Turkish Institute of Standards adopted parts of the central management budget in 2012. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 189,752,500 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 73,900,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Red and Returns (-) -652.500 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 263,000,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Institute of Standards shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2010: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2- Turkish Standard Institute for Central Management Final Account for 2010 I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 193,335,000.00 - Budget Expenses 166,631,356,04 - Canceled allowance: 26,703,643,96 Those who accept the CECAN (A) ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] - Budget revenue forecast: 250,000,000.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 227,228,426,57 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Institute of Turkish Standards was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2010. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Patent Institute will take part in the central management budget in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 40.24 (Turkish Patent Institute) 1. (Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2012) [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 15.602,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 4,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 695,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 24.655,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 40.956,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Turkish Patent Institute adopted parts of the central management budget in 2012. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 80.984,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 39,016,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 120,000,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Patent Institute will take part in the final account of central management in 2010: Those who don't... Sustained. 2- Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Final Account for 2010 I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 37,113,000,00 - Budget Expenses: 29.267.255.22 - Canceled allowance: 7.845.744,78 Those who accept the CECAN (A) ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] - Budget revenue forecast: 105,000,000.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 86,948.168,21 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Turkish Patent Institute was adopted as part of its final account of central management in 2010. Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency, I'd like to submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2012... Those who don't... Sustained. 40.08................................................................................................................ 1. ▪ Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 1,548,546,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 03 Public Order and Security Services 550,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 07 Health Services 484,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 09 Education Services 59,774,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained TOPLAM 1,609,394,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 174,403,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 1,390.894,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 44.097,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 1,609,394,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency, I'd like to submit to your votes that the final account of central management in 2010 will be transferred to its chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 1,625,082,713,43 - Budget Expenses: 1,324,401,142.22 - Canceled allowance: 300,681,571,21 Next Year's Payment: 10,208,479,07 Those who accept the CECAN (A) ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] - Budget revenue estimate: 1,307,251.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 1,565,128,980,36 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency has been adopted as part of its final account of central management in 2010. The chairman of the Turkish Academy of Sciences, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2012 be transferred to its sections: Those who don't... Sustained. 40.09.............................................................................................................................. 1. ▪ Turkish Academy of Sciences Chairmanship Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 8.591.000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 8.591.000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the Turkish Academy of Sciences was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 85,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 8,391000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 15,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 8.491.000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. President of the Turkish Academy of Sciences in 2010, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 10.816.377.50 - Budget Expenses 8.359.907.25 - Canceled allowance: 2.456,470,25 Those who accept the CECAN (A) ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] - Budget revenue estimate 9.858,000.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 7.770.608,34 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I now submit to your votes that the budget of the National Ministry of Defense... Those who don't... Sustained. 1. ▪ National Defence Ministry Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 185,500,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 18.020.672,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 7.500,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 10 Social Security and Social Services 16,000,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 18.229.672,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit to your votes that the final account of the National Department of Defense will be transferred to the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ National Ministry of Defence's Central Management Final Account for 2010 I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 21,387,876,623,79 - Budget Expenses: 15,101,650,720,88 - Canceled allowance: 6,257,921,416,10 - Payment for the following year: 6,204,293,673,26 Those who accept the CECAN (A) ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit to your votes that the budget of the Defense Industry Undersecretary... Those who don't... Sustained. 40.28- CONTROL CONTROL INVESTIGATION 1. ▪ Defence Undersecretary of Industry 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 02 Defense Services 33.99,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 33.99,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 106,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 33.757,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Capital Profits 1,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Collected 50,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 33.99,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit to your votes that the final account of the Defense Industry Undersecretary... Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ Defence Undersecretary of Industry Central Management Final Account for 2010 I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 38,948,550.00 - Budget Expenses: 31.891.978.52 - Canceled allowance: 7.056,571,48 Those who accept the CECAN (A) ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Budget estimate: 29.252,000.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 23,713,570,60 Those who accept the CECAN (B) ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. Thus, with the Science, Industry and Technology Ministry's central management budget of 2012 and the President of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration, the Turkish Accreditation Agency, the Institute of Turkish Standards, the Turkish Patent Institute, the Institute of Scientific and Technological Research, the Turkish Academy of Sciences, the National Defence Ministry and Defence Industry Undersecretary's central management budgets in 2012 and the final accounts for central management in 2010, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the National Development Centre's 2010. I wish him well. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0204par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will now begin the ninth round of talks. This tour includes budgets for the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Sports General Directorate, Youth and Sports General Directorate, Higher Education Credit and Homes Institution General Directorate, Ministry of Culture and Tourism, State Opera and Ballet General Directorate, General Directorate of State Theatres and the President of Turkey's Writers Association. [[Continue]] == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Members of parliament, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour must write their passwords until the end of the talks and press the promise-seeking button on the screen after introducing their fingerprints. It's for your information. In the ninth round, I read the names of the members of the group and their individuals: Nationalist Movement Party: Bahattin Şeker, Bilecik MP; Mustafa Erdem, Ankara MP; İsmet Büğataman, Bursa MP. Republican People's Party: Engin Özkoc, Sakarya MP; Hülya Güven, İzmir MP; Doğan Şafah, Nüğde MP; Tolga Çandar, Mügla MP; Sedef Küçük, İstanbul MP. Peace and Democracy Party: Özdal Threeer, Van MP; Erol Dora, Mardin MP; Assat Canan, Hakakari MP. AK PARTI: Mehmet Mush, İstanbul MP; Hüseyin Şahin, Bursa MP; Osman Yaşın Bak, İstanbul MP; Mustafa Akış, Konya MP; Zeynep Armazen Bellı, Şanlıur MP; Ayşenur Islam, Sakarya MP; Halide İncekara, İstanbul MP; Cem Zor, Konya MP. On behalf of his people: Leinde Abu Bakir Sırgider, Nevşehir MP; Ali Uzırmak, Aydın MP. Congressman Bahattin Şeker is the first to speak for the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0209par0043	Mr. President, I'm here on behalf of the National Movement Party to discuss the budget for the Ministry of Youth and Sports. At the beginning of my words, I salute you all. I'm celebrating the Department of Youth and Sports with a new understanding. I wish this configuration had been set up in the House, not by a decree of law. Since we've always seen youth and sports above parties, I wish this configuration well. I wish success to our young and dynamic minister, our new general managers and all his staff, who have taken responsibility for our ministry, which has been organised to include our sport, youth, and especially the housing issues of university youth. As you all know, sports, love, peace, tolerance, brotherhood, and unity. In this sense, it is our ministry's primary goal to promote sports, promote sports, promote new athletes, especially amateur sports, and to reward activities in this field, and eventually to bring sports to all parts of the community. The fact that most of our population is young is particularly responsible for our ministry. We love and care about our young people. We see youth as the guarantee and the future of the country. At this point, raising our young people, supporting their personal and social development, offering projects is important for the country's future. In the developing and changing conditions of our day, the understanding of plumbing now leaves its place in youth development centers. These youth development centers must be set up on the whole country's sath to begin at certain points, to cover and grow all the potential for youth. The young generation promises a great potential when it is well ruled, an unhappy and hopeless future when it is not well directed. A new athlete needs to be focused on his identity and concept, to act on an athletic logic that has been recorded from an early age, followed by his performance, guided by his upbringing. Models developed in this field, applied and concluded must be examined. A 15-to-20-year plan must be made. Mr. President, we have valuable lawmakers who, as an example, have done the work of a fellowman who coached the Eintracht Frankfurt team, targeting the 2026 Football Championship. At the end of the talk, I'm going to give these studies to the Minister, starting at the age of four or six, to the work done today. Such athletes should be trained on the axis of basic values such as team spirit, faith, enthusiasm, accuracy, motivation, harmony, discipline, respect, and gentlemanliness. Unfortunately, school sports that operate in pre-school, secondary schools and upper secondary schools are still systemless and inadequate, including our universities. He must remember that it is not enough to organize only good organizations, but to promote participation and success in these organizations should be our real goal. So in our schools, new studies should be made, new leagues between schools, and in these days, amateur athletes and amateur clubs -- the basis of sports -- when we're applying for the 2020 Olympics -- should be valued. The purpose of amateur sports is to free young people from bad habits in our cities, boroughs, neighborhoods and villages. It's a community organization that they build to raise useful young people in society. Unfortunately, the biggest problem with amateur clubs, whose scope is so broad as a goal and target, is disinterest. Even in the remotest part of Turkey, if sports are instilled in our young people, we owe it to amateur sports clubs. Therefore, policies for amateur sports clubs must be reconsidered. We've got a new CEO, from inside the amateur sports club. Hopefully, he'll make it. Dear friends, in our village, in our village, or in our town, you're investing $5 billion in an amateur sports club -- all of you -- from the beginning to the Football Association; 100 lira each for a licensed footballer, 750 lira to confirm licenses to transfer from behind, another team -- 100 lira per year into the league, or 400 lira for a small amateur sports club. When you add footballs and other sporting goods to it, you're costing an amateur club $20 billion. Look, lately we've been seeing in villages and small places, in cities, how much more amateur sports clubs are behind and fewer. In order to address the victim's injury, measures must be taken to ensure income. Sports Toto should help amateur clubs more and help to build amateur clubs. It's time for a radical and permanent construction. Given the problems we face today, what structural and mental transformation we need is evident. As a result, Turkish sports are getting injured, recoiling and losing their resources. Without the basic values of professionalized sports and athlete's infrastructure, we can all experience the heavier processes we're going through today. So it's time to get to the bottom of the business, and under this stone, we all have to have our hands. Another issue that reaches years and concerns all of us is the Olympics. You know, the National Olympic Committee has its work, but it's not enough because it's not enough just to do a mission to organize the Olympics. The main goal should be to raise athletes who stand up and get a degree, support each major, and work with the federations more. Of course, in the Olympics, our goal is to get this huge sports organization. In the world, you know, there's a big race about it, big money is being spent, lobbying is being done, but unfortunately other countries are using a double standard for Turkey -- unfortunately. Finishing sports facilities, facilitating transport, diversifying facilities, ending convention centers, and securing security is crucial in this competition. Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality has a lot of work to do. My dear friends, I'd like to cut through the time-shortness and other important items. The shortcomings in the Reward Rule must be met. The reward of athletes is a great incentive, and rewards must be given as soon as possible. Sports institutes must be supported by the arbitration institution. Sports medicine should be studied. School sports halls must be opened to the public and amateur athletes at sports department facilities and after-school hours. Metropolitan municipalities must especially abandon professional clubs and transfer funds to amateur sports and federations. Our Prime Minister has promised to build stadiums in some provinces. These should be fulfilled, such as my neighboring science in Eskişehir. The new managerial staff has been given, Mr. Minister, the former managers have been made a research officer, but in some counties, there is still confusion. Most gym graduates are unemployed, and should be allowed to find jobs in our Ministry and other sports areas. Organising expenses are being rushed and large coins are being spent, and should be paid attention to them, such as the games at Tripoli and Erzurum. If the money spent on simultaneous organizations is compared, the difference will be seen beautifully. The budgets of the federations and work for the Olympics are being increased. Based on the 2004 and 2008 Olympics, the federation budgets have been increased, but unfortunately, the number of medals has been reduced. Dear lawmakers, recent incidents of aggression and violence have been very common. The fact that fans can't distinguish excitement from tension, that they prefer the goal of performance rather than the goal of performance, that they can't accept defeat as much as victory, that they can't accept the sense of gentlemanliness and kindness, leads to violence in sports. There is the existing Law, but it has not been sufficient, efficient, radical, and permanent. We need to increase the budget of our ministry, which concerns millions of young people. A new incentive legislation must be developed for the construction and reproduction of sports facilities and our dorms. Our homes are inadequate. Our number of homes must be increased at once. From what we're seeing right now, there's a 99% fulcrum rate in the dorms. The private sector can build dorms with a do-and-do model. The dorms must be built within the university campus or near the campus. The safety of the dorms must be maintained, social activities must be developed. The number of students who benefit from scholarships and loans and the financial resources offered to them must be increased. Minister, studies on the development of natural sports and ski resorts should be accelerated in the districts of Bilecik (e.g. Bilecik) and Bozük and Marketyeri. The development of sports, the growth of athletes, the access of sports culture to all parts of society, the basic values and goals that will allow our country to play the lead in almost every major of sports, and as we wish to end my promises, I wish our budget to be a blessing to your high council and to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0210par0073	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. The second statement on behalf of the National Movement Party Group is from Ankara MP Mustafa Erdem (Security). Here you go, Mr. Erdem. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] We'll add ten minutes, three more minutes, 13 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0211par0078	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express the views of the Nationalist Movement Party on the General Directorate for Higher Education Credit and Homes in the budget talks. I hereby salute your high council. Members of the Council of Ministers, the Credit and Housing Institution is a legal institution established by Law No. 351. Today, however, many challenges are associated with many problems. According to Article 42 of our Constitution, no one can be deprived of their rights to education and teaching. Despite the promise, today our students are suffering a great loss due to some inadequacies and impotences in the Credit and Housing Institution. We are now celebrating the 50th anniversary of this foundation, which was established in 1961. I hereby congratulate those who work there, and wish them success. In 2010-2011, the Centre for Loans and Homes was able to only meet 30 per cent of the housing demands of higher education students entering our universities in 2009-2010, but in 2010-2011, the number declined to 16 per cent. Hence, many of our students who come from various parts of Asia Minor to study under difficult circumstances or under difficult circumstances or in various areas of Anatolia are unable to benefit from the constitutional rights of state, and therefore suffer a great loss. There are several reasons for this, but I find it particularly useful to underline a few issues. As you may recall, in our country, colleges have been opened and colleges have been established in inappropriate places. Without discussing the reality of these opening universities, the universities are already open to debate when you add to it their lack of teaching staff. As if all of this would not happen, and increasing the number of university students with populist approaches has naturally caused the loans and dorms institution at universities to become unable to meet their needs. So what are our universities going to be like? How's he gonna get the students to read it? How will he accommodate the students? How will they be able to use their constitutional rights? Now you'll appreciate that I'm out of Ankara, I'm out of here, I'm out of here, I'm out of here, I'm out of here, I'm going to Van, I'm going to Erzurum, I'm going to go to Erzurum, or I'm glad that his kid won the university, or that he can't find a scholarship, that he can't live there, and that he can't do the rights to study in some way? So, there's been some kind of victimization here, and our Credit and Homes Association needs at least to have the potential to meet those needs in line with the country's facts by 50 percent. In this regard, we should also highlight some issues. College dorms are inadequate. You may think that the Kredi Homes are not equipped in this position. But beyond that, we have an organization called the TOTİKI (a) in the country. To whom it serves, what it serves, everyone understands its applications. These institutions, which have been opened to build homes for the poor, to provide shelter for the poor, are, unfortunately, in public, to make rich people rich or affordable for the rich. At least in the future of our country, if these young people prepare a home, a shelter, and our students have the opportunity to train in a manner worthy of human dignity in these shelters, if sports complexes are obtained, they will travel, they will think, they will sit, they will argue, they will investigate, and who will benefit from it? So at the very least, the government will need to give its own person the maximum benefit of TOKI's resources within the service framework. Congressmans, I'd like to draw your attention to another matter. When a child who will apply for loan homes goes there to fill out a form, do you want to take advantage of high - paying dorms? The question is asked. I'm asking you now: Wouldn't a system of learning designed in various economic categories in Turkey be a way to categorize between these children, between education workers, or to exclude someone in some way, to perceive someone differently? So, we think it's probably everyone's right to ask a question, whether we want to or not: we have all the resources, we have all the resources, we have the government, we have the land, we have the historical experience, we have the loan and dorms foundation, but 16 percent of the students who are able to take advantage of it, and only 16 percent of the university winners. Another question then comes to mind, valued lawmakers: I think it would be wise to emphasize that shelters are reduced by state means, and that the question of whether our students are being directed to different equipment or different gains is being manipulated by other shelters instead of these shelters. In the same way, our students who are applying for loans and dorms under the conditions of credit and payment are suffering from a victim. You can appreciate that they're being paid 240 lira, and given the economic resources of Turkey, is it possible that these cubs could be sheltered with this 240 lira in a manner worthy of human dignity, or could they somehow benefit from education? From that point of view...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0212par0085	Compared to before 2002.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0211par0086	Sir, we can tell you about 2002, and about before that. Then you'll see how many people go to colleges and how many percentages are left in the state capacity, there'll be no need for a number dispute. Another thing: When you criticize these young people in universities who receive loans, as a result, are encouraged to pay their loans at least twice the amount of time in school, you have to remember that in today's days, our students face a situation like paying them on a limited period of school time. Dear friends, beloved lawmakers, 600 officers are currently employed at the Centre of Loans and Homes, 7.094 officers in general. When we think of them as a whole, you see that these employees are not treated fairly, they are not treated equally. Now, central managers, country managers, regional managers, dorm managers and employees, especially officials... we have Mr. General Manager here now, because we're proud of him at this point, because he's started at the Credit and Homes Foundation, and he's a victim of the fact that he's not the general manager until now, but he's in a position to start the Kurum and become the general manager. So, Mr. General Manager of Credit and Homes, at this stage, a member of that institution, who was somehow raised by that institution, had to be set up to start and promote themselves in the same way. But I don't want to think that we've been treated as an extremely inappropriate behavior, such as taking the rights of the poor people who are working at the bottom, which is not academic, non-realistic, populist approaches, except for the high-level ski staff. So, it's important to highlight here, especially those who are victims of government officials. These, despite all their troubles, show a more painful view when they try to keep watch at night. They're already victims, and they can't get a decent shift. Somehow, they were receiving bonuses in January, and these bonuses are said to be cut from this January. Now, these seem to be the night shift, day shift, when you take it out two or three times a week, 10 times a month, 15 times a month, the entire organization takes over. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers may boast that a person who was the head of the Agency of Loans and Homes is the head of the institution after the first time in its history started and became a general manager. The student's expectations from our general director, who knows the needs, the problems of the officer, and the solution of his problems, and is currently the youngest minister, are to raise the number of modern dorms to an adequate level, increase the monthly scholarships and loans, improve the status of the domestic staff, bring in the system of night officers to take over duty at the end of the shift, and I salute you all with love and respect to our High Council, our great nation, in the hope that the budget will be good and good luck.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0213par0093	Thank you, Your Grace. Now it's time for our associate, Mr. Ismet Bigataman. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time was 15 minutes, we add one minute, 16 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0214par0097	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a commitment to share my views on the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism in 2012 on behalf of the National Movement Party. I hereby salute your delegation with the utmost respect. Respected lawmakers have become a country that consumes without producing Turkey and spends without winning. The economy is covered with unemployment and poverty spirals, which result from inefficiency, production and inefficiency. According to the latest data, more than 30 million citizens live on credit cards. The number of people who owe consumer loans to banks has reached 13.5 million, a total of 43.5 million of our citizens, unfortunately, have fallen into the banks' trap. While companies that lead the economy reduce their employment and increase their profits, the citizen lives in the grip of unemployment and debt. Anatolian tigers are throwing towels in front of Istanbul companies, and 412,000 SMEs' share in the economy is dwindling more and more. With the five countries we trade the most, our foreign trade deficits are increasing, unfortunately, our debates are increasing. Agriculture is getting worse every day. Based on estimates of personnel costs, it is evident that workers will be upset this year, and the tradition of being given a 3% raise will continue to be dependent on three cents. Retireds will continue to suffer from inflation, including food, rent, transportation, water, electricity, and gas. The AKP, which has been in charge of ruling Turkey alone for nine years, has unfortunately made it the instrument of conflict, polarization, crisis, and conquest, instead of spending its authority on peace, brotherhood, economic and social welfare. Honourable MPs, our national cultural heritage is what we carry from past to present with the bridges of our hearts, our values, our gains and experiences, our beliefs, our traditions and customs, our architect and history. The budget for developing, promoting, and presenting all our wealth to the world, as tourists say, is only $2 billion Turkish dollars, including everything. The two billion Turkish liras divided from a $3351 billion budget to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism show how much the government cares about our culture and tourism. I'm sorry to say it's a sad situation. Unfortunately, this exclusion, disregard and neglect of our cultural heritage has turned into fate during the Justice and Development Party's ruling period. In this period of globalization, the cultures of the nations have become even more important. Turkey's culture, which meets in different civilizations during the historic process, has come to date as one of the richest cultures in human history. We too should appreciate our unique culture and be involved in the work that will bring it to generations to come. During the Justice and Development Party's ruling period, Turkish culture, Turkey's history, is a difficult attempt to ignore it. Turkish culture should be brought forward in its history, but Byzantine and Roman monuments have been pulverized, and its Ottoman and Seljucian works are not valued and cared for. Respected lawmakers, when it comes to culture, we must first come to think of national culture. The fundamental phenomenon that creates a nation is the national culture that sustains its existence, but when we look at the works of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, we see everything, but we don't see regular studies that will help sustain the idea of national culture. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism needs to be provided by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism with the quality and national cultural values, especially to prevent new generations from getting cultural shocks and identity crisis. The national cultural institute should be established to promote, develop, promote, and promote Turkish culture and art. The Turkish language must be valued and freed from the yoke of foreign languages. The Turkish word for "ataturk" is Turkish. One of the most obvious qualities of people is language. People who call themselves Turkish people must speak Turkish first and certainly before all else. As they say, it is vital that our relatives do not forget their language, and that they increase their work on teaching the Turkish language to the new generation. Another issue is that our rich inheritance, Anatolia, does not destroy the existing cultural wealth, does not be watered down. Hasankeyf and Allianoi are among the rare values of our country. No work should be done, no matter what the purpose, that these values should be submerged. It is the Ministry of Culture and Tourism's primary duty to preserve and maintain rich Anatolian culture that has never been achieved. Art and artist must be valued, art must be made for art. There should be no barriers to putting pressure on the artist, contributing to the formation of trade unions where artists can act in unity. History must be studied by scientists in light of scientific research, preventing distortions and slanders of Turkish history. The work done in this effort is vital. The Turkish world must be opened to all our people on the condition that cultural monuments in all libraries, museums and archives are identified and transferred to digital media. In addition, when we describe our history, our culture, technology must be used in the best possible way. In cartoons, video games, in our children's lives, efforts to describe our history and culture must be weighted. The government must value theatres, writing, fine art. Investments in art and artists must be increased. Humiliating archaeological artifacts by calling sculptures "freaky" is an expression of an alarming situation. Those who lead politics need to set an example for society. Honourable lawmakers, opera and ballet were brought to our country in the early days of the republic as an attempt to modernise and as an active art of that period. Today, both theatre and opera and ballet have lost a certain amount of importance around the world, with the change of the age and the diversity of mass communication tools, but it is still an important tool for formatting and an important cultural activity in the social structure. So we have to internalize theatre, opera and ballet, combine it with our own culture. There's no way we can move forward with the opera that we can't grow with our own culture, and there's no way we're getting anywhere. The area has been diversified and improved, since tourism is an economically beneficial sector for countries. Our country has great potential for tourism with its historical, cultural and natural values. In recent years, small investments have made progress, and there has been a significant increase in the number of tourists coming to our country. But the point that comes with the work is beyond compare to the values of our country. Unfortunately, this sector, which concerns the economics of Turkey's nearly 40/50 sector and provides employment for 3.5 million of our citizens, does not get the share of the world's tourism cake. Investments and incentives must be made and provided to the tourism sector, which can only get five percent of the overall budget. Unfortunately, the Justice and Development Party government, which failed to produce brands in any sector during its nine years of power, did not produce the branding of our specific regions in the world's tourism market, which would diversify our country's tourism. The ruling Justice and Development Party, which does not think to open traditional markets, has no basis for opening new markets, does not have the values of our country, is now about to lose the most unique value of our culture to Greece, and the wish of Anatolia to Armenia. In 2004, Mr. Prime Minister set our destination in tourism by 2010, saying it was an investment of $25 billion in tourism and a profit of $30 billion per year. By 2010, however, what the Prime Minister said was neither the investment of tourism nor the intended revenue of tourism has been achieved. Even in 2012, investments targeted with the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, which did not find 1 billion euros, are not possible. Another issue in the tourism industry is that we still don't have a tourism policy. Despite the increasing number of tourists who have come to our country over the years because of our lack of policy, the revenue of tourism per capita is constantly falling. The average cost of tourists who arrived in Turkey in 2002 was $640, while today it is $550. Unfortunately, the person we bring in from tourism is constantly getting less and less. Rather than increasing the number of tourists, we need to aim to increase tourism revenue per person and work accordingly. A key factor in our failure to reach the level we want is the lack of publicity. For nine years, our country has not been properly, effectively and widely introduced. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism... has been in the media every year where a promotional film will be made to increase the contribution to tourism... but for nine years, there has been no acceptable advertising film to promote Turkey. Even this proves how desperate the tourism industry is. Honourable lawmakers will become the Davos of the Justice and Development Party, who ignores environmental sensitivity in all our coastal regions, changing the zoning plan, building anything but construction. For three years, Bursa Uludağ, as he called it, dropped a nail in building new hotels, let alone a nail in the building of existing hotels. The Justice and Development Party, which still lacks a promotional strategy during its nine-year rule, has also become highly skilled at missing values that have the potential for tourism. He is responsible for the loss of the opportunity to promote a great tourist potential by not being able to maintain the Formula 1 races that have brought thousands of tourists into our country, watched from television by 2 billion people. The solution to all these problems lies in the completion of the tourism framework draft law as soon as possible and the establishment of the bill in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Our country's tourism route should be assessed for its natural historical and cultural riches, to create a value of environmentally sensitive, respectable, authentic and sustainable understanding. A structure that aims at high income groups in the tourism sector, protects and sustains natural capital, should be created in line with the comparative competitive advantage of Turkish tourism, golf, thermal, congress, croissant, health tourism and economism. Honourable MPs, with these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all with the deepest respect and respect that our budget for our country and our nation, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, 2012.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0215par0128	Thank you, Mr. Bigataman.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0216par0129	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement for the record as to the registration of the Gaziantep baklava.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0215par0130	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0216par0131	Sir, two years ago, after these discussions began, it was taken from our brand patent institute in Turkey. Later, last year, the European Union Commission submitted the application as its first geographical registration sign from Turkey, which has been accepted, and talks on this application continue in Brussels fifteen days ago, and hopefully we will conclude this application from Turkey by receiving a European declaration of baklava. I'm offering this as information.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0215par0132	Thank you, sir. Members of parliament, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Sakarya MP Engin Ozkoc. Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0217par0137	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Tofik Fikret: I don't expect any good from anyone, I don't beg for wings, In my own space, in my own sky, I'm a traveler. A bow head is heavier than a yoke on my neck, His mind is free, his wisdom free, his conscience free. He says. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, speaking on Teacher's Day in 25/08/1924, says you have free ideas, free knowledge, free young people waiting for you. Mr. Secretary, that's what the republic's young people expect of you. The Republic is an ideal regime where such youth grows, loves its country, is not concerned about the future, is healthy, dynamic, its idea is free, its conscience is free, its wisdom is free, its wisdom is grown, and the future of the country will be delivered to these generations. The Ministry of Youth and Sports, which we talk about for youth, is part of the task of identifying the individual and social development of youth, challenging the opportunities for disabled individuals to exercise, providing active participation in every aspect of social life. Now I ask you, which youth do you intend to benefit from? What youth? The youth you risked going to the army and martyring because he couldn't pay for it? What youth? The youth you couldn't stand by after being put in a bag? What youth? The youth who was sprayed with gas, beat with a baton, dragged down on the floor because they wanted their rights? What youth? You're talking about hundreds of young people filling out prisons for seeking their rights? What youth? Are you talking about our young people who can't even find a place to sleep in the east, southeast, to collect nuts, to support their family? What youth? After having to work in the mines and being trapped under the stove, are you referring to the youth the Prime Minister calls his destiny? What youth? Are you referring to the children of the minority, the feed, the support, the children of the minority of the growing Turkey, who were condemned to work at the age of children, who were crippled, who died, or the children of the few you support and support? Since my country's children have to work, they can't read sports, let alone exercise. Children who read in pain and pain can't find work. They feel lucky if they can get a job, they can't pay 30 billion, they can go to the army, they can take care of everything, they can go to a game once a month on a rug field. To show you that these are not talks, let me give you an example or two: We have over 500 imprisoned young people in prisons right now. Turkey is one of the leading European countries in terms of the number of prisoners and prisoners. According to the term's Labour Minister, 6,964 children, young workers were identified at 56,095 workplaces in 2009. My dear friends, we know your sports policy, we know those who call it self-federation, and by order of the Prime Minister, are the heads of the federation. We know how to put pressure on the government in the Federation elections. We know the areas of Sakaryaspor, where you can't transfer because of your debts, like other sports clubs, where you're going to build a field, a stadium in the city squares where you're going to go after Tokyo. We also know that you take sports out of a public service and see it as a winning field, depending on the Rant it brings in. Mr. Hasip Kaplan, Mr. Oktay Vural, Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, at least listen to the voice of the opposition once in a while to the people; for this country, for the future of our country, we say the right things; lift your heads, open your hearts. But what's going on, what's the answer? You will not be able to take them away because their eyes are blind and their hearts are sealed and they are dumb. Because they say, I don't believe, they say, I don't believe, I don't believe, they say, I don't believe, they say, I don't believe, they say young people, they say, they say, they say "spore," I don't believe.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0218par0156	50%... you're insulting people.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0219par0157	You're insulting people.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0217par0158	Why? I'm telling you why, because you attack these values every chance you get.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0218par0159	50%.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0217par0160	I see the conviction of the young men of this country in your faces, who say 50 percent and smile broadly. So don't try to light your face with a smile.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0220par0162	People say 50 percent.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0217par0163	I hope that when you open your eyes, when you remove the seal from your hearts, and no, this country, this youth, this nation, will not become a servant of imperialism. On the day you say, "Come, let us confirm your budget." I hope my country wasn't late that day. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0221par0166	Mr. Ozkoch, thank you. Now for the second spokesman of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Hülya Güven. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Trust.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0222par0170	Mr. President, lawmakers, I have made a commitment to pass on the budgets of the Office of Higher Education Loans and Homes, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. I salute you all. First of all, I wish our Prime Minister good health and immediate recovery. You remember, Mr. Prime Minister, in 2010, the university students were talking about how the scholarship and credit fees went from $40 to $200. Right, student scholarships and loans were set at $240 in 2011, but I got a scholarship during my college life. At that time, we had friends who contributed and contributed to their homes, as well as all our needs, including food and books. In those days, students receive about 50 per cent of the minimum wage, while today they can only receive 35 per cent. I'm not comparing him. Today is the minimum wage level, as the Republican People's Party has indicated in its party programme. The 60 per cent new scholarship, proposed as a strategic target for 2010 by the Credit and Homes Association, remained in the 30 per cent. The first university was founded in 1933, and 76 universities were opened from this date to 2003, and the number of universities founded from 2003 to 2011 was 102. Except for the foundation colleges. We have about 3.5 million students, including open education. Our number of students has increased, but our infrastructure is inadequate, our faculty is lacking. I guess we'll be getting imported professors soon, like with the doctors, like with the lawyers. When we look at the housing situation, we see that loans and dorms have a bed capacity of 189,747 in 2004, which is 246,520 in 2010. There's a 76% increase. However, the new 263,541 students who applied in 2010 only received 106 thousand. As a strategic target for 2010, YURTKUR has again targeted 60 per cent of its housing model and has only achieved its rate at 30 per cent. When we look at it today, we see that TOKI builds many ministry buildings. Of course they're necessary, but are the ministry buildings or student dorms the priority? Today, students have come to each of us -- you must have -- to try to pull strings, to stay in the dorm. If these students are seeking hope from lawmakers to provide them with a home, then our government is not doing its duty, is it not?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0223par0180	No, it's not like that.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0222par0181	There have been complaints from students in the past days. Students who succeeded in the exam following the 2011 OPS results said they were being tried by people they didn't know by their homes and cell phones to persuade them to prefer a number of private student dorms for housing. While our legal regulations for the protection of personal data are not available to anyone, the student's personal information is seen to be passed on to people who are not in charge. Mr. Health Minister told the physicians that the patients were referred to the practice for full-time reasons. What do we say about our young people being directed to private dorms? In fact, because our young people, our students, used their democratic rights to protest the Hopa events, they're still accused of wearing it because they expressed their most natural rights of free education or had their hair cut off, they're being investigated, even arrested for months. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as we have seen, our government has failed to achieve its goals as much as it does in justice and education, as well as in dorms and scholarships. Our young are not enemies of primary school, high school, college, or even employees or unemployed, but our future. We must teach them love, not hate. We're getting some news that a five-star dorm is going to be formed, where the TOKI is dealing with YURKUR. When it's over, I wonder how many students have started, how many students have lived. He said that some 600,000 students are waiting at home in Turkey and that 310,000 students can be sheltered with ongoing homes. Mr. Secretary, couldn't it have been completed in nine years? We're still talking about 50% capacity. I'd like to give you an example, we have many provinces, but Niğde is very striking: here at Nüğde University, the number of students is 15,000, the capacity of the dorms is 3.850. Since they couldn't find a dorm today, they must have frozen 1,200 student records and returned home. Our hope is to provide our young ones with free education and health rights mentioned in the Constitution, creating an environment where they can teach them freely. I'd like to ask Mr. Minister of Culture a question: Is it true that the 23rd term statement and the bill sent to Parliament in October is a library that has a great role in education -- that will be removed from the Compiling Law of the National Library? That's what I want to know. He says thank you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0224par0188	Thank you, Mr. Trust. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party, the third speaker is Mr. Doğan Shafah, Nüğde MP. Mr. Dawn, please.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0225par0192	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism in 2012. I salute the High Council. Turkey is presenting a magnificent presentation to the globe with its mountains, seas, natural lakes and cultural assets. Members of parliament, according to TÜİK Strongman's data, in 2010 the tourism sector provides more than $15 billion in revenues regardless of the revenues brought by our citizens from abroad to Turkey. Adding the income of our citizens from abroad, that amount is around $20 billion. Despite these revenues, the government's Ministry of Culture and Tourism budget is only $138,400,000. I'm afraid the importance of the tourism industry has not been exactly given. To promote our country effectively and accurately throughout the world, the Finance Ministry must allocate a budget of at least 2 per cent of the revenue of the tourism sector per year to external promotion. In 2002, the proportion of tourism revenues in illegal domestic revenues was 6.6 per cent, while in 2010 the rate was reduced to 2.6 per cent. According to TÜİK (TÜİK) data, the average cost of a tourist who arrived in Turkey in 2002 was $640, while in 2010 it dropped to $550. At the same time, the number of tourists came to our country from 13 million to 28 million. The currency he left is about 15 billion dollars. So as the number of tourists rose, the exchange rate he left for our country was getting smaller and smaller. Tourists from Georgia, Azerbaijan, Romania, Bulgaria and some African countries are known to work as illegal workers in our country. For example, in 2010, the number of tourists from Georgia increased 1 million 112. We know that some of the Georgian tourists who arrived were gathered by the gendarmes and deported while working in the fields in Niğde. There's no way to figure out the currency that 3 and 5 or 4 million illegal tourists take from our country off the record. It's also a matter of how many foreign currency these illegal workers take to their country off the books. The most optimistic estimate is about $3.5 or $4 billion. Mr. Hursit is also an important subject in a column written by the Sun, where a section of tourists form another sector in our country and return close to $600m to their country off the record. Dear lawmakers, there are also problems in the housing industry. Tourists from foreign tour operators and hotels, tourism agencies, bring to our country, are taking advantage of its system, including everything. This system is of no use to the tradesmen and the public. Valuable lawmakers exit Mount Kilimanjaro in Africa with 30,000 tourists a year, while 2,000 tourists a year leave for Mt.A., the highest summit in Europe (5,165 m) in Turkey, which is remembered by the legend of the ship Nouh. A visa has been granted to Mount Pain. The request for a visa for Mount Ağrı is the biggest disgrace in the tourism sector, for which several ministries have come together to put together false protocols and arbitrary rules. Even during September 12th, a visa was not granted to mount Pain. In July 2011, another arbitrary protocol was added, and the Ministry of Environment and Forestry was obliged to buy a field guide for 150 dollars a day in the mountains entering the national parks area. Field manuals are people who don't speak foreign languages, who are gathered from the region. Trekking and climbing tours in the mountains are a risky activity. Minister, I'm asking you now: how will Turkish Mountaineers in the mountains of Turkey provide guidance from the Turkish Dynasty Federation and from the villages of the Forestry Ministry? We have proposals for a solution: 1) The Ministry of TÜRSAB and Tourism must come together to provide mountain guidance by training students who know foreign languages, who want to do this work in the field. 2) As in Switzerland, the mountain guidance section must be opened to universities, the application must be solved radically by being conducted in some universities in Niğde, Bursa, Van, Ankara. If the bureaucratic obstacles to nature tourism are overcome, at least 100,000 qualified tourists will come to the mountains of Turkey, Likya roads, Cappadocia valleys. Dear lawmakers, there have been no significant investments in our country that would interest foreign tourists in winter tourism, except Erzurum and Ercias. This important branch of tourism has been neglected. Bolkars are our most important mountain to invest in, where the most suitable winter Olympics, tour skis and variety can be made. Let us not forget that Austria earns half of Turkey's annual tourism revenues only from winter tourism. The mountains of Turkey are almost the size of Austria's facial measurements. Mr. Minister of Tourism, while we're here, I'd like to talk to them about the problems of tourist guides. There is still no law of guidance available. The bill, which is now referred to our commission, has not been passed by the union of guides, but by the law of guiding troops. Culture tour guides also have problems growing. Many universities have opened an English tourist guidance section, but no guidance chapters have been opened from French, German, Italian and other languages. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism must resolve this problem by connecting with the NGO. The most challenging issue for local tourism agencies is insurance, because there is no insurance company in Turkey that can cover tourists and cover travel. Part-insurance companies also keep the scope of the tour very narrow. This requires regulation in travel insurance legislation. Our other suggestions are: The Dalyan River in Mugla. The boat tours are rapidly polluting. A total of four hundred and ninety boats tour the river for one day. The use of electric and solar-powered boats should be enforced instead of diesel-powered boats in this river. The boat owners must be encouraged immediately, preventing the contamination of the River. The dam that contains Hasankeyf must be stopped and destroyed immediately. In fact, the construction of the dam must be bombed immediately. Diplomatic contact must be established to eliminate tour routes in our eastern provinces, such as Siirt, Bitlis, Van, which are considered a risky area by the British and German Foreign Ministry. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0226par0213	Thank you, Mr. Dawn. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the fourth speaker is Mr. Tolga Çangar. Here you go, Mr. Chandar.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0227par0217	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, right at the beginning of my speech, I'm going to start by talking about a problem that has been very busy for us this year. It's a loan and housing agency. It is said that the Office of the Ministry of Loans and Homes has a General Manager's quota. This quota is distributed equally among the MPs. Now this year we've heard it. We've got our kids here, just like all of you, college-winning kids. They're in the sequence, they're in the research, they've scored, they've been given a certain ranking according to those scores. Some thought they didn't deserve that order, so they thought they should be in better places. Some of them really needed it so much that they were able to drop out of school. Because I had the same problem when I first came to college in my early teens. We confiscated it because I heard those kids so well, we made a list ourselves, we gave it to them. I cracked until I put one kid on that list in the dorm. But then we received various hearings that most of the lists given by lawmakers from the ruling party were placed in the Credit and Housing Institution. I hope that's not true, I hope that's not true. [[CHP rows (True) sounds]] My dear friends, this office of loans and dorms needs to be removed from the general manager's seat, and it definitely needs to be removed. Look, as lawmakers, we're all under suspicion no matter what political opinion we have. We can't do it, and when we can't do it in front of people... look, my neighbor, my AKP MP friend, went through the same thing, the same problem. So come on, I know we've agreed on some things, so let's agree on that, and let's get it up. The director of loans and dorms shouldn't have a quota. Another thing I'm proud of during these budget talks is that I'm once again proud to be in this House. My dear friends, after the war against imperialism, this is a coven built after the war against imperialism. I'm proud of it, and I'm proud of it, especially to the point that some of my friends are going to do this anti-empericalism thing... and I'm going to go and talk about it, and I'm going to hug it on the stage, and I'm going to give it a kiss. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, as much as I can do in this short time, I'm going to stress anti-empericalism, imperialism, but what I'm going to do is I'm going to do the imperialism culture imperialism. So when imperialism is going to exploit a country, it doesn't just go with its cannon, it doesn't go with economic imperialism. Look, the most dangerous thing is, for us, I'm sure I have friends in the ruling party group who will join me. There are so many things on their streets that we can't resist the bombing of corruption and foreign culture. This culture of imperialism is a tool that makes economic imperialism difficult to perceive, and I think it's done intentionally and willingly. For this, an important part of the fight against imperialism will be to fight against cultural imperialism. If not tomorrow, when our children enter the house in the middle of the night, let's say we tore it up -- after our generation, when our children's children come home to their father, hey old man, how are you? If they come in, it's because we didn't fight this war. The most important challenge to imperialism is cultural products that will be created by action from our own values. As an artist, I've been trying to deliver these cultural products for years. I was banned from public television for giving it to you. Not just me, but my theater friends, my filmmaker friends, cartoonists, writers, painters, for years, unfortunately, they paid the price for this struggle by being tortured, arrested, canceled concerts, canceled theatres. Is that what this is? I mean, that's not the price of being an anti-emperical artist who stands up to cultural imperialism in this country, my dear friends. I'll get right on to something else. As it is known, there has been a change in the Law on the Protection of Culture and Nature of 2863, under the Law of 648. With this change, natural sitters were transferred from the Protection Board to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. Now, I'm extremely concerned about that. It's been years... first I wonder what will happen to my shores... as a congressman of the 1,126km coast. You know, we fought as a party, we fought as a party, not just as a party, but as a natural environment, and I don't want these beautiful co-operating sheep that we've been protecting for years, taking care of, working with imperialism, collaborating with sovereign forces. Because of this law, I'm worried about the looting of these coves.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0228par0226	Nothing will happen.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0227par0227	Hopefully not, sir, hopefully not. I mean, you're here too, God bless us all. I mean, I hope it doesn't happen, but I'm worried. Look, in our villages, people live in situ, our villagers can't nail their house. At the same time, they won't let him marry his child, build a house in the garden of his house, because they don't allow him to do it either because, somehow, with the help of some kind of political man or with his help, some people, with the help of some kind of power, put a lot of stars on the land that he bought for his own money. The villagers they bought for money, and the five-star hotels they built, they employed their men as night watchmans and their women as cleaning workers. Please have a search of the area, and look into the suicide rates among these peasant women in that area; it's tragic. There used to be tobacco in our villages -- now that you've destroyed it -- people used to drink Folidol, tobacco medicine. The way the village girls died, the way they killed themselves, they used to drink Folidol, they'd throw it in blind wells, and we'd burn two songs on top of it, at least something in folk literature... he threw it off the balcony of the five-star hotel. (CHP clapping in rows) Oh, my God! Look, I know that our Minister, Pedasa, visited Ancient City. I don't believe our Minister is malicious, but we've known him for a long time, but there's something wrong with the system. In the Ancient City of Pedasa, our teacher Adnan, our teacher Adnan Diler, did something extraordinary. Look, Efes is an amazing place that will have as much impact as the Ancient Theatre, and in Bodrum, or Bodrum, or Bodrum. You know the King's Cemetery that was robbed in Milas, it's a shame, isn't it? After that, our Minister comes, and the local manager at our place is scolding friends. Yeah, I don't think you're gonna... Previously, we had AKP ministers who came before you, who slept, you know, where they went, and when they woke up after they slept, they were already Greek. Let's give them to the West, and let's take back the works of Islam. He spoke extremely ignorant, extremely racist words of his kind. Well, if we'd protected them instead of doing it, we could've protected those things like we're doing now... Lagina, for example, has the Ancient City of Lagina.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0229par0233	Mr. Chandar, thank you, sir, your time is up.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0227par0234	It's over. I pay my respects, good evening.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0229par0237	The last speaker on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group is Mr. Sedef Küçük, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Little.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0230par0240	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party over the budgets of the State Opera and Ballet General Directorate and the General Directorate of State Theatres 2012. I salute your high council. Dear MPs, theatre, opera and ballet are the modernisation projects of our republic, the reflections of a culture that aims at the level of modern civilization. To support these arts for him is to uphold the values of the republic. In the last ten years, our theatres have reached 58, and the total number of seats has been increased by more than 3 floors. There are theatres everywhere, including the eastern part of the country. Our opera and ballet artists represent various parts of Asia Minor. These are irrefutable developments. For this reason, he thanks everyone who has worked, especially Mr. Secretary, but I also want to express the need for cultural policies to be considered as a whole, because cultural policies are not only about theatre, ballet, opera, arts and literature, but also about life forms, basic human rights and freedoms. If archaeological sites are treated as pottery in a country, historical heritage is left to corrupt urbanization or hydroelectric plants, at the mercy of cement factories, then cultural policy in that country is a cultural policy that must be discussed thoroughly. These are more important issues than how much of the budget is earmarked for the State Theatre or the State Opera and Ballet, because they represent a point of view. Yes, the number of theatres has increased, the number of representations has increased, and these are really important developments, but if artists are not free, art is not allowed to live, books are collected before they're published, if our journalists, our intellectuals are imprisoned because of their thoughts, it's not possible to mention that there is a right cultural policy there. Dear lawmakers are treated as terrorists because of this book or book found in the house of young children in Turkey in 2011. The students are serving 19 months in prison for opening a sign. We thought it was the 12th of March, the 12th of September, that Turkey had left these dark times in the past, but it seems that this is the end of our advanced democracy. I ask you, is this the kind of democratic culture we're going to inherit for the next generation? We're going to inherit an understanding that sees the book as a criminal element? I'd expect the Minister to say two words to the mindset that sees the book as a criminal element, and I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary to come out, which age are we living in? Is the book a crime? Let him say, "This is not a democracy culture." Let's do what we can before we create this culture of democracy. But Mr. Secretary has stopped talking, and the people who won the democratic championship on other matters have stopped talking. This silence shows how mature our democratic culture is. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we all agree that our country should have a cultural policy that embraces all its historical and geographical savings. All the civilizations created by these lands, from the Hitit to the Ottomans, from Yunus Emrelt to Ahmet Arif. All the poets, all the artists who lived on these lands from Sinan the Architect to Mevlana, all the thinkers are our savings, but Mehmet Aksoy, whose sculpture is called ▪cübübübübübül Say, is the foundation of our country, and this is the enlightenment of our country. It's the values that bridge our future with their art. I would like to remind you that those who ignore Nazim Hikmet, those who forbid it, have vanished into history, but have stood firm by his works. How sad it is to face a Prime Minister and a Minister of Culture who can't react when it is a necessity to protect art and artist. That's why artists are hurt, that's why our people are hurt. A culture built on such resentment is also a culture that is doomed to be incomplete. I'd like to ask the Minister if you didn't feel any pain when that statue was being cut to pieces. Have you ever thought about where we're going? It hurt for me. For me, it was not only for the sacrifice of my tongue, but also for this deep silence. I was thinking, "Where are we going?" This question has crossed the minds of all citizens in this country who believe in modern civilization. Dear lawmakers, as Republican People's Party, we stand behind everything that's done right, but we stand against everything that's done wrong that's damaged this country. If power increases the number of theatres, if it spreads art to our people, spreads cultural activities, and achieves that with very low budgets, we support it, because we know that these are our country's gains, but we stand in the face of every attempt to digest art and artist, to undermine democratic culture, because for us art and artist are the inextricable ones that connect us with the next generation, because for us democracy culture is the country's non-existent. Therefore, I feel the need once again to underline that as long as we can tolerate different thoughts, different approaches, different understandings, we can inherit a permanent culture for future generations. I wish us all the best in the 2012 budget, and once again, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit03spe0231par0251	Thank you, Mr. Little. Congressmans, it's 20 o'clock for the merger. I'm taking a break until 00.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0231par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume our ninth round of talks with the Central Management Budget Law for 2012 and the Central Management Act for 2010. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Now it's time for Mr. Özdal Threeer, MP of the Peace and Democracy Party Van. Mr. Threeer, please. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0232par0009	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the budget of the Council of Youth Sports and Credit Homes. Sports and dorms are the first thing that comes to mind. In our country, with a very large population of young people, when we consider the problems in general that young people have experienced as a whole, everyone has to take on equal responsibility as a parent and as a citizen and as a deputy. Although our country has one of the largest young populations among the world's countries, it is one of the most backward countries at the point of its policies for youth and youth. It is evident how far behind our country is, given the sports activities, social environments for young people, or statistics for them. Three and a half million college students, but in exchange for that, it's the inadequacy of the dorms. Of course, the number of private dorms has increased, as well as the mortgage housing work. And when we look at sports policies, sports-related activities, from childhood, from early childhood, from youth to youth, we will see how carelessly we have been about the environment of sporting activities that we can view as the environment where both education and social life can best be maintained, kept away from bad habits, and gain social identity, consciously, politically, or apolitically. Once the sports budget is assessed, it is necessary to say that, again, as in the entire budget, regional distinctions are very, very obvious. Why is computing intergalactic sporting investments not being considered, but making amends for investments that are not from the past to the present? According to the provinces, when we evaluate swimming pools or ski facilities or track tracks or statistics of infrastructure opportunities for any sporting activity, of course, we see that, as in the statistics of the entire country, all cities in the Kurdistan region are in the background. Now, everyone knows that this is the result of a hundred years of politics, that these statistics are a hundred years of politics. What should be done about the solution? What policy should be followed in order to develop a common opinion, so that both the opportunity equal in education and the country's entire young population, the social resources of its environment, and the cultural positions of its environment, should be made sporty investments? Ski resorts in our region, where winter is very intense and snowfalls are very large, are in real distress. Of course, sports and young people or young people with higher education have a problem with loans and dorms - problems that we can't finish if we discuss them for days or talk about them for days. Students are under pressure in university dorms, students are under strict military discipline. Students are having problems with their meals at the loan dorms, they're having problems with their wages, and they're also underprivileged by loan dorms. However, there is a 100 per cent increase in the number of universities in this country, but there is not even a half per cent increase in the number of dorms that the institution of loan dorms, where students study at universities live. What does that mean? You're going to open a school at a sign level, you're going to get people with base points into college environments, but they're not going to stay in the dorms, they're going to go to private dorms, they're going to be caught up in communities in private dorms, there's not going to be an opportunity for loan dorms, there's going to be a problem for young people studying in metropoliss to find rental homes. In these problems, we will ensure that college students receive scientific, free education, which does not coincide. Mr. Secretary, there have been thousands of aftershocks after the Van earthquake. It's the 52nd day of the earthquake, but the Van earthquake's wounds have not yet healed, and not one in a thousand have been able to embrace them. Those who see it as an exaggeration, and see it as a false statement, let them enter, and let them be our guests for three days. We won't talk at all, we'll go to the streets, the neighborhoods, the tents where people lived one by one in Van. Who got the containers, how many containers did they get? Why are the containers from the Federal Kurdistan area sitting empty somewhere far from the city? Who was given the tents, and why isn't there a list of names? Why did the highways burn down? What inventory was in that warehouse? Was there a sabotage situation in that warehouse, like losing inventory? What is the amount of help that comes in, who has been given, what help? These are matters the public needs to know about. But there's a governor, a governor who only cares about economic gains, political gains. He doesn't listen to Mukhtars, he doesn't listen to NGOs. Whoever makes a request tries to jam him up with law enforcement, hits him, uses algebra, but this governor, whatever it is, is still on duty. This governor didn't just hit the chiefs, he beat the shit out of us. As MP, we've been hit by security forces in Van, but thanks to the media, it's as if the law enforcement forces who hit us are right, so why are you hitting us there? You can't beat women, you can't beat women, you can't beat children. They make it look like we're wrong. There's so much to say. There's no sports facilities in any of the universities, even the university itself, that can't teach. When no school is in a position to teach, let's revitalize the economy of Aman, let's get the teachers here. Yes, we want education to start, we want trade to start, we want life to live, because that's where we live. We don't want life to stop there. Why aren't hospitals served, why hospitals can't serve, we're the first ones to question it. Today, even a person with a headache has to be transferred to Diyarbakir, Bitlis, different cities, even though it has nothing to do with the earthquake. Why? Health care can't be run there. Well, what about the social government? Has the doctor there managed to provide shelter? No. The nurse? No. Paramedics? No. Your teacher? No. Student? No. The student's guardian? No. But we're going to revitalize the trade, we're going to open up the school there to revive life. Even if the schools open, I'm a parent, I'm also not going to send my own child to any school under these conditions, and I'm telling the public clearly, no one should send your child to school. There are tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people who will do exactly as we say.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0233par0020	Did you send them under normal circumstances?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0232par0021	I send them under normal circumstances, but I don't want to send them to a school that doesn't have a native language education. It's a different thing to talk about. It's a different thing to talk about. Are we gonna ask you if we're gonna send our kid to school? With your grace, children will study at school? By your grace, people will be treated in hospitals? There is a governor who has spent trillions in the most glorious, scenic area of Edremit. He has an earthquake-resistant building. He does not meet with anyone but the representatives of the AKP. If he does not meet, don't expect the public to have no reaction after this. If the governor who sticks people who go to the airport for a tent is being held in office, that means: "Break this people up, drive these people through the country, God has struck, earthquaked, destroyed, destroyed their houses, and you have struck their heads and broken their heads. " If the government had an ounce of sincerity in this matter, that governor and Ergiş Sub-Committee would have been removed immediately. [[Where are you looking from the AK PARTY lines?]] Are we going to ask you where we're going to look? I look here, I look wherever I want. If you're so uncomfortable with my looks, there's an alley on the other side, you can rest.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0234par0025	He's gonna ask you?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0235par0026	Please... please...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0232par0027	He's the one selling, you sit where you sit.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0234par0028	We're gonna ask you?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0232par0029	Don't ask. I'm gonna ask you. Don't move your hands; you've already done that, you don't do anyone's...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0236par0030	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0237par0031	Please, friends...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0232par0032	Mr. President, I don't want to have to shut them up, please...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0238par0033	Come on!
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0237par0034	Please address the House.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0232par0035	Let's try it.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0239par0036	Finish your speech, Mr. Ozdal.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0237par0037	Okay, guys, please.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0232par0038	We've been persecuted, and I'm thirty-five years old, and I've always been brought up with this cruelty, and my children grow up with it, and if the generations after me grow up with it, there will be resistance. There will be resistance, no matter who commits this persecution. Just as Erdal Eren was raised and executed -- but he was upright, honorable on his way to the execution table -- even if we go to the execution table today, we'll be honorable, and we won't forget the Erdal Eren. (Applause from the ranks of the BDP) We will not forget the Sherzan Kurt. From where he sits, it's easy to tell the public, the representatives of the people, the gestures, the manners, but... [[Break the bar in AKP rows.]] Actually, you deserve a jug, but you don't have to.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0240par0042	You've got to be kidding me. It doesn't suit me.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0241par0043	Mr. Ozdal, it's okay.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0232par0044	But you see what's being done, right?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0242par0046	Thank you, Mr. Threeer. Second speaker for the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mardin MP Erol Dora. Here you go, Mr. Dora. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0243par0051	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, State Opera and Ballet General Directorate. I salute you all. Many voices and later opera and ballet, which began with the Renaissance in the world, continued its development as the feudal order was resolved and made it more functional in terms of the settlement of democracy and its development. Opera, ballet are important arts that highlight the scale of modernity in the world today. The envoys who were sent to European countries during the Ottoman Empire reported that when they returned to our country, they had prepared a padishaha and presented opera art. For a long time, the envoys of the operas that they were watching gave the palace an interest in operas. Turkey has continued its rapid development of modernisation with the republic, and parallel breakthroughs have been made in the music field to Ataturk revolutions. One of the lifebloods of an artless nation has been severed. Ataturk, who expressed his importance to art and artist by his word, described the most important of all his revolutions as the music revolution. In the newly established republic, he personally took an interest in the work of musical institutions, and in the composition of all arts, opera and ballet. For this reason, the opera was a pioneer in modernization efforts, which began with very loud music, and in 1934 the first Turkish opera was performed at the Ankara People's House. The State Opera and Ballet is the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, established by Law 1309, and is the directorate of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, which includes national opera and ballet communities. Its main goal is to promote and promote opera, ballet and musical arts to the public, performing concerts with opera, opera, opera, opera, opera, ballet, ballet representations, international and international tours, and to organise national and international festivals. The State Opera and Ballet have been operating for 60 years, both in Turkey and around the world, to demonstrate the creations of Turkish culture and artist. Mr. President, good lawmakers, culture means being a cultured society so that a country can have the dignity of modern international change. Art and culture are of great importance to social development. In this sense, social foundations need to be influenced by a democratic opening and socialized by ideologically and politically feeding progressive values and training and converting them. Art is not an isolated and abstract phenomenon, but unfortunately it seems to be the special interest and effort of a small part of our country. This image is due to the fact that art finds itself among the luxury needs of the people of our country, who can't afford their basic physiological needs. Art, on the other hand, has the functions and activities that allow its cultural past, present, and future, to be united and integrating bonds that begin with the existence of man. It's a social need as well as an individual in that sense. Through art, you reach out to your culture, embrace it, and hide it. To be interested in art is also the most effective way to enrich the environment, to build confidence, to have aesthetic appreciation, to have empathy, to find spiritual serenity, to grow up healthy, to be sensitive in this sense, to develop the ability to act humanly and strive for human life. Culture and art stand in a very important place with its envy to have a quality that brings communities closer together. The best way to get to know a society is to see where that society is in its cultural and artistic activities. Similarly, a country that cannot see the difference between citizens living in its own country has accepted artistic poverty. Isn't that exactly the situation our country is in? The famous Kurdish epic published by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism made us all happy and happy. Printing books in the language of his country's citizens should be the head of the ministry's work. The ministry must act not only for Turkish culture, but for the protection and development of all cultures that live in this country and represent the wealth of our country. I'd just like to sing in Kurdish. I'm afraid that what happened to Tarkan (Turkan) who disagreed with Hasankeyf's culture massacre or tried to lynch Ahmet Kaya (Admir) because he said, "It shows the value given to art and artists in Turkey." There's no way to forget all this. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, stage art is one of the best tools that can express cultural tissue. In this regard, the works of all countries that they created from their own values, including universal language and messages, are the building blocks that determine their location in the history of civilization. Both the State Theatres and the State Opera and Ballet are often lacking in stage performances. This lack has a negative effect on the player's playoffs, preventing the public from meeting such arts. Government Theatres have heavy workloads, and employees complain that they can't perform enough. The State Theatres and the State Opera and Ballet members are unable to benefit from the copyrights related to neighbouring rights by the Law on Ideas and Arts No. 5846 because they are not defined as professions. The State Theatres and State Opera and Ballet adopt the Act 657, although its own institutional laws are autonomous. The legal arrangements for the rights of the institutional employees, both under contract and under the status of officers, must be made. In this year's budget, we see that the Ministry of Culture and Tourism budget is relatively low, which is becoming a tradition. In advanced countries, investment in art is one percent of the overall budgets of these countries. With us, that's a lot less. We think there should be more budgets for a ministry that is expected to study both culture and tourism. The government must invest in art, education, culture, and strive to create a democratic and tolerant country, focusing on the development of human quality. I wish that all cultures in our country could express themselves freely, that the 2012 budget would be a blessing, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0244par0070	Thank you, Mr. Dora. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, the third speaker is Hakkari MP Assat Canan. Here you go, Mr. Canan.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0245par0074	Mr. President, we had one minute left.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0244par0075	We'll add more, sir. Your time is 16 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0246par0077	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to share my views and assessments with you on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism in 2012. I hereby salute the High Council. Congressmans, the ministry that we're discussing the budget is actually a ministry that our country should serve in a very large area, such as culture and tourism, but the transfer of a fraction from the general budget to this ministry, which clearly shows that the Ministry will not respond to expectations with this budget. This is a clear indication of the government's importance to culture, art and tourism. This is, in fact, the government's approach, not only in the current government, but also in the budgets of all governments of the past. I regret to inform you that this approach to the rich cultures of Anatolia, the cradle of civilization, is still a problem. Dear lawmakers, culture is a whole of every material and spiritual property a society has produced in its historical process and passed down from generation to generation. However, each society sets out through its own cultural reality as it performs its own culture and art. In our country, I regret to inform you that the situation is not pleasant in that sense. Unfortunately, the culture policy of the state, based on one race, one language, one religion, one sect, denied the country's different cultures was wrong. With this channel, society has always been told something wrong, something other than the truth. Victor Hugo has a very good saying: "Truths cannot be chained. " Even if he is chained up and thrown into the sea, the chains will rust, and the truth will come out to the earth and to the surface one day. For him, pluralistic culture is a social phenomenon of our country, a fact. Therefore, the time has passed for a culture condemned to one language, one color. Therefore, rapid implementation of pluralistic culture with legal changes is important for strengthening the integrity of the country. Dear lawmakers, culture cannot be expected to develop in an environment where language is banned because language is one of the main carriers of culture. Language prepares and nurtures the environment in which it needs culture. In 1949, the State Theatres, which were founded with a special law to spread culture and art to the largest communities, have also made an effort to take part in the world in its originality, but unfortunately, it does not reflect our cultural diversity as a sign of an attitude that is far from the reality of our country. In order for different cultures to develop and live, the state must focus on cinema and theatre, allowing different cultures to develop in these branches of fine arts. The definitions, such as the Turkish theatre or the state theatre, in the cultural diversity of Turkey, clearly do not refer to a multicultural, pluralistic society reality. Because the exclusive qualities of the Turkish accent, with its social and legal determination, also show itself in this area. In that sense, theater scenes, unfortunately, do not open a curtain for our country's differences. This idea of acting, which ignores all languages, accents, and dialects, especially in Kurdish, has now become outdated. It is the government's duty to extend the theatre, ballet, music, and cinema -- a real cultural carrier -- to make sure that everyone benefits. In his message published by World Theatre Day, Mr. Prime Minister said that it is possible to understand a society's vision of civilization, cultural identity, through the art that reflects its freedom and differences. I would like to remind Mr. Prime Minister, who has made a universal accurate assessment of the theater, that despite the opening process in 2008, there is no practical compensation. Art branches are real culture carriers. It's the government's job to spread the theatre, ballet, music, folklore to their home level, to make sure that everyone benefits from it. Dear lawmakers, more than 12,000 villages have been renamed as part of the policy of assimilation since 1940. The names of geographical places, such as cities, mountains, and rivers, have also been changed by being translated into Turkish. The vast majority of these changes were made in areas where other races, particularly Kurds, lived. In the same way, historical artifacts left behind from the exiled peoples have unfortunately been systematically targeted by destruction. On the other hand, the public's identities, historical development processes and cultural, art values have been distorted in a form devoid of scientific basis by the Turkish Historical institution and the Turkish Language Foundation, making it look as if it had been practiced in Turkish, ignoring its ethnic structure. It's all about cultural assimilation policies. All the different cultures that have been imprisoned so far because of the state's monotheistic policies must be discovered and their development must be ensured. Dear lawmakers, another issue is tourism. It should not be forgotten that our eastern and Southeast region has a rich potential for culture and tourism and will contribute seriously to our people and our country's economy in the event that this is evaluated. Unfortunately, for a long time, that potential has been shown to be spared from the public and the economy. It is also said that there is no safe environment as a reason why this potential cannot be valued, but that reason cannot be excused. Because the government's priority is to establish peace in the region. A state that has taken no steps to establish peace is justified and unrealistic. In this context, the province of Haqkari is a rich historical entity and a province with the potential for tourism. However, due to the wrong policies and neglects of the state, many historical structures and fields have been abandoned to their own destiny, with carelessness and lack of care, are being destroyed at greater speeds every day. Our historical assets have been abandoned to their own destiny as a result of security policies, climate conditions, and unconscious use. Due to security policies in the region, these rich cultural areas of our province have unfortunately been torn from the public and made a security area. One of them, the historic Haqkari Castle, is still under the use of soldiers by being assigned to the National Ministry of Defence. Sat Lake, the Bercelan plateau, and other historical and tourist plateaus that live together again for the four seasons, are also closed to tourism. However, the historic Square Medress of Hakkari, the historical River Village of Şemdinli, was abandoned to their fates again because of indifference. The cultural centre, which was laid out in Turkey's southeastern province in 1993, was still left unfinished and abandoned, after 18 years. The Haqkari Castle, used by soldiers, is one of the great cultural heritages of the people who live around it today, even though it is only a bare rock. It's a need for humanity and civilization to reopen that legacy to its owners. In the 21st century, no modern and democratic law state should withhold this right from its citizens. Confiscating a public's cultural and historical values increases social tension, and sets the stage for constant bleeding of wounds. Persistence to remove the local people from their past, historical, cultural values would undermine their desire to live together, undermine their trust in the state. Again, the Square Medress of Hakkari was used as the most important educational institution in the 18th and 19th century as a prison between 1925 and 1950, and the building was completely destroyed after 1950. First, we expect that Hakkari Castle will be restored to public service. We especially ask that the Square Medresesi be transformed into a museum that will introduce the Hakkari cultural building to new generations, and that the cultural centre in our district of Yükselova be transferred to the municipality of Yüksekova, and that it be opened as soon as possible. Another issue like this is that we expect the Ministry to carry out its duty and responsibility to ensure that this historical presence of Hasankeyf, which is considered a natural wonder in our country and in the world, will not be lost and no historical interruptions. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we believe there is a need for a democratic culture art policy in accordance with the reality of our country as I end my words here. Based on the need to protect and protect cultural values of all segments, the production of art for everyone and making it available to all segments of society throughout the country will give us a realistic dimension to boast about our differences. I wish you well in the budget, and I pay you my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0247par0099	Thank you, Mr. Canan. Your time is up, sir. The first speaker on behalf of the AK PARTI Group is İstanbul MP Mehmet Mush. Here you go, Mr. Mush. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0248par0105	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports in 2012. I salute your high council. Each society needs some dynamics to sustain its life, to fight its own existence in the future, and to fulfill a world it has set up in its ideal. These needs cannot be arranged for life and the future without being provided. The most important of these dynamics is undoubtedly youth. We have to open the way for young people in the country's administration, in their art, in their politics, in their economy, in working life, in order to leave them with a strong democracy, a strong country. Today, we need young people who read history correctly, who free knowledge from the bondage of the day-to-day accounts, who combine the love, love, excitement with knowledge, to serve their homeland. Instead of freeing the idea, free of conscience, free of knowledge, and free of speech, our young ones have been tried to produce a generation that has been silenced, unspoken. The country's youth's life, its thinking, was sought to be one-typed by interference. In this perspective, the youth of this country was tried to get into schools as they entered the barracks. In the past, our young people have suffered a great deal. The most ambitious young men in the country have been turned against each other and have been physically and mentally injured in the cells of prisons and have become passive, passive. The future of our country was abandoned and silenced by the 27th of May, 12th of March, and 12th of September, when young people lost all their misfortunes, ideas, and ideals. There has been coefficient cruelty in this country. It's even more painful, and I'm sorry to say that he's also found political support. As if their own children were victims of discrimination among the youth of this country. Such an approach, irrational, baseless, unfair, contrary to the principle of equality of the Constitution, has taken away young people's dreams of Turkey, their ideals. I'm speaking as someone who's experienced the injustice of this practice just because he graduated from vocational school. Thousands of young people like me didn't get a chance to study in their own country, so they searched abroad for schools to continue their studies, and they struggled to study in foreign countries. Mr. President, this injustice, which is a product of the 28 February process that has hurt everyone, even plants, has ended again during the AK PARTY, thanks be to Allah. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] By hiding behind the coefficient applications, the scenarios set on young people have failed and have taken their place in the dark pages of history. Because of the probate ideology put ahead of young people, we have opened the way for civil and democratic debates to take place without fighting, without breaking and entering. The young are not to be trusted. It is said that politics is not to be trusted. In reducing the age of selection to twenty-five, the logic of trusting our young ones is valid. Young people have a way of moving their savings, dynamism, to the government of the country. Our population under 30 years of age, valued lawmakers, is now nearing 40 million. The young population is not only our capacity to produce, our labor energy, but also our young brain, our dynamic spirit, our horizon. In the words of our prime minister, a youth that has not gained moral and moral values, has been purged of its basic national values, can neither protect the future of the country nor the future of our republic. In this sense, the Department of Youth and Sports has been transformed into the Ministry of Youth and Sports, trying to provide more opportunities for young people in the country. A youth with national and spiritual values, who clearly say they believe, who believes in the idea of violence, who trusts in it, who believes in it, who believes in it, and who is not in favor of the status quo, and who is not vulnerable, is working for a youth, despite its new creation, our Ministry of Youth and Sports continues very quickly. The country's young will fulfill the 2023 vision of Turkey, which will carry our country further than this point, where human rights, law and democracy have come under their fingernails without compromise. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0249par0120	Thank you, Mr. Mush. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the second speaker is Mr. Hüseyin Şahin. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0250par0124	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. On behalf of myself and my group, I salute your grand delegation. The Ministry of Youth and Sports was re-designed on June 3, 2011, under the Constitution 638. According to this, it was established to study and research on the needs of youth and the services and opportunities offered to youth, to provide guidance and advice, to take encouraging measures to promote and promote the development and prevalence of sports activities, to identify policies to be implemented in this regard. One of our country's greatest values, perhaps the greatest, was intended to ensure that young people's services were collected and coordinated under one roof to give them the importance they deserve. According to data from the Turkish Statistical Agency, 42 per cent of our population is under the age of 24 and the high population of our country is a very valuable resource to have. In view of our 15- to 20-year-old youth population, at the end of 2010, it reached 12 million, 545k, and produces 17 percent of the total population. In our country, however, young people between 15 and 40 years of age are faced with challenges such as finding work, completing education, creating an identity, forming a family. As our ancestors say, the tree bends when it is old. As the proverb clearly states, we must set our youth policies healthy for our young ones. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, sports from the Ministry's activities are now at a very important and social and economic point. It is known that successful sports countries are more advanced in economic and social areas than others. The proportion of people who exercise in developed countries reaches half the total population, while Turkey is only at 2 per cent. Studies show that the number of members of the sports club in our country is very low. It is inevitable that our young population will move our country to its rightful place in sports, as well as in political and economic areas, with the right policies determined. To this end, the importance of our youth centers is revealed. We need to increase the number of these centers, increase the activity and species, build separate buildings, and prepare environments where families can safely send their children to these centers and be raised as useful members of society. In this area, youth centres are organised every year by sea and bow camps, offering young people the opportunity to assess their free time through social, cultural and sporting activities. Youth camps were paid by 2003, but starting in 2004, they began serving our underprivileged young people for free. Educating and guiding activities aimed at boosting young people's interest in science, art and cultural areas will be supported. Mr. President, I'd like to talk to you about some of the ministry's youth services in 2011: 3,700 young people have been involved in the Çanakkale-Billy history and culture tours and have been involved in learning about our past and history. About 2,000 young people attended the Istanbul Cultural Capital meeting in Istanbul, the European Capital of Culture. 2,520 young people have joined the youth center exchange program. Eight thousand and five hundred of our young people participated in Turkish folk music competitions and Turkish folk games to promote our culture; there are many such activities. I'm running out of time. As a country, I would also like to point out that during this period of EC PARTY governments, we have been doing very well. Among these are the 2011 Erzurum University Winter Sports Games, 2011 Tripoli European Youth Games and 2013 Mediterranean Games in Mersin, which are considered to be held as part of the Mediterranean Games in the province of Mersin, which will be given to our country by modernisation and modernisation of the facilities in 2011. I -- I'm running out of time -- and I wish the 2012 fiscal year budget to our Sports Department well, with respect.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0251par0137	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. The third speaker on behalf of the AK PARTI Group is Mr. Osman Love Bak, our Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Bak.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0252par0141	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the 2012 budget of the Sports General Directorate for Youth and Sports. I salute your high council. The Sports General Directorate, which is joined to the Ministry of Youth and Sports under the Law No. 638 issued on June 6, 2011, serves with a total of 5,690 personnel in central and rural areas. Dear MPs, as you all know, in 2005, our country was successful in the Universe Games in İzmir, the UEFA Champions League finals in Istanbul, the World Basketball Championships in 2010, the World Wrestling Championships in Istanbul in 2011, the European Youth Olympic Games in Tripoli, again in Erzurum, and the 25th World Inter-United Winter Games in Istanbul. Twenty-one international organisations at the European and world championship level will be held in our country in 2012, including the World Hall Athletics Championship and the European Weightlifting Championship for the Elders in Antalya. In 2013, the organisation of the Mediterranean Games will be held in Mersin. In addition to all these organizations, the esteemed MPs have been named the European Sports Capital of Istanbul, 2012. Our Minister of the European Union, Mr. Egemen Bagis, İstanbul Metropolitan Mayor Mr. Kadir Topbaş and AK PARTI İstanbul MP Mr. Hakan took over the flag from Valencia, Spain, in Brussels, on 30 November 2011. Because Istanbul is the European Sports Capital, many international sports organizations will be organised in our country during 2012. Today our country has the most glorious sports facilities of each other. There is no country that currently invests so much in sports and develops its sporty portfolio in such a dynamic way. Our country now has a say in sports and international arenas, as it does in every field today. Mr. President, the year 2012 is the Olympic year for all countries. While the Ministry of Youth and Sports is being restructured, it will face a major test in 2012. I believe our Minister of Youth and Sports will succeed with his young and dynamic structure, and I wish him and his team the best. The Olympic Games in London are now two hundred and twenty-seven days away. I sincerely believe that by joining the 2012 London Olympic Games in a large sports caravan, we will repeat our historic success at the London Olympics in 1948. On this occasion, I wish all our athletes the best of all who will compete in the 2012 London Summer Olympic Games. Dear lawmakers, Olympic games, the world's largest sporting organisation, are a gathering of civilizations that bring all the colors and cultures of the world together. Our Olympic candidacy was officially announced by our Prime Minister on 13 August 2011. At the meeting held at the Olympic House, our Prime Minister announced Turkey's candidacy in the following words: Today we have come together to announce our 2020 Olympic Games nominations, which we consider very important to our country and our people. We're excited because we sincerely believe we'll get there this time. Turkey is an Olympic country at its core. The torch would suit this country very well. Dear lawmakers, at this point, have been given great duties to our government, the national Olympic Committee of Turkey, all political parties, our MPs, our civil society organizations, our businessmen, our written and visual media to bring the Olympics to Istanbul. Dear lawmakers, I have a dream, and I want to share it with you: I want a Turkey that successfully organized the 2020 Olympic Games in 2023 between 10 major economies in the world. Istanbul is ready, Turkey is ready. On this occasion, I would like to welcome your grand delegation to our nation, especially our young ones, in the 2012 budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0253par0153	Thank you, Mr. Bak. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the fourth speaker is Konya MP Mustafa Akış. Here you go, Mr. Flush.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0254par0157	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. The most important power of the Republic of Turkey is its young population, as each nation states at any moment. This young population, described as Turkey's hope, has always been at risk of becoming the source of serious social problems. Because our recent political history is full of examples. When this potential young population was to be the carrier of development and development, it always struggled with problems and could not express itself freely, nor could it offer the desired benefit to our country. However, the AK PARTY government has acted with the awareness that every investment in youth is equivalent to drawing the course for our future, and has provided serious support for the physiological, personal, and spiritual development of our youth. At the very beginning of the institutions providing these benefits is the General Directorate for Higher Education Loans and Homes. FROM 2002, the EC PARTY has also opened a breakthrough under the roof of this institution at the point of support for university students. In 2002, the scholarship amount of 45 euros increased by 433 per cent with the AK PARTY, and today reached 240 TL. Our undergraduate students are paid twice that, and their PhD students are paid three times that. And has this price been increased by 433%, and the number of benefits dropped? Of course not. As in all areas of life, the AK PARTI government has also done its due, with the number of students receiving student loans in 2002, reaching 1,100,000 today. Also, as our representatives in the 22nd and 23rd centuries know, the various laws that have been passed have been given, in the process of receiving this loan and repaying it, with such ease and exceptions that we cannot count because it will not be time-consuming here. The EC PARTY was also a major development in domestic services during its rule. In 2002 77 districts were served in 59 districts with 193 dorms, while today 81 districts and 127 districts continue to serve 304 dorms and university students. However, in 2002, our dorms had a bed capacity of 190 thousand, and that number is now 267. This capacity growth occurred despite the abandonment of the bunk system before the EC PARTY. In other words, the number of students living in the dorms has been reduced, while all of Turkey has increased its bed capacity with its new modern dorm buildings. A 900 per cent increase has also occurred in nutrition aid along with the EC PARTY. With all that I've told, the AK PARTI authorities have attributed the highest value to young people and have allowed our university students, one of the most important parts of youth, to live in more human conditions. Youth was considered a risk element, a danger, before the EC PARTY, but today the biggest investment was in young people and young people's education. Today, we still have a party that sees young people as a risk to the country's development, not as an obstacle, but as the greatest advantage. Today, again, as my fellow speakers have mentioned before me, the age of choice has been reduced to twenty-five with the EC PARTY, and young people have been placed in the decision-making mechanisms of politics. We, the youth of the AK PARTY, have been most pleased to see the age of chosen as young people who have already been involved in the decision-making process of our party since the beginning of our party, reduced to twenty-five years. With this change, not only young people who have given their heart to the EC PARTY, but it has opened the way for the entire Turkish youth to be able to do politics in the highest place under this roof from the heart of the nation. Dear lawmakers, there is a youth no longer passive, high self - confidence, effective; now there is a youth armed, armed, not armed, but equipped with knowledge. I say that investment in a youth equipped with knowledge will continue with the 2012 budget of investment in education, housing of this youth, and especially with the approval votes from us young MPs, I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0255par0167	Thank you, Mr. Flush. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, Şanlıurfa MP Zeynep Adıç. Mr. Goody, here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0256par0171	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism in the ninth round of the 2012 Financial Year Budget Bill. I salute the High Council and our beloved nation. It is the responsibility of managing cultural policies, a service and responsibility for society, history, the future, to assess our heritage, the social structure of our country without prejudice. The EC PARTY government has made this assessment, adopted a new cultural policy that speeds up normalisation. Normalisation in Turkey is more than expressing the table of social reconciliation, recognizing cultural diversity, leaving being a party at the state policy level, becoming hugger and supportive. The government's job is not to take sides among social identities or to face society as its own. Thankfully, the period when almost all communities are considered a threat because of their identity is behind them. The understanding of public values and lifestyles and modernisation of society by the state has also remained in history because of the EC PARTY policies. The book of Necip Fazil, Mem-u Zin, and the book of Ziya Gökalp, and Nazim Hikmet, and Necip Fazil. That's what's supposed to happen, that's normalization. Our Ministry of Culture and Tourism is taking a position with the responsibility of protecting our country's multicultural and multiethnic society structure and cultural heritage and making major moves with the competent cultural and tourism policies. Our ministry performs its services in multiple areas, embodying that view. In 2002, when we evaluated the Ministry, we reached a Turkey with 42 cultural centers and a Turkey with 85 cultural centers today. In the last five years -- just as an example -- we've opened 22 new theater scenes in the theatre area, and one of their duties was to take public theaters to 370 domestic tours, and we've reached 1,722,294 viewers. As a result of the renovations, 16 museums and units closed to visit have been opened to the service of our people and tourism. We didn't have structures all over the world that helped promote country policy in terms of culture, language, and public diplomacy, but today, the number of Yunus Emre research institutes has reached 18. Our ministry sees tourism as a leading sector in regional development, increasing employment, increasing foreign currency revenues, and contributing to our country's sociocultural structure, and now our country is an important tourism country with the rich potential, product diversity, dynamic tourism sector, with advantages over rival countries. The number of foreigners visited our country during January-September 2011 increased by 10.7 per cent from the same period of the previous year, and 25 million 625,298 people visited our country. According to the January-September 2011 data, tourism revenues from foreign and citizen visitors also rose to $14.6 billion, compared to the same period of the previous year. Another way to think about it is that we are a country in the world today that is the seventh in terms of the number of tourists and the 10th in terms of tourism revenues. Our ministry, which totalled $1 billion,705,76, increased its income by 13 per cent compared to the previous year. The funds sent to cities to improve tourism infrastructure reached $24.5 billion in 2002 and reached 203.7 million in 2010. In this context, I would also like to stress the importance of strengthening the potential of our city, which has great cultural potential for cultural tourism, the Edessa Archeology Museum, the Aleppobahçe Mosaic Museum, and the construction of the archeopark and the cultural center as quickly as possible. The active attitude of our ministry will also speed up developments in our Shanghai and changing the course of the world's history, including the UNESCO World Heritage List. When we evaluate our ministry's policy of culture and tourism with its results, Turkey...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0257par0187	Mr. Goody, thank you, your time is up.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0256par0188	Thank you all.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0257par0190	On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, Sakarya MP Ayşenur Islam. Here you go, Islam.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0258par0193	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget for the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the General Directorate of State Opera and Ballet. I salute our High Council, our beloved nation. The very loud music we met during the modernization movement and the institutionalization of these fundamental arts in our country go back a long way. The first nuance of opera and ballet in our country is Musiki Muallim School, founded in 1924. The first opera representations were given during the 1941-42 season by students of this school, which later became a conservatory. Very loud music has a power that affects the human soul, conscience, mind, and mind. In this regard, the arts where loud music is used need to be considered as an educational tool as well. The State Opera and Ballet General Directorate, which continues to work with such consciousness, strives to bring musical, dancing, and dramatic works to all parts of society in order to spread these arts, which are the upper cultural indicators of the community. Today, the State Opera and Ballet General Directorate continues its stage activities with its managerships in six counties. Some of the arrangements made in 2008 have made the General Manager's establishment more functional, the institution's overall goals have been strengthened, and major and important projects have been implemented. I'd like to give you some statistical data to see the distance that's been traveled in this area over the past decade: for example, the number of performances that have been performed in 2002 has increased to 752, up to 30 percent in the 2010-2011 art season. The number of spectators has risen from 232.760 to 305,000, and the rate of increase is 31 percent. The number of domestic tours has risen from 98 to 380. The ratio is 288%. The number of international tours has risen from 11 to 31, and the rate of rise is 182 percent. The number of native art representations -- which I would like to underline -- has risen from 169 to 568, which has a rising rate of 236 percent. The number of festivals that became international operas and ballet festivals in 2002 has now risen to six. These festivals and contests also stimulate the art life and contribute to our country's international promotion. Again, for the first time in our country in recent years, the Ankara Leyla Gencer Scene has been organised as a child's opera and ballet. Such arrangements and activities continue to increase in all other county offices. The General Manager's office, which is very important for the Anatolian tours, continues to increase public representation and activities. There's an innovation they've put into practice this year. They're about to increase the number of county managers, which are six, to about 12, because 6 provinces, each of which will choose a pilot's province to continue their established activities in 12 provinces this year. Therefore, I would like to say that the Ankara State Opera Ballet Directorate will give permanent representations at Sivasta, İstanbul Bursa, İzmir Denizli, Mersin Gaziantep, Antalya Konya, Samsun da Tripoli. The opening of the Samsun State Opera and Ballet Directorate is a very important innovation, an important achievement for the Black Sea region. After reviewing the results of these pilot applications that I have just mentioned, there may also be a small opening in the following period. Finally, I would like to say that I wish to make arrangements for artists' rights, especially pensions, so that art institutions can function better. In addition, modern theatre, concert and opera buildings must be duplicated to respond to aesthetic and cultural needs. And I hope this will be done one by one in the future. With these wishes, I wish the budget to be good for all of our institutions, and my respects to your great coven.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0259par0203	Dear Islam, thank you. Now it's time for the Istanbul MP, Halide Tüzkara. Here you are, Mr. Incekara.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0260par0207	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, General Directorate of State Theatres. The work of my growing country also cares about the work of a wife, the height of culture, the activities of art, and I want to point out the importance of competing with other services for our country and for our youth. State Theatres, one of the roots of our Republic, were founded in 47, in Ankara, in Little Stage, with a play called "Short Stage" and in 49 with Act 5441. It's built on many missions: contributing to our cultural development, creating a national repertoire, developing theatre art and so on. The State Theatres, loaded with so many missions, have not had much peace with the nation and the people. He's had his first 50 years dealt with a lot of criticism. I'm not gonna do those reviews. I've done a lot of research commissions with the shortage I've seen. I will do it again from the mouth of a man of great respect, from the mouth of Professor Ayşegül Yüksel. She says that the state, unable to function in its own theater, has not supported open, eager young amateur communities, aimed at approaching the public, building the theatre with the public, and our theatre, as the noble entertainment of several great cities, has grown in a certain measure of value and a limited sense of art and has always removed its author, actress, critic from urbanist intellectuals, as a result of which the state-given theater has not been able to be more than an art temple in our country to address only one minority. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm sorry to say that while I'm listening to some friends here, I see the extensions of those minority and noble people in cultural activities. The minority is its own, its own, who is not integrated with the people, and who tells us that every time he looks at us, we don't understand culture and art. Let's compare what you've done in 50 years to what we've done in ten years.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0261par0215	No, no, don't laugh like that! Shame!
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0260par0216	Look, wait a minute... You left it with 23, you left it with 58, you left it with 8,000 seats, we made it 20 grand. I mean, I'm sorry to say, we've always done it, we've always done it well, we've always done most of it. We're at such a speed that we can't stop now, guys. Don't worry about it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look at what that power you're making fun of has done: three hundred and seventy tours in 2010-2011, and eight hundred and seventy representations.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0262par0220	Who are you talking to? Are you telling Mustafa Elitas, who are you telling? The motherland was in power, you're telling them? The Justice Party was in power, you're telling them? Come on, answer me, who are you talking to?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0260par0221	He performed 13 tours and 18 representations abroad. I'll tell you something else: he signed under something during the 2009-2010 season, celebrating his 60th birthday, and he got 60 new games in his repertoire. Dear President, all children are in the theater! Every school is a theatre! Let there be no children who have not seen theatre! We have spent a decade with projects such as women who have never seen theatre! We have not only targeted women and children, but also integrated into the public by participating. In addition to that, we shared scenes with our children, who were led to crime.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0263par0224	Is it necessary at this time of night? This is Mr. Elitas.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0264par0225	He's talking to people, people! No offense to the public.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0260par0226	Yeah, jealousy's a bad thing, don't touch it. Let's talk about it.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0265par0228	They can't stand it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0260par0229	Look, he's not gonna be able to do it, but you guys need to be cool, so don't do so much stuff, don't talk so much, just let the numbers talk. I'll tell you now. Look, you've taken 23 scenes, you've taken them up to 58, you've taken them out of 12 provinces, you've taken them up to 25, you've taken them out of 8,000 seats, you've taken them up to 20,000, you've brought them up to 7.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0266par0231	Ma'am, you transferred from us because you failed.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0260par0232	Now, naturally, you will be tolerated. It's hard to be jealous. Now, there's another beauty that was done during this period of power that they despised. I suggest you go and see it, it's a beautiful residency library. All of the artifacts that have been put on stage so far have been digitalized. You go, you watch as you wish. There's the posters, there's the brochures. But I'll tell you this, Minister, I'll turn around and tell you right now. I want theaters to compete with schools. [HIP rows ▪Bravobooks, applause!] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I want an artist to compete with a teacher.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0267par0238	Mr. Tüykara, thank you, sir, your time is up. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the final speaker is Konya MP Cem Cem Hard. Mr. Hardcore, here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0268par0242	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group to explain my views on the budget of the Ministry of Culture's Writers' Office of Turkey. First of all, I would like to begin by saying no to His Holiness, who sums up his life as a man of the host, who has made me happy, cooked, burned, and burned. Pir has always called on mankind to the truth and to the truth, and this call from all around the world has been answered. The events held from December 10th to December 17th in Konya rekindle the fire of love and love that Pir burned. Under the roof of our High Council, I wish to command the tolerance of the Lord and salute you dear fellow workers. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are a private-budget entity whose legal personality belongs to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism is established according to Law 6093, dated 30/12/2010 and published in the Official Gazette 27801. The fulfilment of tasks related to writing works depends on training qualified staff and employment, preparing suitable locations and physical conditions, resolving the management problem and providing necessary resources. Turkey's Writing Arts President was founded in Istanbul on the basis of the writing-based Suleymaniye Writing Library. Most of its writings from Seljuk and Ottoman times include history, art, literature, religion, applied sciences, and other cultural beings written in many areas. It is important to protect and expose these artifacts, to introduce our culture to the world, to be passed on to future generations, and to fund scientific studies. These features and values of writing artifacts require that they be employed by qualified personnel, subject to different librarian procedures, and that different methods are especially used to offer them to the ministry. The translation, simplification and coercion work must be carried out, along with the necessary library procedures for providing the physical environment and security conditions needed to be delivered to future generations in the original form, to be organised and restored, to be funded by scientific studies, to be introduced, to be published, to be published in the name of our culture. There are 166,210 volumes written in 28 libraries in the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the General Directorate of Libraries and Publishing. 14 of these libraries are writing libraries and 14 are public libraries. Writing works are mostly located in libraries in Istanbul, especially in the Süleymaniye Writing Library, with 106,174 works. Arts of priceless miniatures, ebru and epithelials are created for Ottoman monarchs and other palaces. The Collection of the Writing Library of Solomonia, along with its five writing libraries, consists of over 90 thousand volumes of manuscript and a rare print. Because of its collection and its duties, the Suleimanian Writing Library, which has a legitimate reputation in our country and the world, has become a school in the field as it fulfills tasks such as cataloging, categorising, protecting, restorations, and is also trying to meet the demands for theoretical and practical educational programmes from outside the public institutions and abroad. In an effort to ensure ease in implementing the Turkish Writers' Office, to promote the work of writing throughout the country and reduce bureaucracy, he has organized libraries in the Marmara Region to be centrally organised, and the writing libraries in Anatolia are integrated under his own administration as units of Ankara and the Konya district managers, which will be established. Mr. President, as I end my remarks, the Ministry of Culture wishes that the President of Turkey's Writing Works' budget be good for our country and our nation, and on behalf of the AK PARTY Group and myself, I salute you all with respect and conversation.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0269par0255	Thank you, Mr. Hardcore. Congressmans, on behalf of their groups, the speeches are complete. Now, on behalf of himself, Mr. Abu Bakir Secretider, Nevşehir MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0270par0260	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the financial budget of 2012, the Office for Higher Education Loans and Homes, which is part of the Ministry of Youth and Sports budget. I hereby salute the High Council. In 2002, 77 districts and 59 districts serve only 193 dorms, 188 thousand students, while in 81 districts and 127 districts, 304 dorms are served at 267.080 beds. In nine years, we have increased bed capacity by 42 per cent, even though the EC PARTY has been switched from the ward system to the cot system. With innovations, past practices have been terminated, the ward system has been abandoned and the bath system has been completely eliminated in the showers. In the home buildings built before our government, the most crowded student rooms have been made available to 4 to 6 students. 60 percent of our students in our homes are girls and 40 percent are male students. With the student dorms opening by the end of March 2012, it is intended to exceed 300,000 capacities. From January 1, 2006, our government first started the breakfast practice for our students. Our students receive $1.75 for breakfast, $3.25 for dinner. Feeding allowance has been raised to 5 liras with an increase of 900 per cent. As of 2004, students who apply for loans and housing are granted scholarships -- I repeat -- all students are granted student loans and contributions. In my schooling, however, the student who won the scholarship from 1997 to 2001 seemed to have been given the good news of paradise. In 2002, the monthly amount of loan paid to students was 45 liras, while in 2011 it increased by 433% to 240 liras. We also provide student loans so that he can continue his studies without ignoring our students whose scholarships were dropped because of their failure before us. In 2002, 451,550 students received student loans, while in 2011 the number of students received scholarships and student loans reached 1,24,991. On March 6, 2004, the Law No. 5102 and the student scholarships were saved from being seized. Again, 10/12/2010 dates and 6082 Laws have doubled the repayment period on student loans and student loans. Again, the latest loan loans were delayed by Law 6111, the restructuring of loan debt in pursuit of Law 5917, the extended deadline, and the reconciliation of the state with our students. Mr. President, dear friends, a total of 192 111,230 housing projects are included in the 2011 investment programme of the Ministry of Loans and Homes within the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Actually, there's a transcript of projects going on here that are over, but I don't want to bore you with numbers. On this occasion, I will make it very brief about the services of my district of Nevşehir. Our town of Nevşehir has only 150 capacity boys' homes by 2002, while 726 girls' homes with capacity today have totalled 876. Again, the construction of a 500-year-old dorm and the construction of a second 500-year-old dorms has been upgraded to 750, with the compliments of our Minister and Mr. General Manager. Here, on behalf of Nevşehir, I want to thank the Minister, the bureaucrats who have worked hard, and the Director General of the Credit and Homes Association, all of the Institution employees. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are an opposition to the Constitutional Court, which we can't finish by counting their services to students, and on the other hand, the practice of opposition to students, which the municipalities continue to give the scholarships to the students, with an instinctive reflex. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0271par0274	Thank you, Mr. Undercover, your time is up. Congressmans, now it's the government's turn. Mr. Suat Sword, Minister of Youth and Sports. Here you go, sir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0272par0280	Mr. President, I have been promised the most respected MPs, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, to perform the 2012 budget presentation. I hereby salute your esteemed delegation with my most heartfelt respect. Very respected MPs, we've been witnessing negotiations that have really been going on for hours. We've had a very important contribution from lawmakers. I want to thank all of my fellow lawmakers, who have contributed to talks from both the ruling and opposition parties. Because this budget is our ministry's first unique budget after it has been established under the Constitution 638 as the Ministry of Youth and Sports. The budget budget for the Ministry of Youth and Sports has been submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for the first time. So, ahead of this budget, I would like to say thank you to all my bureaucrats, especially my fellow ministers, who have contributed to our financial resources at the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Finance during the preparation of the budget, on behalf of all of you, and on behalf of the very dear Turkish nation, which you represent. Because our performance on the budget performance, investment performance, completion of construction processes in the investment programme, which the Ministry of Youth and Sports will demonstrate this year, will also cover budget figures, performances, investment figures in the following year. So our fellow lawmakers here have also had a very important and valuable contribution, and I would like to repeat my thanks to my fellow public servants who have done their job. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have to make a comparison. Therefore, the partners of the previous coalition government certainly do not show any feisty because, of course, Turkey has increased national revenue potential, Turkey has increased foreign trade, there are serious increases in Turkey's total national income, a country that has significantly closed its debts. Not from 2002, but from 2001. In 2001, the Sports General Directorate's total investment start-up grant was $25.3m, 25.3 trillion, and a significant increase in years. In 2010, the Sports General Directorate attempted to implement its investment performance in Turkey, with 196 trillion old figures, with a start-up grant of $196m, 201m in 2011. In 2012, we were able to provide a 70 per cent increase in the initial initial funding of the investment budget that we're currently talking about, which is why it was my thanks. At the start-up grant of 2001 was 201 million euros, and at the start-up grant of 2012, we are able to start at $332 million, an old number, and a start at $332 trillion Turkish lira. Dear MPs, both Minister Faruk Nafiz Ozak, and our stockpile of projects, which we are currently in construction, began during the course of our ministers, who deem the ministry of youth and sports in the name of the AK PARTI in the nine-year process. We have 154 projects currently in Turkey's various locations. In addition to all of this, the total value of projects that we've included in the 2012 investment budget is 130 in parallel to the increasing numbers. 24 of them are the gym, 14 are the swimming pool, 14 are the track and bleachers, 4 are the ski resorts in various parts of Turkey, 68 are the youth and culture centers that we aim to give a serious acceleration starting this year. The whole project of all of this is 130. Since some of this is a new investment programme in the project phase, we are moving quickly to work on land and land procurement for an important part of it. Our goal, along with the 2012 investment programme, is not to leave a single province without a closed swimming pool throughout Turkey until the end of 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014, as the EC PARTY government, including the ones that started in 2011. I would like to share with you in the context of the new swimming pool: Aksaray, Aydın, Bayburt, Bingöl, Erzincan, Silverhouse, Haqkari, Karabük, Kars, Samsun, Mardin, Mersin, Niğde, Army, Osmaniye, Rize, Van, Malatya. Some of these are projects that continue to be built in rough construction, some of which we're going to start with the investment programme in 2012. We add the Gaziantep here now, where a project began under the governorship of the private administration, where we will take over as the Ministry of Youth and Sports and we will complete it. Very valuable lawmakers, I don't share with you the issues in the investment programme, which are on the investment programme, because, you know, time is money in budget talks, and time passes pretty quickly, and people on the bench don't really notice the time that goes by very easily. I don't share the provinces of youth centers with you one by one. I don't share gyms with you one by one in the same way. But here, there's the need to make a Mersin accent. In Mersin, as you know, we will perform the Mediterranean Games. In July of this year, we carried out the 11th European Youth Olympic Games in Tripoli, and thanks to these games, Tripoli also replaced our province among the cities that have largely completed sports infrastructure. In February 2011, we performed the Universe Winter Games in Erzurum. Our Erzurum province is among our provinces in the east, which complete the entire sport infrastructure, which greatly compensates for its shortcomings. Now, in the Mediterranean, in Mersin, we are moving with a new vision. I'd like to share a few things with you here. We're giving Mersin a new stadium. It's been auctioned off. We're going to give Mersin a new gym for 6,000 people. We're bringing one swimming pool, one shooting range, two closed small-scale gyms, one athletic track and athletic hall to Mersin again. A total of 12 pieces will be completed in a completely parallel with the needs of the day in Mersin province through the repairs of about 40 new works, as well.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0273par0293	What about Antalya Stadium?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0272par0294	I'll come to Antalya. I expect you to show some patience there. The most valuable MPs are now in Turkey...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0274par0296	Including Tarsus, Mr. Secretary, Tartarsus?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0272par0297	There's a stadium in the district of Tarsus. We're renovating that stadium as the Ministry of Youth and Sports. I can tell you about an estimated cost here. The cost of restoring Mersin Stadium has reached 7.5 trillion euros due to the arrival of Mersin Education from Bank Asia to the Super League was 7.5 million euros. The restoration and restructuring of the stadium in the district of Tarsus would also cost about six to seven million TL. Dear lawmakers, I'm not going into details on the counties and counties again. We are currently planning the construction of synthetic grass surface football fields in 176 separate settlements throughout Turkey. I'm just saying by differentialing these numbers, the construction and projecting of 121 synthetic grass-based football fields, which are still being auctioned off, given the grant, or at the tender stage, or trying to get a location. In addition to that, I'm sharing the number 175. Now, in some cities -- one of the things that our citizens expect most -- in which cities will the stadiums take place? What about the process and the purity of these? Dear lawmakers, in advance of the June 12, 2011 elections, I would like to say at this very moment that the stadium projects are being carried out in all of our provinces, which our Prime Minister has promised to build in parallel with the findings in the cities in which he had been in the process of laying the foundations.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0275par0301	He promised Sivas 5 times, 5 times!
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0272par0302	I'll start with opium, with Afyon. We laid the foundation of the stadium in our opium province. Currently, the Prime Minister's Public Housing Authority continues construction of the stadium in Afyon. Other cities that have been signed, I would like to state immediately, Batman, that we have signed the protocol with the Prime Ministerial Public Housing Administration. Batman will be tendered soon, and we will come to the groundbreaking stage. We've located the Gaziantep with our Gaziantep MPs, our mayor, our governor. We will also give Gaziantep to Gaziantep, a new stadium in Gaziantep Province, to play for a new and sports Toto Super League team. Another one of our states that signed the protocol, Hatay, and I'm going to state that here. I have Istanbul on my list, but the stadium in Istanbul is Turkish Telekom Arena Stadium. We've already completed 52,600 sitting stadiums, and they continue to serve. I know of the stadium of Malatiah province, which was spoken much in Malatya. To be honest, I'm perfectly pleased to hear it spoken. In Malatya, the stadium has entered the tender process. His tender will be held very soon. I've just expressed Mersin, but I'm going on the list, and I'm saying it over and over again. The tender for the stadium in Mersin province was again carried out under protocol with the Prime Ministerial Community Housing Administration. Let me put it this way. Our province of Sivas is the province that will be auctioned the stadium right after Malatya.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0276par0310	Mr. Secretary, he's told me five times, Mr. Prime Minister.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0272par0311	This is the first time I've said it. Our Prime Minister's word will be fulfilled in the early months of the new year. Right now, Sivas... the stadium in our province of Sivas... will be auctioned off in the Malatya tender process.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0276par0312	I hope so.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0272par0313	I've got Tripoli on my list. The problem in the province of Tripoli -- and Mr. Ozak -- is that as our esteemed minister, whom I took over from him -- is certainly not a problem from the government. In Tripoli, we await completion of the project in the Abyssinian filling field. If the architecture project is completed and can be completed in accordance with the delivery, we will take the first step for Tripoli -- its protocol is signed -- and we will take the first step in Tripoli. We have seven counties that have been completed, with nothing left but me, the Minister of Finance, and the president of TOKI together. I share them with you: Adana, Antalya, Diyarbakir, Eskişehir, Alexei, Sakarya and Samsun.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0277par0316	Why did you finally tell me about Samsun, Minister?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0272par0317	The last time I read Samsun was to concentrate on the main emphasis.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0277par0318	But you forgot Izmir!
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0272par0319	Dear lawmakers, if I can express in such a way that we will start 16 separate stadium projects in 2012 as Minister of Youth and Sports, at the point where Turkey came from, with its opposition, there will be no need to enter into the polem, I assure you, at least 1.2 or 1.3 quadrillion dollars at the cost of these stadiums after the tender.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0278par0320	Well, you take it, you borrow it, you borrow it!
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0272par0321	In a global economic crisis in which a Greek cannot pay pensions, because the government can't manage the economy in Italy, we should be proud of ourselves for being the representatives of a country that is strong enough to make the tender of 16 stadiums within a calendar year, the citizens of a nation that is so upright.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0278par0323	Our children will pay those debts.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0272par0324	Dear lawmakers, these artefacts are ours, believe me, these artefacts are ours.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0278par0325	That's right, that's right, but let's not leave our kids any debts.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0272par0326	None of us brought the source from our father's house when we did these things.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0278par0327	Let's not lend money to our grandchildren. We need to, uh...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0272par0328	We've worked hard, we've turned the source of this land, the source of this land into money, we've turned it into opportunity, we've turned it into opportunity.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0278par0329	You sold all the artifacts, and that's true!
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0272par0330	We've been able to establish a firmness, stability that can do these projects, so I don't mean me or the AK PARTY government, I just think, as a Turkish nation, we can all be very proud of ourselves, no matter how much we're proud of ourselves. Dear lawmakers, I was going to tell you about some Sports Toto, but time flies like I said. I'd like to tell you a little bit about the Mortgage Institution. Very respected MPs...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0279par0333	Sports Toto, Sports Toto... Mr. Secretary, Sports Toto... give it to the clubs. Give the clubs their dues, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0272par0334	If you're so insistent about your clubs, Mr. Mevlüt, let me make it clear. Sports Toto is 1 quadrillion 17 trillion Turkish liras that we transfer to our ministry's football through the head of the Agency.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0279par0336	How much money did you get from the bet? How much did you get from the bet, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0272par0337	1 quadrillion 17 trillion for football. The total number of clubs -- including the Turkish Football Federation, including the Basketball Federation -- is 1.27 quadrillion.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0279par0338	He took 15 trillion dollars, 15 trillion.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0272par0339	So 1 quadrillion 270 trillion Turkish liras. (AK PARTY) However, we have only one sixty-six federation and one hundred and thirty-seven trillion from 2011 alone.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0279par0340	It's not enough.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0272par0341	And I want you to know that we're giving the Federations 195 trillion, Bank Asian clubs, First Division, Second League, Third League clubs, very important resources from our Ministry, Sports Toto, in 2010. The rest of that money comes in as a back-up budget for investments, so don't worry. Very valuable MPs, I would like to share with you another figure we need to hear, which you will indeed be proud of his opposition to his power. Republic Turkey is the common value of all of us, one of our MPs, and I'm really sorry to be sitting where I'm talking. He said, "I don't believe in the sincerity of those who say "Ataturk." He said, "I don't believe in the sincerity of those who say "publicity." Congressman, I don't want to think you're ulterior motives, be well-intentioned, be well-intentioned. If it's my friends who call me Ataturk, who call me Ataturk, who call me "The Republic," who say "The Law," and who say "The Rights and Freedoms of Human Rights" I have no hesitation at all. There's no way that I'm ever going to hesitate about the way my opposition friends approach this issue. The opportunities we use are the possibilities of Republic Turkey, and we need to know that. Each of us must know exactly where we came from. We are where we are, thanks to the opportunities and opportunities provided by the republic's administration and democratic regime. So everyone should appreciate their place, understand it very well.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0280par0343	You sold our grandparents' work, lent money to our grandchildren.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0272par0344	Dear lawmakers, in our recent history, there has been no other period in which 192 dorm projects can date to the same calendar year within a calendar year. We started production in 2011, and in 2012, we're going to include in the new investment programme, which is based on the 192. That's the new bed capacity that we're going to create over 192 dorms. That's 110 grand. In about two years, we'll be able to develop 110,000 new bed capacity as part of the 192 project. That's a very important number. You can't take that number lightly, you have to take that number very seriously.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0281par0345	Thank you, Mr. Ozak.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0272par0346	I'll take your patience, your patience, and share these numbers with you. New 192 dorm projects: Adana thousand, Adana-Kozan 500, Adıyaman-Besni 300, Afyon-Bolvadin 500, Aman-Sultanda 300, Amassia 500, Ardahan 750, Aydın-Nazilli 500, Balıkesir-Bandır 500, Balıkesir-Bandım 500, Bursa-Karcabey 300, Denizli bin, Denizli-Honaz 300, Düzce 500, Edirne-Havsa, Edirne-Ipsala 300äer; Erzin 500, Balıkezil 500, Balıkesir-Badır-Bandım 500, 400-K, 500-Rak, 300-Rak, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, Uzana-Caks, 500, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, Uzana-Kaks, 300, 300, 500, 300, 300, 300, 500, 300, 300, 300, one-Ear-Ear-Edires, 300, 300, 500, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, la-Kar-Ear-Ear-Ear-a, 300, 500, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, one-Ear-Ear-Ear-Ear-Ear-Ear-Ear-Ear-Ear-Ear, 500, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300, one-Ear-Ear-Ear-Ear-Ear-Ear-Ear-Ear-Ear-Earn-Ear-Earn-Ear-Earn
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0281par0348	Samsun said 2,000, didn't you, Minister?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0272par0349	I said by adding up the number in Samsun, not dividing the counties, for that reason, but I appreciate your attention, thank you. Antalya 1,500, Çankırı bin, İstanbul 500, Manisa-Brides 300, Army-Unye 500, Tripoli-Sürmene 300, Kahramanmarash-Surmaz 300, Malatya-Arapkir 300, Burdur-Göhisar 500, Kütahya-Gediz 500, Mardin 750, Tekirdağ 500, Antalya 300, Tunceli 500, Çanakkale 300, Mersin 3.500. Moving on, valuable MPs. Van 750, Manisa 500, Silver House 750, Zonguldak and Aydın 500...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0282par0352	Mr. Secretary, there are 60,000 students in Kobeeli, 5,000 dorms.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0272par0353	Niğde 500, Izmir bin, Ercish 600, Afyon 300, Istanbul 500, Bayburt 750. It's not over yet, God bless you. There'll be more, there'll be more. There's been a conversation here that I'm sorry about. A friend of ours said, "Maybe the city of Kurdistan is being deprived of investments." I watched with sadness. Honourable MPs, Turkey has seven geographical regions: the Mediterranean, the Black Sea, the Marmara, the Aegean, Central Anatolia, East Anatolia and Southeast Anatolia. There is no region in Turkey called Kurdistan. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) But our Kurdish brothers... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Our Turkish brothers, Arab brothers, one country, one state, one flag, one nation... Mr. President, I'm finishing. Very respected lawmakers, we all have a country in which we live together in every part of our geography. We should be proud of this country. In this country, the smallest contribution, the smallest rank, the smallest share, to build new territories, to care for anyone. We are one nation with Turkish, Kurdish, Arab, Albanian, and fingernailed with meat. There's no need to discuss it, there's no need to discuss it now, but if we're asked to speak with the document, the information, the valued MPs...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0283par0360	Mr. Secretary, even the courts have agreed that there is a geography called Kurdistan.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0284par0361	Congressman...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0272par0362	If there was time, I sure as hell wouldn't be able to count it. Diyarbakır Gym, 5000 living halls; Diyarbakır Bismil Gym; Diyarbakır Çınar; Batman Bashirli Gym; Bitlis Adıcevaz, Bitlis Güroymak sports halls; Bingöl Kayak Centre; Adıyaman Sports Hall, Adıyaman Youth Centre; Gerger Sports Hall; Ağrı Tuk Gym; Tuş Youth Centre; Mush Atletism Youth Stadium; Şanlıurfa Sports Hall; Şanlıurfa Sports Hall; Şanlıurfa Youth Centre; Sivelürfa Youth Centre; Vanek Youth Centre; Adıtik Gymöl.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0285par0366	Mr. Secretary, in ten years, that's not a skill.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0286par0367	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0287par0368	Mr. President, give me five more minutes, let's hear it, let's know what's going on.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0288par0369	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for your information. We've done things that haven't been done in 80 years in nine years.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0289par0370	Sir, let him speak, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0290par0371	Thank you, sir, thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0289par0372	Sir, let him speak, there's more. Forty minutes, isn't it, sir?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0291par0373	The General Assembly salutes you, and I wish you the best of our budget.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0289par0375	He speaks for the government.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0292par0376	Sir, excuse me, please, okay.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0289par0377	But he speaks for the government, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0292par0378	Yes, he spoke on behalf of the government, we'll cut him off from the other Minister, don't worry.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0289par0379	Mr. Ertugrul will give you his time. It does, sir. It does. Mr. Ertugrul is giving, let Mr. Suat speak.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0292par0380	Excuse me. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0289par0382	Sir... oh, my God!
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0292par0383	Thank you, sir, thank you. Allow me to direct, Mr. President. Yes, Mr. Günay, please, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0293par0386	Sir, don't cut in. He's the government.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0294par0387	Wait a minute, wait a minute.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0292par0388	There is no such procedure, but allow the Minister to speak and then come to the question. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0294par0390	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary must have picked on him during his speech.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0295par0391	No hard feelings.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0296par0392	Mr. President, Mr. Ozkoc wants to speak on behalf of Article 69.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0297par0393	No, what he picked on, didn't give a name, didn't say anything.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0298par0394	Who picked on you, sir?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0296par0395	Mr. Özkoc said the words of Mr. President were translated into another meaning...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0298par0396	Excuse me, let's get the transcripts, and let's promise whoever picked on them.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0299par0397	What did he pick on, who did he say? He never mentioned a name, why is he being so touchy?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0296par0398	No, Mr. Secretary has considered the words of Mr. Ozkoc to mean something else.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0298par0399	He didn't give a name. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0299par0400	No, he didn't give me a name.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0300par0401	He didn't give a name, but we know who he was talking to, sir. Let him name it.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0298par0402	Let's get him in, let me see, I don't know.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0301par0403	Sir, we know who's talking. Mr. President, please, the Civil Code is very clear, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0298par0405	Sir, let's get the reports, I don't remember the name memo.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0302par0406	I didn't say anything.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0303par0407	No, he didn't give me a name.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0298par0408	That's what the Minister says. If there is, I promise.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0304par0409	He didn't give us a name, but we know who did, sir. Let him name it.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0305par0410	Sir, we know who's talking.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0298par0411	Let's get him, sir. If there's a tease, I'll give it to him. I didn't hear it. I didn't mention the name.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0305par0412	Mr. President, just a moment...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0306par0413	But let him tell me what he's picking on.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0305par0414	Mr. President, are you taking the minutes, sir?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0307par0415	Sir, if you'll excuse me, one of us could talk.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0305par0416	Mr. President, no, you're not done talking. I didn't understand what you said last time. Are you bringing in the transcripts, sir?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0307par0417	Yes, sir, let's get it and see if we can get it.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0305par0418	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0307par0419	Mr. Ertugrul Günay, Minister of Culture and Tourism. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 18 minutes, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0308par0422	Mr. President, my dear friends, at today's last budget meeting, I'd like to start by welcoming you all with a warm welcome. On the budget of our Ministry, 10 friends of mine have made promises from power and opposition, according to my notes, thank you very much. Apart from a few limited examples or sentences, our friends have been careful not to waste time with any polemics or eunuchs. Personally, me and my friends, my friends from the Ministry, we used to listen to our fellow speakers, we took notes, we tried to see what we were missing. Dear friends, first, thank you all very much. The government and opposition pointed out that the area we work in is important and that our budget is inadequate. We're aware of that, but I think a friend of mine has pointed out that, unfortunately, Turkey hasn't experienced a budgetary distinction in the importance of the important area we've been working on in the past few years. When I started out, the 2008 budget, at the end of 2007, was 800-plus million, our budget went up to 1,700. This is actually a significant increase when you look inside yourself, but within the main size of the budget, our rate has reached from 38 to 50 percent in a thousand. Of course, as Turkey's resources grow, we will increase that budget. In addition, 10 per cent of the property tax released in 2005 is a resource that we use to improve cultural assets, and it's been a great comfort to our workspace, which has been growing rapidly in our own return capital opportunities in recent years. I want everyone to know that we're trying very hard not to use a single penny of the nation's rights against purpose, but we're trying to make sure that every penny is used for the benefit of the nation. So in recent years, our performance in both tourism and culture has come to a level that will bleach our faces. Our friends, our friends from the opposition, have expressed it in a certain way, because this rise clearly appears to be the rise in tourism and the rise in culture. We work in two areas, one of which is medial. Tourism is a tool field, but culture, I think, is a much larger area than what we perceive when we say "culture." When you say culture, we're more like books, literature, poetry, fine arts, we're sensing them, but the whole of life is culture. So culture is about what our total quality of life is, and studies in culture are about raising our total quality of life. Tourism is one of their tools. Let people from the world come and see our country; yes, let us come from this, but our people can see other parts of the world, see the beauty of our country, and realize the quality of life, the quality of life of those who come after us, the quality of our country's young generations, in every area, in literature, in poetry, not in fine arts, in democracy, in all the areas of human rights, in all the areas of our relationship, let Turkey be better than we are in a good place, in a good way. We work in a field like this. In tourism, we got Turkey with 13 million -- the 2003 figures are clear, these are official numbers, and I gave you a little pamphlet -- we got Turkey. Last year it was 28.6, which increased the world crisis in 2008, 2009, 2010, and the world went back in 2009, although Turkey continued its increase. We're going to see over 30 million numbers this year. This is a record that has never happened for Turkey. Our income -- TİK accounts have been revised in recent years -- is somewhere higher than those reflected in these official numbers. Everyone who works in tourism accepts that in these official figures, the jewelry stores, the carpeters don't go here, so Turkey gets a higher income than tourism, but we want it to get even more. When 30 million people arrive, our income will go much higher than the number that comes in. What do we do for him? To some extent, we force ourselves to work in other areas. Beyond the possibilities of being a warm climate country, we try to include our winter sports opportunities, our congressional tourism opportunities, our crossbow tourism opportunities, our archeology opportunities, history, food, traditional arts opportunities, as well as the presentation of tourism. I'm talking about the entire existence of Turkey -- the entire historical and total quality of life of Turkey -- we're trying to maintain the entire cultural presence indiscriminately. We really live in an area that has become the cradle of civilizations on Earth. I gave the cradles to Noah, the swings, the hammocks. The mother of Eve was born yesterday. Do you know me? The poet says. Do you know that there is no land like this in the world, there is no land so vast, so rich, so deep, and we have no right to discriminate between the riches of this land? So we try not to fade a single flower, a single color in Anatolia, no matter what period, no civilization, no culture, no ethnic origin, no faith. That's a new perspective. We have sub-minus mortgages here. We published a book last year with one of the most common native languages of Anatolia. There's a huge file in my Ministry that says that the book can't be started. We come across obstacles. So let's try to understand each other here. I don't want to go back to the argument we just had, let's not try to judge one of us by what one of us said. Turkey came from the straits. Turkey arrived from May 27th, March 12th, September 12th, February 28th.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0309par0432	The AKP came to the dictatorship.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0308par0433	It's come from these, and how can we create a sense of civicism, a sense of brotherly, peaceful, mutually loving, caring for each other on the basis of voluntary citizenship, respecting each other, respecting each other's rights, wealth, depth, faith, philosophy, and leaving all of these substructures aside?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0310par0434	No, no, Mr. Secretary, I don't...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0308par0435	It's one of the areas where culture works. That's what we're trying to do. That's why we make no distinction in the land of Anatolia.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0310par0436	There's a lot of discrimination, Mr. Secretary, a lot of discrimination.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0308par0437	Is it a pagan temple, a Christian work, or a Jewish work? From Seljuk, from Ottoman, from a monument of Islam? Now that they're all in this land, we're all looking at it with our understanding. But there's a prejudice about that. So I'd like to give you a few small examples. Usually, of course, we do important archaeological studies.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0311par0438	Do you envy Byzantine civilization?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0308par0439	In the 2003s, we are digging up about 120 Turkish digs and digging more than 40 foreign digs. Turkey is one of the largest excavation countries in the world. Of course, when you dig it up, Hitit comes out, Likya goes out, Lydia comes out, Rome goes out...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0312par0441	Human corpses are also coming out, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0308par0442	Sir?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0312par0443	There are human corpses coming out of the ground, Mr. Secretary, that too.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0308par0444	If you want, try to understand what I'm saying, okay? So don't make it polemic.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0312par0445	It's not polemic, it's real, Minister. In Bitlis, there are human corpses coming out of the ground.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0308par0446	And don't force me to answer any questions. We had a very civilized conversation over there. Let's work on the area we talked about. Everyone knows my sensitivity in those areas. Let's not try to lead each other to unnecessary answers. It's mostly ancient artifacts. ▪ Do you always work for this? My friends, our own culture, our own culture, our own culture, the current culture of Anatolia, or Seljuklu, Ottoman, Islamic culture. I just want to remind you that the shrines in Ayasophia were closed for more than 50 years. We've come up with that in the last few years. About 70 years ago, a concrete entry into the entrance was incompatible with aesthetics, incompatible with history, a concrete, incompatible with the tissue there; we removed it, and it turned out to be a date, a wealth, and a depth. We have made Nevşehir Haci Bektas Ashland bright, just as we have worked in Mandan, just as we have worked in Haci Bayram. We don't. We do not put Hajji Bayram and Haji Bektas, and Mazlana and Yunus (Jonah) face to face. We consider all of this to be the wealth of Asia Minor, and we work. Galata Mevlevihaneni, Edirne Turkish Museum of Islamic Arts, Erzurum Turkish Museum of Islamic Arts, Yakutiye Medreseni, Bitlis-Ahlat Selçuklu Cemetery, Edirne Selimiye Mosque.... Edirne Selimiye entered the Mosque UNESCO World Heritage List. In June 2011, Edirne Selimije Mosque entered the World Heritage List as a Turkish Islamic monument. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] When we took over the World Heritage List at the end of 2007, we had 18 works, we now have 26 works from Turkey, 9 new sites. This includes Eşrefoglu Mosque in Beyşehir, which includes the Rome Marble Workshop in Aphrodisiasias, but all of which were recently recorded as the works of Turkey on the World Heritage List. We're trying to take care of the Divric Great Mosque, the Konya Beyşehir Eşrefoğlu Mosque, Edirne Hidırlı Tabyas... with real concern about what's going to happen in Hasankeyf, to keep the work that I've always put in my heart under water, to protect it as carefully as possible, to move it into the future, and to take care of it. We are working on the Edirne Clumsy Tablets, and Erzurum Tabs, and countless places in the Topkapi Palace, and numerous places in the Star Palace. We are studying the Istanbul Akıt Library, we are studying the Library of Big Ragıp Pasha, we are studying Çanakkale, Gallibolu, Namadah, Mecidiye, and Ertuğl Tabiahs, We are finishing Ağrı İshak Pasha Palace, but now we are studying Ahmadi Hani Turbé. Now, we're working on a new area. We're working on Safranbolu, Göynuk, Kulay, Zile, Van Ercish Çelebbagek Seljulı Cemetery, Ayasofya Turbés -- which I said -- Istanbul Nuruosmania Turbesi, Sultan Reşat Turbesi, Alanya Castle, and now we're working on the list of the Surite of the World. My dear friends, these are what a ministry, a ministry of culture and tourism, should naturally do, but there are new, new areas that we've put on the agenda of Turkey for the first time in this period. Look, we had a very important treasure. We weren't very aware of it until now, the writing. It was distributed in various libraries of Turkey. Last semester, you'll remember, we passed a new law in 2010. We set up a centre in Istanbul, and we collect all the writing in Turkey in 15 libraries, and we build two rehabilitation centres for these. We've created new units that will collect writing from around the world, and this is the first time this year we've put funds into writing, and this is the first time we've brought this organization up in Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] More important than that, there was a law in 2007 on the establishment of the Yunus Emre institutes. You see, I always say, there was the Cervantes Institute in Turkey, there was Goethe, there was British Culture, there was American Culture, there was French Culture. Since when? Ever since everyone in this House knew who they were. But we had citizens in Europe for 50 years, and there was no Turkish cultural centre in Europe. To teach Turkish culture, to teach its language, to explain the developments in Turkey there, and to those who wanted to learn both Turkey and Turkey there. Now, right now, last month, I opened the Bucharest and Constanta Dolphin Emre Cultural Centers, 18th. We've opened 18 Yunus Emre Cultural Centers in the world, in European soil, in African soil, in Asian soil, and by the end of 2012, we'll hopefully raise that number to twenty-five, including Paris, including Berlin. There will be at least 25 Dolphin Emre Cultural Centers in the world by the end of this year. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] It's easy to open a theater. I mean, it hasn't been opened, but our friend just told me, and some of my friends are a little touchy for some reason. The State Theatres were established in 1948, but the State Theatres had not crossed the Anatolian coast in İstanbul in fifty years; let them go, and let them go, and let them go, and let them go, and let them go, and let them go. Since 2003, we have added 35 on the number of state theaters that we have received by 25 ▪. We've now added 33, we're trying to open Manisa, Kayseri and the Army by the end of the year, 35 more in ten years. Look, 25 in 50 years. The number of scenes opened by our friends, who said they cared more about the arts and culture, was 25. We are opening 35 new state theater scenes in ten years. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We're trying to spread culture, art, history, peace, brotherhood, fine arts all over Asia Minor, trying to make sure that all parts of Anatolia benefit from these services.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0313par0460	Inshallah, inshallah. Peace come, brotherhood come.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0308par0461	In 2012, I'm trying to finish the Hakkari Highova Cultural Center, if God wills it, we will. My dear friends, in Turkey we need peace and need to listen and understand each other. Believe me, there's nothing we can't accomplish if there's peace in the dorm and peace in the world, but it's essential. Our basic condition is peace in the dorm and peace in the world. I pledge to you that the southeast of Turkey, in the peace environment of the east, without any further investments, will only rise to urban tourism, only cultural tourism potential, indeed. In Diyarbakir, Hatay, Gaziantep We opened one of the world's largest mosaic museums in Gaziantep. Now we're trying to make a similar one in Urbana, and now we're trying to make a similar one in Hatay. I've already told the Diyarbakır walls -- I've told you this -- we're trying to make Diyarbakir Inkale, Diyarbakır, the biggest archaeological museum in the region, even though I went to read files with a little trembling feet during September 12th, but I'm a lawyer there, and I feel like I'm a lawyer. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear friends, for the first time in the late 1880s, a book has been translated from Turkish to English, and in the centuries or so, I think we have 200 or so books translated into English, I think, 225. In 2005, the Project to Extrovert Turkish Literature began. So far, we've supported nearly 1,000 books, and about 700 books have now been translated into nearly 40 languages in the world. We're trying to get our literature out. We don't discriminate when we open our literature, we don't make distinctions against Akif. We don't try to put up with Nazim, and Necip Fazil, and Fikret, and Akif.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0314par0465	They should be facing each other. They wouldn't have developed if they weren't facing each other.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0308par0466	In the past period, they may have come up with opposing ideas in the conjunctual of that day, in the world conditions of that day, but when you look at each other in a deep place, they all wish for the good of the country and perhaps for it to go further.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0314par0467	If they weren't against it, they wouldn't be that big.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0308par0468	Now we're trying to make peace. Now we're trying to create a peace with all this wealth of history. We're trying to explain to the world how Turkey is rich in literature, history, culture, origin. Currently, in nearly forty countries, there are nearly 1,000 projects that we support as Ministry -- my valued friends -- published books. We've developed something new, a new subject, a field. Our libraries weren't thematic, except for a few of our limited samples. Now we're developing a concept of a literature museum library. This is a study we've been doing since last year. We opened a literary museum library in Ankara on the anniversary of Mehmet Akif Ersoy's Istiklal March. Then, under the name Emrah of Erzurum... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...now we open in Erzurum. I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0315par0473	Here you go, Mr. Secretary, please wrap it up.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0308par0474	In Adana, Karacaoglan, İstanbul, Ahmet Hamdi Tanpınar, Diyarbakır...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0316par0475	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Salim is waiting.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0315par0476	Yes, sir, yes. Minister, your time is up. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0317par0478	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0315par0480	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ali Longırmak, as opposed to you, please come in.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0318par0482	Mr. President, I want all the total salise added to me, even the unspoken, the salises.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0315par0483	I don't understand...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0318par0484	I want all the unspoken salises added.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0315par0485	Let's add it. Here you go. Here you go, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0318par0486	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've been promised the Ministry of Youth and Sports budget, and I salute you with my deepest respect. At the very beginning of my speech, I would like to say that with his power and opposition, this country is ours and all of us are responsible. Therefore, I would like to express immediately that my friends who are not in the mind that I criticize are exceptional to these criticisms. Our Minister of Youth and Sports is on the stand. I, of course, am the first person to know that sports is a very important facility, but before a sports facility, sports logic, sports culture, sports consciousness and sports philosophy are important. My dear friends, if we don't build it, those facilities will turn into a rat's nest. If we don't develop sports consciousness, sports culture, and look at it as a vision, a mission, and a projection, those facilities are meaningless. Of course, our friends, who are AKP's core, began with a philosophical depth on the charge of mujahideenism, then became contractors, and then, one step later, they go to be available for anything in Turkey. So this opportunity is a little overthinking. I think Mr. Minister of Youth and Sports is here the next time he talks about all the facilities he's running to be Minister of Public Works or something.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0319par0489	Shouldn't we do it?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0318par0490	There was no mention of sports culture, sports philosophy, and, of course, there was a lot of trouble here. (EC PARTY RINGS) Dear lawmakers, you don't have to use words, so if you try to understand a little bit of what I'm saying, you'll do a smarter job. Dear lawmakers, the basis of sports is gymnastics, the mother of sports, all branches. So I'd like to point out to the Minister that gymnastics must also begin at a certain age. When you look at the infrastructure of athletes who are successful in all the majors today, you see that very young people who work in gymnastics are more successful. So, as human resources, we need to make sure that our children are guided by more lessons and more accurate programs -- first through a kindergarten education -- with national education -- as human resources. Later, in communication with our schools and schools, our clubs are occupied within the organization. When we look at sports, there are people who do amateur sports and professional sports, and when we look at games, there are team games and individual sports. If we see all of this as an area for amateurs, for professionals, for contestants, for summit sports, it would be healthy to organize our facilities and capabilities. Here, with this investment, with this investment, with this investment, there's no right institutionalization, Mr. Secretary. The correct installation is that climate, culture, traditions have a physical and genetic effect on the environmental person. Imagine that when you add the vascular structure of people living in high altitude areas and the vascular structures of people living at sea level with the sports that they can do, the vascular structures, the muscle structures, and especially the folklore, the culture, some of the things in them, these people need to be taken out of Turkey's geography so that they can be more organized in sports, and in this geography, they need to be prioritized to the facilities of those sports branches. In fact, a step further ahead of that, in contact with national education -- such as Erzurum, for example, we have long runners in Ağrırum, our marathoners -- to send our teachers in those branches as the national education teacher, our Youth Sports Ministry assigns experts to those provinces, and in the sense that if we get a vision for the sport, then we can get more vision of Turkish sports in the world -- economically, directly, and indirectly, into the fifth-largest sector -- in terms of greater competition and more powerful competition in the world. So, not in a contractor's mentality, but in this kind of sport logic and culture, I wish to organize Turkish sports within consciousness, which is why I say the budget is inadequate. I give you all my regards, and I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0320par0496	Thank you, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0321par0497	Mr. President, in his speech, you are now available for anything. He used his statement. I want this statement to explain his intentions.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0318par0498	Mr. President, here's the thing: No, I don't have that kind of manners... This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I'm not just a congressman who recites it by heart. I didn't say that in a moral sense.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0321par0499	Then please state that you used a statement that exceeded your purpose.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0318par0500	Anything is available, which means any means necessary to stay in power. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0322par0502	He's on the books, sir, both sides of the board. Thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0323par0504	What do you mean? His apology is bigger than his fault.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0324par0505	Sir, promise Mahir Bey because of the bullying.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit04spe0322par0506	Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute recess, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0322par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume our ninth round of talks with the Central Management Budget Law for 2012 and the Central Management Act for 2010. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. We're going to question-answer. The first word is Mr. Oz. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0325par0008	Thank you, Mr. President. My first question will be to our Minister of Youth and Sports. How much money are earmarked for our major sports, athletics, gymnastics, and swimming in 2012? My second question is: We know that our eight-year-old Ezgi Green, an eight-year-old boy, who is the first and 45th member of the artistic gymnastics department of Mersin, is invited to the National Team, but although he is a coach at Youth Sports County Directorate, he can't work without gym equipment. Can you solve this problem? Another question is, can it be moved to a large area from Tarsus to Silifke, instead of being in our town of Yenişehir, where the sports fields are concentrated for the Mediterranean Olympics, which are to be held in 2013? How do you feel about that? Another question for our Minister of Culture and Tourism. In the case of the pearl of the Mediterranean province of Mersin, what tourist investments were made during your ministry? Do you see the acure nuclear power plant as an obstacle to tourism?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0326par0014	Thank you. Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, our Istanbul MP.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0327par0016	Mr. Minister, Sports Minister, professional clubs in Turkey are governed by the Association Act. Two or three people run the club, but all managers vouch for joint debts. That's why if you cut the taxes and insurance debt from the clubs when they're being paid, you don't owe the government a debt, plus the executives don't face a seizure. Two: Are you going to make another arrangement for clubs instead of the Associations Act? Three: Mr. Secretary, you've taken 15 quadrillion dollars, you've given 1.1 quadrillion. You say. You're collecting 15 quadrillion dollars, over the clubs, beating the crap out of the clubs. Will you increase the share of the clubs from 7 per cent to 15 per cent? Bring it up to 15 percent, let the clubs be free. Four...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0328par0022	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Mr. Vural, our Ýzmir MP.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0329par0024	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister of Culture and Tourism. In fact, Mr. Secretary, I think Salim Beslim had a reputation. You left the bench immediately after I mentioned his name. My question is: Last year, on December 28, 2010, I issued a statement on the construction of a museum where Mehmet Akif Ersoy died, and you have an initial attempt at publicisation. 2011 -- the year of Mehmet Akif Ersoy -- hopefully we will conclude this initiative and hold a museum as a tribute to his memory. Today, in one newspaper, you ask if the Mehmet Aqif museum is not this year, when is it? And you are investigating which apartment your Ministry still resides in. You haven't found it for a year, but what you said a year ago, we started a process of publicisation. So, are you going to be able to make it this year? Another one of my questions is the brochure that you distribute, and the funds that were transferred to the provinces in 2009 are from 74.9 to 209.6. I wonder why this happened. All of a sudden, he's making a picnic. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can you fill me in on that?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0330par0031	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Dibek, our 40-year-old congressman...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0331par0033	Thank you, Mr. President. My first question is to Mr. Kılıç, Minister of Youth and Sports. Mr. Secretary, you've made a very quick statement on the stand about investments, sports investments, stadiums. My science, my constituency, is that you may have jumped out of your depth during that period. How much is there for sports investments reserved for the centipede next year? That goes for the dorm too. You said Babaeski, though, are there dorm projects in our other counties? I also have a question for our Minister of Culture. I've given you two questions, Mr. Secretary, and you haven't responded to either of them. One of them is the third in the Topkapi Museum. It was the process after the removal of Selim. I found out from the press that Mr. Yusuf Bey was sent away again, but you didn't answer. There was a question I was asking. Two female personnel who carried out that order were also punished and were assigned elsewhere, or have been investigated. What happened to them? What happened to Mr. Joseph?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0332par0039	Mr. Demir, the muğla MP.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0333par0040	Thank you. Minister, foreigners from abroad are buying houses and housing on the coasts of the Aegean, the Mediterranean, like Fethiye, Didim. I'm close to the people they bring from their own country, who are really tourists, my friend. They say, "I'm a friend." Do you plan to take precautions against the growing number of foreign boutique houses and false relatives? My second question is, when are you going to bring in our cultural assets, especially the realistic protection policies of our sites? When are you going to ban the detectors? Third, in tourist destinations like the Dead Sea, what policies do you have to prevent the pollution of charter yacht groups? Number four, when are you going to save the Stratonicia dig site in Beden? Five, when will the tears of Harran go away?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0334par0047	Mr. Topcu, our Ankara MP.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0335par0048	Thank you, Mr. President. My first question is to the Minister of Youth and Sports. Are there any criteria for buildings in the provinces that you buy as dorms? Who's it from? Question two: is there an athletic talent model; how do you run it? My third question: How are sports skills evaluated in elementary schools? This question is given to our Minister of Culture: According to a study conducted in Turkey, according to the study of reading habits, the book is placed in the first place between basic needs and the annual spending of 45 cents per person is given as a thousand to one. What project do you plan to catch Turkey, which targeted the first 10 in 2023? The last question is: Do you intend to build the house of Lord Ali Riza, the father of Ataturk? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0336par0057	Kütahya MP Mr. Illum.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0337par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. My first questions are for the Minister of Culture and Tourism. What are the reasons for reducing the number of libraries during your Ministry of the Yörük and Turkmen culture? What funds are earmarked to the foundations and associations of your ministry? My second question: will your Ministry work on restoring the historic Kütahya homes and the restoration of Kütahya Castle and cultural tourism? Mr. Minister of Youth and Sports: Can you arrange for lawmakers to have specific quotas based on the electoral areas of state housing owned by the Credit House? Otherwise, this has become a topic in the House that will cause a fight. Two: Can repayment of student loans be made available after students have a job? Another question is, can the Kütahya Province, the Citadel District, be built in 2012? Kütahya, when will the rabbit stadiums be built?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0338par0067	Elazig MP Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0339par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. My first question is to our Minister of Youth and Sports: Mr. Minister, you have counted the provinces to build the stadium. You also counted the provinces of Malatya, Diyarbakır, Sivas. Why did you forget the hand again? You've upset the hands. When are you going to build the stadium? Can you give me a date? My other questions are for our Minister of Culture and Tourism. My first question is: there have been significant historical artifacts in excavations carried out for five years by the president of the Harput Inkale Museum. Will you authorize the Museum President to continue these excavations? My second question: Will the restoration of the southern walls of Harput Castle begin this year? My third question is, will you set up a protection committee for Elazig? And thank you for setting up the relay manager.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0340par0075	Eskişehir MP Kurt.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0341par0076	Mr. President, I'd like to ask the Minister of Youth and Sports: Who has the authority to use accretion on journalists entering the press bleachers in stadiums and gyms? Despite court decisions, the Association of Turkish Football Federation and Sports Writers still uses authority according to what law and regulations? What is the reason that the demands of the Anadolu Sports Journalists Association are not taken into account by your Ministry? Will Mr. Culture Ministera be removed from the Smyrna National Library Compiling Act? It's a question the Izmirans are very curious about. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0342par0079	Thank you. Tekirdağ MP Mr. Belen.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0343par0081	I ask: When will you tender the restoration of the historical Mosque in Çorı district of Tekirdağ Province? Furthermore, the cultural centre in Chorus has not been completed since 93. When do you aim to finish? Will you set aside funds for the foundry of the Conqueror in Demirköy district and get them out of the ground as soon as possible? Do you plan to schedule the restoration of the historic Clock Tower in Edirne Province? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0344par0086	Thank you. Now, Mr. Ministers will respond. Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0345par0089	Mr. President, thank you. The questions of Mr. Self: We haven't yet determined how much resources we're going to transfer to athletics and gymnastics majors in 2012, the figures for the federations will be determined after 1 January 2012, and I can also share those numbers with you when necessary. Couldn't the facilities in Mersin, which would be held as part of the Australian Games, have spread to a large geography from Tarsus to Silifke? The question is: In fact, after I went to Mersin four times, I met many of them there. We'd like that, too, but the votes are designed in an Olympic sense. Therefore, the distance between the Olympic village and the halls where the games will be held is mandatory, both in a limited area of miles, so geographically the centre of Mersin was requested by the Mediterranean Games Committee, and we acted on that request. Mr. Aslanoglu has questions, I won't be able to answer them all, but I'll put them in total. Sports Toto Super Leagues 319 trillion, Bank Asia 1. 196 trillion for league clubs, Sports Toto 2. 203 trillion for league clubs, Sports Toto 3. A total of 175 trillion to the league clubs, 123 trillion to amateur sports clubs, our Ministry of Sports Toto, from the sources of the Agency's President to Turkish football, is 1 quadrillion 17 trillion Turkish dollars in old money. After expressing that, what investments did Mr. Dibek take place for the Irishman? Let me make it clear to you right away. A youth centre in 40lareli, a stadium modernisation in Babaeski, a football field in Lüleburgaz, synthetic grass surface in Babaeski, construction of a synthetic football field in Pehlivanköy, the closing of the swimming pool in Kırklareli Keşan. We will do this in the new investment programme just now. Besides, I'd like to give you a statistic. As of 2003, a total of loans and dorms capacity in our 40lari province was 464, while as of today, the total number increased to 1.758, including Lüleburgaz and Babaeski's homes will be 2.458. So a 500 per cent increase will be involved in the 40lari province. The question of Mr. Gunner is: is there a criteria for buildings rented in the country? Yes, there are fundamental criteria, but we have set a new criteria to eliminate all these criteria. As I've just reminded you, we plan to build modern dorms, which are directly in the room standard of 1-3, in the bathroom and in the bathroom, by either tendering our own projects to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism or to the Public Housing Administration. Other than that, if anyone in the private sector wants to rent us a dorm building, we'll give them the housing projects of the Loans and Homes Association. And after we build it, we'll do long-term rentals from them. Is there a record? (The record is definitely out of the question for us.) After construction of buildings in search of conditions and desirable areas, we can easily rent these buildings. The question of Mr. Işk is: Kütahya Hezarcık was built in 2010, with the contributions of our General Directorate, by special administration. Most of the source was transferred by the Youth and Sports General Directorate to the Kütahya County Special Administration. The issue of the fortary synthetic grass-based football field is that I just mentioned it, and we're going to do hundreds of them. Hopefully, we'll find that opportunity in the Citadel.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0346par0099	The games have been postponed there, and football can't be played right now.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0345par0100	I've expressed that we're going to do the proper work on him. The question of Mr. Virtue is: when will the stadium be built? (Asian League of Elazig Bank is a team that, as far as I know, continues to lead. If there's a certain conviction at the point of the town's need, the need of the bleachers, the need of the club, of course, we won't be able to use the country's resources at this point. The question of Mr. Kurt is about the introduction of journalists to the stadiums. I'd like to answer the question of our esteemed congressman as follows: There are some problems going on, and we are aware of that. We've instructed the Director General to coordinate with all relevant units. The immediate solution to this problem is one of our goals. Thank you. Let me put it this way: there's an arrangement here that we've made. I'd like to read this right away from the text, from the legislation: the student pays the loan to the institution in the same amount of time and monthly periods, as long as the student receives a loan four years after the end of his normal education period. So, for the license...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0347par0105	When he's unemployed, let him pay after he gets a job.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0348par0107	Thank you very much, Minister, your time is up. Mr. Günay...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0349par0109	Mr. President, Mr. Self has a question. What tourism investments in Mersin... we have 12 allocations with a capacity of 7,600 beds, and infrastructure is under way, and it's actually being worked on the land right now. Other than that, we have street health care in Tarsus, and we're trying to finish the Transporter Cultural Center this year. Mr. Vural said there's been a serious increase from 2009 to 2010. We got 90 million additional grants that year. Because we've received 90 million additional grants, the figure has doubled roughly.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0350par0111	It's not about the election, is it?
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0349par0112	No, there was no election in 2010, in 2011.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0350par0113	It says 2009-2010...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0349par0114	In 2010, we received 90 million additional grants, budgets, and we turned it into investments, just like that. About the Aqif house, you're right, there's been a delay, because there's been a problem identifying the house, which has become shares, has gone abroad, has been discovered. We know the building, but we don't know what apartment he's in. We've worked with the Ministry of Health, the City, all the relevant institutions, and many of our friends who have written books on Aqif, and now we've identified the apartment, and there's work going on about its publicisation, but we've done another procedure because there's been a delay in the Egyptian Building. In Ankara, as I have just said, we have opened a library of literature museums under the name Mehmet Akif Ersoy, and on December 27th, we have a very special study that I will present to the public on the day of Mehmet Akif Ersoy's death. We've done a lot of work on the Aqif, but our transactions with the Egyptian Apartments have not reached this year. Because of the restoration of a structure in Topkapi, his question about the moving of the throne to another structure in the same courtyard or the moving of that couch is: Our manager there returned to his own office due to management issues, and the other friends are continuing to work in their seats now. Mr. Iron, it's not just about our Ministry of Foreign Housing. The Finance Ministry is also a subject that other ministries are interested in, and I know very well that there is a problem that we really have to deal with in Turkey, because some of them are foreign, they buy houses from Turkey, and they keep using their house as a tax-free, informal boarding house. This is against Turkish tourism. That's one of the things that we've been looking at and we've been following closely. I've been following Stratonikeia and Harran very closely. Stratonicia is one of the few places where both our town and the town of Seljuklu are found on the same floor as a hemisphere, and there's a very efficient study going on there, and it's still being done. The road issue is quite simple, and with the deadline to visit Stratoniceia, we will address the road problem. About Harran... this year at Harran, we put both the environmental arrangement and the restoration of the Great Mosque on our schedule. Harran is a very special place for our culture, and although we haven't been able to raise serious resources for Urbana in the past few years, unfortunately, Harran, a little neglected by local governments, I traveled with my friends this year, we discovered the work to be done, and we're going to change the administration there, and we're going to try to make Harran into something that won't be disturbed by the ugly landscape we see when we travel there next summer. One of our friends is about the house belonging to the father of Ataturk, who's in Biggie, who's working with the TİKA, who's in the tender stage, who's been located, who's been located, and we have a consensus with the government of Macedonia, and we're working to build the Leaded Han in Skopje, the Yunus Em Cultural Center, which I think is going to start to restore the house in Big Daddy this year, but outside of us, I think it's going to be an area where TİKA Education is working. As for the book, Turkey is not as bad as we know it in the past years, it's getting a lot of ISBN numbers, it's getting a lot of bandroll, it's getting a lot of book broadcasts, but of course, when we hit the scale of the world, we still have a distance to cross. I don't think the publishing convention has been in session for 11 years, so we've gathered the publishing convention this year, and every five years we've been trying to regroup and keep a close eye on the matter, as predicted at the beginning. He mentioned a magazine, our friend, that we usually get magazines into the 81 county library so that we can access every county library and get every non-discriminate political opinion, every neighborhood, every think tank. We're trying to keep literature a little more common if it has something to do with archeology, art. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There will be great work on the Kütahya.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0351par0125	Thank you, Minister. Your time's up, the others...
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0352par0127	Mr. President, please excuse me, with all due respect, I think all the MPs are wondering. Reports of a series of withdrawals were made where the relics were. You said you'd investigate. It is not possible for us to accept the use of relics as a place for such shows. I'd appreciate it if you'd give me a heads-up on this. Who let you do that? How could he let you? Please, we'd appreciate it if you would inform our House on this, with the President's leniency.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0353par0129	Mr. President, is that statue in Kars been destroyed because it's a freak? That's what I want to know.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0354par0130	I've had people ask that before. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0353par0131	Also, Mr. Suat killed a citizen on the way this year, in a car accident, his car was hit. I want to know the fate of that citizen.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0354par0132	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0355par0133	Mr. President, the Topkapi Palace is all and the relics are an area of special importance to me. When such an application took place, our friends, relevant units, we, in recent years, have been interested in smuggling historical artifacts, and you know that 95 years later, we received one of our work from Germany, one of our work from America, 40 years after Germany. It's a limited shot, and with the fact that there's a line in that shot about the smuggling of historical artifacts, and the job is a little bit more -- because our shows have a lot of opportunity to travel around the world -- they've given permission and opportunity. I feel personally that even under these circumstances, it is not right to use the relics as such a place of attraction. So, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to investigate this matter, and I'm going to take the necessary precaution not to repeat it, by warning my friends properly.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0356par0134	Please.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0355par0135	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-13sit05spe0357par0136	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the question-answer process is complete. Now, in the ninth round, I'm going to make you read the chapters and parts of the budgets separately and vote on them. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Youth and Sports will take part in the central management budget in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 29 TEENAGE AND SPOR ACTIVITY 1. ▪ Ministry of Youth and Sports 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 4.404.029.300 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.105,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 63,984.700 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 4,469,119.000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Youth and Sports was adopted in 2012 as part of the central management budget. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Sports General Directorate will take part in the central management budget in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 40.14 (SPOR GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 1. ▪ Sports General Directorate 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 26.913.900 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 102,600 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 495,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 1,436.100 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 702.393.400 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 731.341.000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Sports General Directorate was adopted in 2012 as part of the central management budget. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1.375,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 708,341.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 21.625,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 731.341.000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Sports General Directorate was adopted in 2012 as part of the central management budget. I'd like to submit to your votes that the National Board of Youth and Sports Office of 2010 will take part in the final account of its central management account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ Youth and Sports General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2010 I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance : 1,048,694.374,16 - Budget Expenses: 1,033,336,238,72 - Canceled allowance: 15,358,135,44 Those who accept the CECAN (A) ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Budget revenue estimate: 480,480,000.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 1,005,232.234,13 Those who accept the CECAN (B) ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Department of Youth and Sports was adopted in 2010 as part of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Board of Higher Education Loans and Homes, the General Directorate, shall take part in the central management budget in 2012: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 40.13.... the king of my higher education and the chief of law. 1. ▪ Director-General of Higher Education Loans and Homes Office 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 42,640,250 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 450.200 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 03 Public Order and Security Services 45,840.000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 09 Education Services 4.360.947.550 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained TOPLAM 4,449,878,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Department of Higher Education Loans and Homes Office has been adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 300,000,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 3,674,878,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 166,000,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Collection 309,000,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 4,449,878,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Department of Higher Education Loans and Homes Office has been adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Office General of the Office of Higher Education Loans and Homes in 2010 be transferred to the section of the final account of central management: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ا Higher Education Credit and Housing Institution General Directorate 2010 Central Management Terms I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 3.048,661,026.00 - Budget Expenses 3.009,926,741,44 - Canceled allowance: 38,734,284,56 Those who accept the CECAN (A) ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] - Budget Emancipation Coin: 2.71,851.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 2,865,221,334,16 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Department of Higher Education Loans and Homes has been adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2010. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism, I submit to your votes for the transfer of the central management budget in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 21.......................................................................................................................... 1. ▪ Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 379,244.100 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 1.103,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 9.800,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 535,113,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 55,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 779,760.900 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 1,705,076,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism adopted parts of the central management budget in 2012. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism in 2010, I would like to submit to your votes that the final account of central management should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance : 1,550,253,974,10 - Budget Expenses: 1,327.194.558,41 -Request Expenses 168,735,74 - Canceled allowance: 223,228,151,43 Next Year's Payment: 189,438,457,78 Those who accept the CECAN (A) ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism was adopted in 2010 as part of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the State Opera and Ballet General Directorate take part in the central management budget of 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 40.16 (DEVLET OPERA AND BALL OF GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 1. ▪ State Opera and Ballet Directorial Budget for Central Management in 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 19.035,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 988,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 698,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 157,461,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 178.182,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The General Directorate of State Opera and Ballet was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.867,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 173,932,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 383,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 178.182,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit to your votes that the State Opera and Ballet General Directorate for Central Management in 2010 will take part in the final account: Those who don't... Sustained. I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 157,744,740,00 - Budget Expenses: 156,472.325.00 - Canceled allowance : 1.272.415.00 Those who accept the CECAN (A) ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] - Budget revenue forecast: 139,985,000.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 147,393,554,75 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The State Opera and Ballet General Directorate of 2010 has been adopted into parts of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the General Directorate of State Theatres, the central management budget of 2012, will be transferred to its sections: Those who don't... Sustained. 40.15.............................................................................................................................. 1. ▪ General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 19720.000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.140,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 125,854,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 147,714,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The General Directorate of State Theatres was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 7.570.000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 140,079,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 65,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 147,714,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The General Directorate of State Theatres in 2010, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 132.307.344.96 - Budget Expenses: 126,857,409,34 - Canceled allowance: 5,449,935,62 Those who accept the CECAN (A) ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] - Budget revenue forecast: 115.595,000.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 130.103.284.29 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The General Directorate of State Theatres was adopted in 2010 as part of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the President of Turkey's Writers' Association shall be transferred to the central management budget in 2012: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 40.53,............ the..................................................................................................................................................................................... 1. ▪ Central Management Budget for 2012 President of Turkey's Writing Arts Agency [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 3.463.300 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 03 Public Order and Security Services 907,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 20,833,700 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained TOPLAM 25.204,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the Turkish Writers' Association was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 19,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 25,181000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 4,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 25.204,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Thus, the budgets of central management of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Sports General Directorate and Turkey's Writers' Association were adopted by the General Directorate of Higher Education Credit and Homes in 2012, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, State Opera and Ballet General Directorate, the Central Management budgets of the State Theatres in 2012 and the final accounts of the central management budgets of 2010 and the central management of Youth and Sports Directorate in 2010. We wish them well. Lawmakers, according to the programme, 11 p.m. on Wednesday (December 14th 2011) to discuss the budgets and accounts of the organisations in order. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
