tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 37th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the Central Management Budget Bill of 2012 and the Central Management Computation Bill of 2010. Under the schedule, we'll have two rounds of interviews today. The tenth round includes transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry, Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Highways General Directorate, Information Technologies and Communication Agency, Undersecretary of Maritime Affairs, Civil Aviation General Directorate, Ministry of Labour and Social Security, Office of Occupational Property, Turkey and Middle East Amme Administration Institute, State Staff President's budgets. (x) 87 and 88 S. The Numbered Basmazes and Funding Cetves are added to the 31st Consistency Charter, dated 08/12/2011. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. Members of parliament must write the passwords to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour until the end of the talks, and then press the promise-seeking button on the screen after presenting their fingerprints. It's for your information. Congressmans, I'm reading the names of the members of the 10th round on behalf of groups and individuals: On behalf of the AK PARTI Group: Sebahattin Karakelle, Erzincan MP; Mustafa Atash, İstanbul MP; Ali Ercoshkun, Bolu MP; Ahmet Arslan, Kars MP; Mihrimah Belma Kent, İstanbul MP; Salim Beşı, Corrum MP; Metin Ashınk, İstanbul MP; Mehmet Şukru Erdinç, Adana MP. All the speeches for the AK PARTY group have been five minutes. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group: Durmiş Ali Torlak, İstanbul MP, 15 minutes; Ali Halaman, Adana MP, ten minutes; Mustafa Kalaycı, Konya MP, fifteen minutes. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group: Ahmet İhsan Kalkavan, Samsun MP, Kemal Ekcici, Bursa MP, seven minutes; Erdal Aksunger, İzmir MP, six minutes; Süleyman Çelebi, İstanbul MP, ten minutes and Musa Çam, İzmir MP, ten minutes. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group: Demir Çelik, Mud MP, 20 minutes; İdris Baluken, Bingley MP, 20 minutes. In the name of his subjects: Yaşar Karayel in Poland, five minutes; against Mesut Dedeoğlu in Kahramanmarash MP in five minutes. Congressmans, on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, Sebahattin Karakelle, Erzincan MP. Here you go, Mr. Karakelle.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0002par0052	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications in 2012. I salute your high council. The successes of the Ministry, which I'm going to talk about here today, are showing a picture of developing, growing, developing Turkey. You can appreciate that in every area of transportation and communication, aviation, sailing, railways, land roads, in the IT industry, we've had a period of epics written, memorizations broken, and we'll continue to live, hopefully. Our sense of duty in transportation, as in all matters, is to serve the land entrusted to us, from Edirne to Hakkari, Hatay to Rize, because we represent an understanding that counts 74 million brothers and sisters in this geography, which we serve the development of our country. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are entitled to a whole new chapter in transport and telecommunications with the AK PARTI Authority, a sense of service. It's history, service is a citizen's right. It is incumbent upon us to meet the citizen in the ministry. His understanding has come. The road was divided into 6,101 kilometers prior to 2003, and the six provinces were linked together, while today the road divided by 21,227 km and 74 provinces were interconnected. Where is 6 provinces, 74 provinces? From where to where! In the 41 billion, five years spent on the road that we've divided 15,200 kilometers, it has returned as a saving of time and fuel. This should be the best answer to the question, "Where does the water come from?" Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, our songs are our life stories. Behold, what our folk song says: I have sent thee forth, that thou shouldst not be weary. We have come to power, that our people may not wear thee out. Praise be to God, in nine years, we have a Prime Minister who has opened his way in every part of this country, and we have a Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications, who makes the night day, who makes the stars pitch. The railway industry, which was fast asleep from the 1950s to the 2000s, woke up with the AK PARTY power, and the investments increased from 2003 to now 7.5 times. Our ministry, which has been working to connect all parts of our country with the high-speed train, added Ankara-Eskişehir, Ankara-Konya high-speed railway lines to the Ankara-Yozgat-Sivas-Erzincan-Erzurum-Kars High Speed Train Project, which was put into investment programme this year. The historic Silk Road with the completion of Turkey-Georgia railway construction will be restored to business with Azerbaijan and the Turkish republics. Again, the Marmaray Project will become a dream, a dream, a dream, by connecting Asia-European continents under the sea. Turkey, which is a white flag country with shipbuilding industry, marinas, fishing shelters, finally remembered that it was a sea country. For years, air travel, perceived as unique to a certain level of income, has embraced our entire nation with arrangements, and the airway has become the public's path. For the first time in our time in power, 15 million of our citizens have been on a plane. Turkey's internet highways have been embroidered in the communications and IT sector. Remember, you don't go to the goal of the information society, you go to the FATIH Project, you go to our schools with the technology classes, you go to the government. Mr. President, you'll appreciate what we've seen on this stand from time to time. We never tried to raise our voices on this stand, but we always tried to raise our words. We believe that it is not the thunder that extends the lilies, but the rain. In Jonah's language, we say: "Come, let us meet. Let us make it easy. Although our means are different, aren't our purposes serving this country, our nation? Instead of protesting projects that are just for the sake of opposition, come, be supportive, do the job easily. Look, Confucius says in one of his words: either find a way, or make way, or get out of the way. We don't tell you to get out of the way. But come together. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let's make way, let's make way. Let's all give a round of applause for the achievements and the accomplishments. I congratulate the Minister and his team once again on the good news of the 2012 budget.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0003par0065	Thank you, Mr. Karakelle. Mustafa Atash is the second speaker on behalf of the AK PARTI Group, İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Paperman.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0004par0069	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the National Management Budget Bill of 2012, the Transport Ministry, the General Directorate of Highways. I salute you all. The main factors that determine the level of development and development of a country are the indicators of transportation and access. A transport policy has been developed and implemented during the AK PARTY administrations by planning priorities and importance that take into account all the layers of society and the needs of all the regions of our country. Our primary goal is the peace and happiness of our society. As investments were made, the principle of opportunity and service equality was observed from east to west, north to south. THE journeys from east to west, from north to south, before the AK PARTI rulings, today, thankfully, have achieved a happy, peaceful and secure structure, thanks to the roads that have been made. Studies are still going on in many places. The largest road of the Republic era has been launched. The roads have been divided and lives saved, ending the turmoil in the sector, and recording land transport. Unfinished roads, unfinished tunnels have lived through our reign of power. Black Sea Highway, endless ordeal. The Bolu Tunnel, 12 governments, 16 ministers of the old tunnel, thankfully, was served during the AK PARTY rule period. The road is civilization, development, life. The road is the way the breakup ends. The roads that have been made have been life-threatening, contributing to our nation's economy. The double roads, 2,000 miles [6,000 km] before the AK PARTI rule, have reached 21,000 kilometers in addition to the 15,000 km [21,000 km], with only 6 provinces connected to the divided road network before 2003, and are now linked to 74 counties. In fact, all of our MPs, who are actually under the roof of the Grand Assembly, enjoy and enjoy the service of the highways in our daily lives, on our travels throughout Turkey. The socioeconomic benefits of divided roads are no doubt very important. By increasing traffic security, deaths and injuries in accidents have been reduced to minimal levels. When compared with European Union countries, the number of deaths dropped by 100 million vehicles per kilometre and three deaths in European Union countries dropped from 5.72 in our country to 4.41 put it down to 4.41. in 2009 and 3.79 in 2010. The economy's competitiveness has been boosted by saving on vehicle operating costs and travel time. More than 1 million litres of fuel have been saved, as a result of increasing business performance in divided ways, and more than one million liters of fuel have been saved, as well as labor force during travel time. Their total contribution to our economy is around 9.5 billion Turkish liras. Regional imbalances have been eliminated. By 2023, the total highway network will reach 7,827 kilometers, the divided road will reach 36,500 kilometers. Our projects continue. The Istanbul-Izmir highway has been tendered for the Gulf crossing and has begun its work. Another tube will be in service for the rubbered passage in Istanbul. We will activate intelligent transport systems and submit all transportation information to the access of citizens electronically. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you'll appreciate that in five minutes, it's impossible to explain the services the highway has done. I thank the staff of the AK PARTI rulings, who have taken a safe march towards Turkey's future, and especially the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications staff, and the Highways staff, and I thank them for their successful work. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0005par0078	Thank you, Mr. Paperman. The third speaker for the AK PARTY Group is Ali Ercoshkun, Bolu MP. Here you go, Mr. Ercoshkun.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0006par0082	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs regarding the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications, Information Technologies and Communications. I hereby salute your high council and our beloved nation. Dear friends, the Telecommunications Agency, founded in 2000, was subjected to a new arrangement in 2008, and its name was changed to ▪ Information Technologies and Communication Corporation. In recent years, the dizzying speed of information and communication technologies has produced risks and threats to freedoms such as communication and the preservation of privacy, as well as its benefits. The Information Technologies and Communications Agency also performs its activities in this framework, considering the work conducted by the International Telecommunications Union and the European Union, which represents our country. We've taken special interest in this subject since the moment we came to work alone, knowing that science, technology and communication work are the basis of a competitive, sustainable economy. We know that a strong Turkey will rise on the basis of knowledge, science, technology. One of the things that we need most as a country is the meeting of knowledge and life, so it needs to be very strategic. The EC PARTY government followed a policy in the field of information technologies, which was sustainable, human-oriented, taking into account the needs of all parts of society, planning priorities and importance. In this way, Turkey achieved and even passed the level of several European Union countries before entering the European Union. While these investments and plans were being made, the principle of opportunity and service equality from east to west, north to south was aimed at a innovative, inclusive and transformative computing infrastructure. Turkey's IT infrastructure has been completely upgraded and IT highways have been launched. In the classrooms of all our schools, the Project for Increased Opportunities, Development of Technology (FATH) has begun to be implemented. The transition from alphabet reader to computer readership has begun, e-government applications have been implemented. Electronic services are conducted at the e-state gate in 292. With more than 10 million users, we have left many European countries behind. Dear lawmakers, communication is very important for emergencies. We suffered a great deal in the 1999 earthquake. As a member of the Bolu Congress, I'm one of the people who feels that pain. Because of the collapse of the communication system, immediately after the earthquake, people were unable to meet with their lives, wives, children, and parents. Don't let anyone live those days again. At this point today, we did not experience this tribulation in Bolu, Düzce, and Kopeli. When the Van earthquake occurred with the stand-by backup communication infrastructure created by dividing Turkey into 25 regions, there was no interruption in communication, and the system continued to work despite all lines being installed. From here, once again, I cherish the brothers we lost in the earthquake. Dear friends, when I visited the CeBIT fair in Hannover, Germany for the first time as a brother in the IT sector in 1995, I was really surprised to see the technological differences, and I had a long time to think about how the difference between our country and the European countries could be turned off. In those years, it wasn't really easy to participate in these fairs, even as visitors. The size of the IT sector in Turkey was not even the size of an international IT firm. But at the point where we're here today, the IT sector, which was $11.5 billion in 2003, is expected to grow to $31 billion by the end of 2011. Turkish-sat satellites are at 91%. Turksat 4A satellite will be launched into space in November 2013, while Turksat 4B will be launched in February 2014. 5A domestic satellite construction has been launched. While Turkey was the only Turkish company at the world's largest IT fair in 1995, Turkey was the common country of the fair, and Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, as he opened the fair with Mr. Merkel in front of the world, it is important to congratulate him on the appreciation and surprise of the world's IT sector if the information he gave about the Turkish IT infrastructure in his speech. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, congratulations to the EC PARTY government, which has revealed such a great change and transformation. I thank all the employees of the communications and IT sector for their support for their big Turkey bid, and I thank all the people and institutions who have worked on the budget's preparation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0007par0092	Thank you, Mr. Ercoshkun. His fourth speech on behalf of the AK PARTY Group is Ahmet Arlen, Kars MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0008par0096	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I, the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications, am here to make an assessment of the Civil Aviation General Directorate's budget for 2012. My respects to all of you. One of the most important factors in the development of tourism, industry and trade in the world is the transport sector, no doubt, to ensure intercontinental integration and integration. The aviation industry, where people travel quickly, easily, securely and safely, is a key part of the transport sector. We all live to see our country's civilian aviation industry come to an exemplary place in the world. The Civil Aeronautics General Directorate, an important institution in terms of the regulatory unit, which continues its duties to establish rules, audit and sanction in the aviation sector, has been restructured on November 10, 2005, and has become a public and private and budgeted entity. In particular, we reached the figures the civil aviation sector envisioned for private sectors, for liberalisation, regional aviation policies, international civil aviation authorities for our country in 2015, even in 2020. In order to ensure the highest level of implementation of international standards under the needs and expectations of the developing civilian aviation sector, legislation has been carried out in many areas, audits have been given great importance, and over 5,000 audits have been conducted in just one year. In that sense, the international Civil Aviation Agency (ICAO) and the European Civil Aviation Conference (ECAC), which is an important part of the world's civil aviation authority, were successfully released from all inspections. And again, our country is in many civil aviation authorities in the world, with many titles, such as presidents, vice presidents, board members. As a result of all this, flights from 26 points to 47 points in our country have increased by 81 per cent. It's flying from 60 points to 174 points abroad, that's a 190 percent increase. The number of planes has risen from 110 to 347, which is an increase of over 300 per cent. And again, the number of international air transport agreements has increased from 81 to 121, which is a 49 percent increase. In nine years, 15 million of our people met for the first time on a plane. With the global economic crisis, the world's civil aviation has become so narrowed down, let alone narrow down in our country, further developments have continued. Our Prime Minister is the basic infrastructure of transportation, energy and communication development, and the road is civilization, they call it. Mr. Minister of Transport, if the target is clear, the path is clear. They call it. Thus, they stress that transportation and access indicators are at the beginning of the main factors that determine the level of development and development of a country. Of course, there is an expression of the Great Leader Ataturk: seeing the horizon alone is not enough, it is necessary to see and know beyond the horizon. What's that supposed to mean? It aims to increase the number of planes to 750, increase the number of passengers to 350 million per year, and it also envisions a 100 million passenger-access airport in our country, 60 million passenger-accessible, 30 million passenger-accessible airports. The Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications, the regulatory unit, with the General Directorate of Civil Aviation and the operating agency, with the State Air Squares, with the DLH General Directorate of infrastructure, is planning this entire sector, depending on its leadership country in the world, the world's leader is planning, doing, doing, and we are proud of it. I wish our budget to be a blessing, and I pay my respects to all who work hard. I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0009par0106	Thank you, Mr. lion. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the fifth speaker is Mihrimah Belma Kın, İstanbul MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Row.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0010par0110	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Office of Labour and Social Security budget talks in 2012. On behalf of myself and the Justice and Development Party Group, I salute you with my best wishes. The Ministry of Labour and Social Security has been working intensively to improve working life in our country, improve quality, create a sustainable social security system, increase employment and reduce non-responsibility. The most effective policy to reduce unemployment and increase employment is primarily to provide a sustainable economic growth rate, but also to put employment-oriented growth on the basis of economic policy. As a result of the recent economic crisis in the world, jobs have been lost in all countries, unemployment has increased. Increased employment and reduction of unemployment are a subject our power is sensitive to, as is the case in the whole world. Thanks to the structural reforms we've achieved through political and economic stability, we have shown considerable resistance to the crisis as a country with solid macroeconomic foundations. Because of the measures we have taken, employment opportunities have increased steadily, and unemployment has declined to 9.1 per cent as of July 2011, and growth rates have been the second fastest growing country to break a record in the last quarter. A sustainable system, based on different norms and statuss for the creation of a sustainable social security system, has been established that all our citizens will benefit fairly and equally from social security reform, which collects the BUG-KUR and Retirement Chest under one roof. You can appreciate the long-term consequences of social security decisions and policy enforcement. However, the positive results of our reform were immediately seen and significant increases in social security institutions' revenues. The European Union and ILO norms are based on the principle that language, race, gender, political thinking, religion, sects and so on in the Business Law. In compliance with European Union legislation, the rights of employees have been guaranteed, and the flexible working models, such as partial work, call, make-up work, short work, have been legalised. Four labour packages, the first one in 2008, were enforced by law. So, with policies that were put into place and time very quickly, during the global crisis, we are among the most successful countries in the field of employment. Mr. President, good lawmakers, as you know, education and employment are very important. Our ministry has devised and implemented a new action plan to strengthen the educational-instruction relationship. On the one hand, job seekers, job seekers, unemployed people with a particular profession, workforce training programmes are being implemented as part of the active labour force programmes, community benefit programs, entrepreneurial and occupational training programmes, in order to support employers who can't find employment or employment on the other side. In the same way, special studies for young people, women and disabled employment were conducted in early 2011. In our time, special measures to increase the employment of women and young people have been taken, and the burdens on employment have been reduced. In particular, the operation on Supporting Women's Employment has been launched to improve women's employmentability, to reduce obstacles that prevent them from joining the labour force. The 131 project, conducted, aims are to give ionisation training for 4,000 women, education for 1,200 women, child and elderly care training, a guaranteed employment course for 12,000 women, career counseling and guidance services for 18,000 women. Congressmans, the other issue our ministry is on is business and vocational advice. We also report that we will be followers of this joint work with İSKUR. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish that the Ministry of Labor and Social Security's budget be well budgeted, thanks to those who have done the work, my friends from the Plan and Budget Commission, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0011par0123	Thank you, Mr. Row. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the sixth speaker is Salim Nice, Corrum MP. Here you go, Mr. Nice Guy. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [CHP MPs left the General Assembly Hall. Applause from the AK PARTY!]
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0012par0128	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, I stand before you to announce my views on the budget of the Association of Professional Qualification. As you know, the Occupational Qualification Foundation is one of the institutions in Turkey that will perform important jobs both in its first institutions and in the European Union integration process, under Law 5444, which was adopted by the Supreme Assembly in 2006. The institution of vocational competence has basic goals and tasks such as to establish the basics of the system, to prepare the standards, to establish the test and documentation system, to cooperate with the Ministry of National Education and the NGO to be taught according to standards, to ensure that professional skills are documented, and to ensure international recognition -- especially in the Member States of the European Union. The Employment Agency also has an exemplary place in industrial relations and social policy institutions and legislation in its structure, its functioning. Because the board, the general board, and the sector committees are highly involved, and it has a very democratic structure, which is also the head of our model institutions. Social parties can actively participate in all processes. And it is also a very important institution in terms of training with labour markets, education and employment, the creation of education and teaching programmes according to national professional standards, the development and documentation of labour markets and thus facilitating access to qualified labourforce, the assessment of competencies, validity, credibility and transparency, and international comparable infrastructure. The development of vocational qualifications will also be an important step in facilitating the free movement in Europe, which is widely discussed. In addition, important arrangements and gains will be carried out by the Employment, efficiency, international competitiveness, life-long learning, ease access to qualified labor, and by providing the labour force with work space and job descriptions. Today, as you know, an important part of working life - 50% - thinks they are undereducated to transfer from school to work. In addition to the degree, the vocational competence institution will make an important contribution to having a certificate of professional competence, acquitting educational institutions, providing the quality of minimum education in vocational educational institutions. Other than that, right now, the Occupational Qualification Agency is performing successful activities. For example, in 18 sectors with the signed co-operation protocol, he signed and implemented vocational Standard Prep Co-operation protocols that cover the standard of 658 professions in 38 different companies. The draft also prepared 518 draft professional standards from various sectors in terms of professional standards. In addition, 206 of the national professional standards were successful in publishing in the Official Gazette. In 20 sectors, it began to operate by establishing sector committees. He also signed the National Qualification Protocol on 175 competencies with 17 different companies in 11 sectors and adopted 45 national competencies. The work for 78 draft competencies is currently under way at various stages. Important steps have been taken on the examination and documentation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and they also have relations with international organisations, the European Education Foundation, the European Centre for Professional Education Development. I wish you all the best in the 2012 budget of the Employment Agency, and I salute you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0013par0138	Thank you, Mr. Nice. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the seventh speaker is Metin Ashünk, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Ash.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0014par0142	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with the most heartfelt of feelings, my respects and my love. I wish that our 2012 budget, which will serve their 2023 goals, will be a blessing for our country, for our nation and for humanity. Dear lawmakers, geography on our planet is one of the most fundamental elements of determining the fate of nations and states. It has always defined the role of being great, to be ambitious, to be great to nations and states that live on the geography of Asia Minor, and has always predicted to be a great statesman in this role. With our ability to manage information, diplomacy, and justice, we have always been the great state, and we will always be the great state in the future. Precious lawmakers have been one of the most fundamental secrets of our existence in the Balkans, Africa, Europe, the Middle East and the Caucasus, with its simple appearance in Istanbul, and the Topkapi Palace is one of the main secrets of our existence in the past -- a rare tradition of education that has brought people together with knowledge and the ability to become statesmen. Executives raised with rareness in the Ottomans have continued to exist, together with the republic's founding, through the importance that we have given to universities. Since the establishment of TODAIE (Turkey and Middle East Amme Administration), established under additional protocol under the Technical Aid Agreement with the United Nations in 1952, has continued to produce information for the development of public administration and to develop executives in line with modern management, and its budget has increased by over 500 per cent during the EC PARTI administration period, increasing its physical conditions, and continuing its ability to be a co-ordination centre based on this geography-based countries. The TODAIE, which has been acceded by the European Union of Public Management, has taken on a mission in Turkey to raise public executives, to be a co-ordinating centre between the Middle East and Turkey in the field of public administration, and to develop qualified executives and professors in close geography, and to become a rarity for the geography of the future. In this direction, the TODAIE Azerbaijan, who is acquitted to the European Centre for Public Administration and is in charge of NGO, signed agreements with Azerbaijan, China, Syria, Iran and France and are continuing with the training of public executives. The protocol process with Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan continues, Algeria and Tunisia seek co-operation. Dear lawmakers, Turkey is on its way to becoming a power centre in the global system in the future. One of our most basic needs in this march is undoubtedly Alparslan, Fatih, Yavuz, Abdulhamit, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and with the tradition of raising the great statesman, the great statesman we have made, and in the process, Turkey has once again demonstrated its ability to raise human beings in the last decade of AK PARTI power, with the vision and perspective provided by our country's Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. On this occasion, I wish our 2012 budget to be a blessing, and I salute you with greetings and respect.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0015par0150	Thank you, Mr. Ashy. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the eighth speaker is Mehmet Şükrü Erdinç, Adana MP. Here you go, Mr. Erdinç.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0016par0154	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of our State Staff President in 2012. I hereby salute the General Assembly. The State Chief of Staff is an important institution that determines the principles and policies of the public staff regime, in accordance with the developing and changing conditions of our age, providing the inter-agency implementation of the legislation that falls into the organisation of public institutions and institutions and into the mandate of the presidency. The President's office, which has taken on several tasks with various laws, is also responsible for important tasks such as the implementation of public staff selection examinations and transfers of personnel from privatised institutions to other public institutions and institutions. A total of 2m,834,760 personnel are employed within the mandate of the State Chief of Staff. Our State Chief of Staff, who establishes opinions in the legislation and practices of public institutions, such as law and regulations, and maintains unity, conducts these tasks with a total of 248 personnel, including 101 experts. In order to establish the information infrastructure needed to organize my public staff regime, the Council-Net Project was implemented in the EC PARTI Authority, where data related to public staff personnel will be kept electronically as a result of co-operation with public institutions and institutions and the State Staff Presidency, and has begun accessing data into the system electronically. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers also carry out various tasks related to the disabled personnel of the State Staff. I'd like to present to you the issues regarding the employment of a disabled officer: the number of disabled civil servants employed in public institutions and institutions under the Law of State Officers No. 657 is 20,829. As it is known earlier, the examinations and placements of the disabled are uniquely performed by the institutions, while for the first time, the AK PARTY is being conducted as central to the examinations and placement of the disabled in accordance with the principles of justice and righteousness. The new understanding of public administration is based on the principles of participation, transparency, accountability, and on the basis of citizen satisfaction. This framework has answered 17470 requests by our citizens to receive information that was launched into the State Chief of Staff in 2011. In order for our country to see the process of rapid development and development in accordance with its purpose, it is inevitable that public administration restructuring work will be carried out and the management structure will be reached by the standards of the European Union. Dear lawmakers, the infrastructure of public staff selection exams has been strengthened during our administrations. The central examinations conducted in the co-ordination of our State Staff presidency resulted in the deployment of 154,906 personnel to public institutions and institutions from 2002-2011 to the central system. In addition, 299,129 appointments were made to teachers of the Ministry of National Education at this time. The development of public personnel in line with the concept of citizen-based management, the compliance with developing conditions, the enhancement of efficiency and efficiency, the preparation for new and higher tasks, and the training of senior executives in the most modern ways is one of the priorities of the EC PARTI administration. To this end, it is intended to establish a training centre that depends on our presidency of State Staff. Developments in our country's economic, financial, technological, social and legal areas are evident in the need for reforms in the field of public personnel management. In order to address the injustices that exist among public employees, to improve efficiency, to revisit cumbersome structures, to establish a staff regime, such as providing quality service production, and to address public imbalances. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish our financial budget of 2012 to be a blessing to our country.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0017par0165	Thank you, Mr. Erdinç. Istanbul MP Durmis Ali Torlak is now calling for the People's Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Torlak.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0018par0169	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry in 2012. I hereby salute your high council. Precious lawmakers have forced the AKP government to take a little measure in 2012, due to the growing current, inflation and unemployment process, due to the 2011 general election process, where the country's resources have been misused. Therefore, for 2012, we face a budget free of a sustainable growth in the economy, with no serious funding for investment and unemployment. Hopefully, in the following budgets, more balanced budgets will be prepared, and hopefully, with this limited budget, the start-up of investment will end without a feasibility study. Dear lawmakers, in transport of passengers and cargo, economics, speed, security and comfort are essential to any form of transportation. Besides, the least pollution of the environment, the use of existing energy resources in the country, and the lack of energy it consumes per passenger/kilometer or tonometer, the first facility and care are the other factors that should be considered in preference to the types of transportation to repair ease. At the point where the transport sector, which has contributed the most to the development of international trade, is today, the imbalance between the modes of transportation in our country is attracting attention. The fact that a large portion of domestic cargo and passenger transport is being done by land today is also contrary to the principle of balancing the transport sector's main objectives and transport types. Under international rules, safe and fast transportation is the desired form of transportation. At the same time, its environmentally sensitive and economicity is at the top of what is sought in a transport system. Unresolved transportation problems in our country's delivery system today have also affected the development of industry and economy across the country. Turkey, located on international research, transport and energy corridors, needs to develop the transport system immediately. For, in 2003, TÜBITAK's 2023 Transport Vision (TÜBITAK), it was envisioned that public transport could be achieved within an hour and a half at the most in an environment with 100 per cent safety, modern technology and international law and rules, where the environment is protected at the highest level, and domestic transportation could be achieved within 30 minutes. Although this vision is not achieved today, the current climate of inter-nation competition is increasing, it should not be ignored that Turkey has to make new plans for its transport system using its geographical advantages to the best possible use. Dear lawmakers, the importance of reducing the use of roads is increasing today, as roads transport is shown among the main causes of increased air pollution, along with globalisation. The negativeities of road traffic are described as a highly problematic means of transportation in many ways, as the number of dead and wounded depending on the height of the accident rate is more expensive than the other transportation sectors. As a matter of fact, at this point in the transport area today, it is one of the main reasons why all world countries are especially burdened with railways. When we study the transport sector in developed and developing countries, we see that there is a balance between transport sectors that are not in Turkey. This sense of balance brought with it the use of safe, fast, and modern technology and the creation and implementation of new projects. That shows the difference in those countries. However, that is not the case in Turkey. Because the unsanitary basis of our country's transportation system is a single system. In our country, 22 per cent of the total energy is consumed in the transport sector. 87 per cent of this consumption belongs to the land road, 2 per cent to the railway road, 11 per cent to the airway and to the sea road. Given that our external dependency rate in oil is 90 per cent, a serious change in transport policy arises. The cost of these problems is increasing, causing heavy road transport systems, contamination, accidents and traffic jams. In addition, railway advantages cannot be used in terms of land use. To transport 60,000 passengers in one direction per hour, it takes a twelve-way highway in one direction, while a two-line railway can meet that need. Again, the technical life of the road is nine to ten years, while the railway is twenty-five to thirty years. With globalisation today, the rapid increase in the world's trade volume has made the transport sector one of the most important actors in the world economy. The rapid developments in transport technologies have led to significant improvements and changes in the transport sector. With the development of the concept of transport from door to door in the sector, the interconnection between land, air, sea and railway roads in Turkey is clear that more efficient and less expensive, faster, safer and environmentally sensitive, sustainable transport targets can only be reached by combining transport policies. This is needed at the time when passengers and freighters on every platform in the world are provided with important modes, and it is very important to do so urgently. What is important here is that the country's social status, its financial resources, its energy resources, and its properties, and its technological structure, are selected and each of them is given the necessary weight. Therefore, the development and harmonisation of transport systems in terms of Turkey's international and intergalactic harmony is crucial. Due to lack of infrastructure and lack of an encouraging government policy, the combined transport system, which cannot be implemented enough, should also be completely overcome by the advantages of the road transport system. At this point, however, it is one of the biggest obstacles to the combined transportation system, as the railway network does not have sufficient capacity except for a few specific main lines, and the vast majority of railway infrastructure is not worn out and renovated, and the new line investments are not made, and that the railway transport services remain shallow only among certain cities. Sea-road transport is one of the most liberal sectors in Turkey, with a sense of management in European standards. However, due to the liberal and competitive structure of the naval sector, despite a 20 per cent annual increase in container traffic in ports in recent years, the current infrastructure capacity of public and private ports has failed to meet the demand, with no railway connections to ports except certain ports. Therefore, in the development of ports in the coming process, the maximum balance between transport systems must be achieved by implementing more efficient strategies, especially in dense areas such as the Marmara Region industrial center, providing fast and economic services, providing integrated problems among transportation elements, not destroying the environment, by creating a modern transport infrastructure. Dear lawmakers, the rise in train accidents in recent years has led to fatal and high-cost economic losses. Despite the fact that the cause of the accident has been described as human flaws in the tablets and the accident reports, the AKP is responsible. For a long time, the administration has not taken serious measures to reduce or eliminate human flaws -- the need for both technology and quality employment -- in order to meet the increased labor force.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0019par0180	The responsible haven't done business in 50 years.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0018par0181	Likewise, when we look at international civilian aviation accident reports, the picture of Turkey in this area is very clear. The mortality rate of the European Union and US aviation companies ranges from 0.17 to 1.36 as of 1 million departures, while Turkey has about 3.50 per cent. At this rate, Turkish civilian aviation is the first in Europe in mortal accidents, the third in the world. Civil aviation must be restored to an autonomous structure. It is clear that it is important to create an independent audit board and tighten education programmes and improve working conditions. Dear lawmakers, while other marine countries have survived the global economic crisis in the world with state support, due to the insensitive policies of the Justice and Development Party government, unfortunately, our sea trade, shipbuilding industry and shipbuilding industry have not survived a major coup. Our armators have suffered a loss of wealth, work, and work due to fallen navlans. The same is true of our shipbuilding industry. In fact, the loss of labor on the ship is more important to our country than any other loss because the loss of employment is a great loss to today and a great loss to the future. Mr. Secretary knows very well how difficult it is to build a business force in the sector. On the other hand, the loss of assets and capital is a separate problem because shipbuilding is a busy industry, heavy industry, and strategically important sector. Dear lawmakers, our seas are actually a natural highway, but unfortunately we can't take advantage of these highways properly. Turkish shipping is the main sector where 95% of the country's exports and imports are made. Water meets the sea -- including islands -- concerns the length of the coast of 8,400 kilometers and all the coastal structures along this shoreline. It has a field of operating, including landwater and exclusive economic zones, and oil, natural gas, and mines, including below and above the sea. At the same time, we have a border over the landline. As a result, security and navigational security, marine safety, Bosphorus, traffic problems at sea, and interference with environmental pollution at sea. For these reasons, the representation of the naval body of a country surrounded by the seas at the general directorate level of a major ministry will certainly form a new bureaucratic hierarchy in the face of the existence of a serious sector that serves and takes place in this area. In addition, when the entire world recognizes and accepts its authority today, the Prime Minister's Office of Naval Affairs will show that Turkey has given up on the international community, including 85-90,000 families eating bread, in an environment where more than 100,000 of our people are still unemployed, who have reached the point of sinking with the 2008 global crisis, and are still unable to stand up, and with the side industry, it will be seen as giving up the international community's claim that Turkey has given up its fishing sector to a strong governance structure, or rather than to form a naval ministry. Dear lawmakers, in order to resuscitate Turkish seamanship, everyone, every institution must do its best. In this sense, I would like to thank the Deniz News Agency and Recep Canpolat Bey, who have recently assembled the world's sailors in Turkey and have led them to the distribution of the Golden Chipypa (Treat) awards. In fact, we have a very important opportunity ahead of us, dear MPs, Mr. Secretary of State knows that very well. See, as of 2012, there are 10,900 ships in the world that need to enter the special survey, and how much of that do we get out of it? The government must have a policy on this, and I would like to say that there may be great interests in Turkey. We can also assess that 52,000 ships have passed through the Turkish straits over the years, and if we can benefit ourselves from these ships, I think we'll get through this much easier. I hereby ask that the budget be a blessing, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0020par0192	Thank you. Ali Halaman, MP for the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Halaman.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0021par0196	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Transport Ministry's Highway General Directorate budget for 2012. On behalf of the National Movement Party and on behalf of myself, I salute the great Turkish nation. Established in 1/3/1950, the only major road-related organisation in our country is the General Directorate of Highways. It feeds the economic, social, cultural values of a country with an employee of 15,891; it looks like dead investment, but it's the basis of the economy, in a fundamental sense. The measurement of our country's economic, social, cultural standards can be noticed through the formation and formation of land roads. The movements of the vehicles that are on their way to land indicate that the economy is good or bad. Since the politician is responsible for the country's path, waist, hospital, school, mosque, industry in the first degree, have you made our way, school, and hospital in general? For this reason, the highways have considered it a great task to serve with valuable engineers and technical workers in the 50, 60-year working period of 30 per cent, 40 per cent of Turkey without calling it snow or winter. In 50, 60 years, political ruling parties are remembered for their important work. Between 1960 and 1970, the power of Süleyman Demirel was often referred to in Turkey as building a dam with a green card. Ecevit's power was commemorated by the act of peace. After 1980, the autonomous period of power was often referred to as the highway. The Tansu Ciller era was commemorated in the fight against terrorism. The Erbakan period was remembered for improving the rights of autonomy, and the Mesut Yilmaz government was commemorated through the access process of the European Union. The 1999 Ecevit-Bardish government was founded in 1999, and was mostly referred to as the Banks Crisis Act, direct support in agriculture, DFIF loan, agriculture improvements, health ministry improvements, and the recovery of the 1999 earthquake. Now, today's government will be remembered for selling more of what was done before it, and for injustice. In the early 1950s, political support for land-road investments became important, making it necessary to be more organized in the sector, to be organized and methodical. Our land roads transport sector has improved rapidly since the 1970s, becoming the country with the largest number of trucks and trucks in Europe today. Today, our number of trucks reaches 750 thousand, while in our country 92 per cent of domestic transportation takes place by road. Today, economic difficulties in almost every sector have increased poverty, unemployment, and one of the most affected by these negative developments has been the trucker's business. Even our foreign and domestic road transport companies are unable to deal with high entry prices and fuel prices, while individual trucking has reached its end. The mover and trucker have often had to move the tradesman into low-priced gas money in a destructive competition environment. Large increases in gas prices have not been added to the shipping price. The psychology of the trucker shop, which has struggled with income tax, motor vehicle tax, car tax, car inspection, exhaust stamps, new vehicles with various forms of tax, such as ETV, temporary tax, and failed to pay the BUG-KUR bonus, has been corrupted. The costs of warrants such as K1, C2, SCR are very high. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important indicators of development and being a great state is success in transportation. The government also maintains its understanding of their proposals during budget talks. In the first place, Mr. Prime Minister, ministers have continued their understanding of defamation, denial, abuse, emotional exploitation, including the elected MPs. During the ten-year period of government power, they continue to brag and put the Turkish nation to sleep, even though they don't deserve it on television screens, on election squares, on TV screens, where eighty-nine years of republical governments have made more double roads than they've done. I would especially like to thank all the authorities of the former republic's governments for their services in the territorial, IT and communications sectors. Because governments must not neglect to thank what was done before them. We also want to thank you for the work done during this administration. Dear lawmakers, the governments you disliked and abused at every opportunity have traveled 66,054 kilometers in the economic and technological conditions of that period, without 50 tons of trucks, without breakers, without drills, without digs, with shovels, with compressors. At the same time, while making these roads, these governments have also built buildings that we can't count -- Eregli, Alexanderun iron steel factories, PETKIM, Turkish Telekom, HES, thermal plants, Tekel, fertilizer factories, SEKA, schools, hospitals, Fatih Sultan Mehmet Bridge, Boğaziçi Bridge, highways, and facilities that we can't count. It's done by past republic governments that you don't like. In your ten-year government, you boast about the completion of roads that had been tendered and started during previous administrations, adding a lane of another 12,929 kilometers along the road, while not making any of the facilities that I counted above, but also selling what was done. On October 15, 2010, 2010, the Privatisation Administration's Supreme Council reached 2010/88. According to the verdict, highways, bridges, and facilities located on this road are privatised, so they are sold. As on all sides of Turkey, the road between Ankara and Adana is always being repaired, so do some proper work, it's a sin. The roads of Edirne-Istanbul-Ankara, Pozanti-Tarsus-Mersin, Tarsus-Adana-Gaziantep and Earthkale-Iskenderun and the bridges of Boğaziçi and Fatih Sultan Mehmet are not right to privatize. As the National Movement Party, we don't approve of this privatisation. It's not right to privatize existing highways. If you privatise existing highways, it will not reduce Turkey's main problem of unemployment, on the contrary, increase its unemployment. Our highways are important sources of income. I'm selling highways, which means I'm selling the future of Turkey. It's not right to sell our country's national income. You're selling the future of unborn children. You sold our country's assets one by one, and you keep selling them. Mr. President, esteemed MPs, new corridors to connect the Black Sea Region to the south are desperately needed. The standard of the cities in the Black Sea must be started before it is too late. Especially the distinction of the Kaiseri-Adana-Kozan-Iskender, which connects the south to the north, is Mansurlu 6. The first end of the road to the border of the region; Adana-Karatash, Ceyhan-Emurtal; Adana-Koran; Pozanti-Tarsus; Kozan-Feke, Saimbeyli-Tufanbeyli; Adana-Karaisian; Adana-Imamoğlu segregation Aladağ, and the quick completion of the unfinished roads are our wish from the government. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish the 2012 budget to be a blessing to our country and our nation, and a salutations and greetings again.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0022par0208	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mustafa Kalaycı, MP for the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0023par0212	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party regarding the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security. I salute you all. According to our constitution, the state is obliged to take the necessary measures to improve employees' lives, to protect employees in order to improve their working life, to support work and to create an economic environment suitable for preventing unemployment. As of today, however, the most important problem in our country is unemployment, poverty, unsecured employment conditions, distanced, marketed social state understanding. In the AKP period, unemployment has increased as the job force's turnout and employment rate declined. The unemployment rate, 10.3% in 2002, rose to 11.9 per cent in 2010. It is expected to be 10.5 per cent year-on-year, although 2011 has been seen to decline according to monthly data, based on the historical record-breaking unemployment rate in 2009. However, the government's growth bid for 2012 is as low as 4 per cent, and the estimates that OECD and the IMF are down to 2 per cent show that unemployment will increase significantly in our country next year. Those who have not been included in the number of unemployed but are willing to search and work have increased 100 per cent during the AKP period, and if these are included, one of every five of our working citizens appears to be unemployed. The unemployed do not even declare themselves unemployed because they have lost hope of employment. In 2002, the number of people who had no hope of finding employment increased to 76,000 people in 2010. Some 10 times higher than those who had no hope of finding employment during the AKP period. In nine years, the AKP governments have found no solution to unemployment and have confessed to its failure and incompetence. Turkish youth's unemployment does not concern the AKP mentality at all. AKP officials think so as they see people with holding bosses in their own children and environment. Dear lawmakers, the basic purpose of the social state is to provide everyone with a minimum level of life that is worthy of human dignity. The great Turkish Khan, Oğuz Khan, says in his prayer: "Let nothing prevail but justice in the Turkish country. May poverty be reduced so much in the Turkish homeland that poverty is considered a crime. This may be the most basic expression of being a social state. Unfortunately, our country has been ruled for nine years by a mindset that has broken unfair practices, condemning the Turkish nation to unemployment and poverty. The average amount of income in the population of about 20 million people, including minimum wagers and about 10 million pensioners, and those they're supposed to care for, the fact that the green card holder, up to 9.5 million, is poor. The social government is not about delivering food and coal to people it needs poverty, hunger. The AKP government has turned it into a political rant account by exploiting the social aid issue, which should be essentially very sensitive. The minimum wage and pensioners are pensioners, widows and orphans, all of whom are under the age of starvation. The AKP government has always given pensioners hope, but it has constantly deceived and disappointed pensioners. Although he promised to compensate the pensioners for their injustice, he made it even more unfair in nine years. The pensioners were told they were going to be given a bank promotion, but that promise was also in vain. In the past, there has been a commitment to adopt the law of attitude, but it has been put on the shelf on the grounds that we have not been able to get out of it, and the June 2011 general elections have been promised re-enactment, but it has been announced that it has been postponed again in the last few days, but it has been postponed to 2013. The AKP is not sincere. It is the AKP (AKP), which has increased pension age to sixty-five years, has reduced the welfare share of pensions, has envisioned the pensions of half the pensions today for services after 2008, and has passed this law. Because of this arrangement, it is clear that in the coming years there will be a gap between the pensions of former and new pensioners. Turkey has set a record for growth despite the global economic crisis. If it wasn't for China, he'd be first. Mashallah! Can't the workers and officers who live on a minimum wage, pension, low income from now on be allowed to grow up a little bit? But what the hell! The figures of the 2012 budget also do not predict any improvements in pensions, widows and orphans. AKP officials can boast about increasing their pensions. How much pension does the farmer now receive in the sixth place? 560 liras. How much pension does the tradesman receive? 731 liras! How much pension does a SEC pension take? The average is $885. Are those numbers to brag about, for God's sake? They're all below the age of starvation. What happened to Turkey getting rich, $10,000 a head? Instead of always giving it to hot money dealers, loan sharks, accountants, give it to the employee, pensioner, shopkeeper, farmer before they grow up. Don't be so stingy. Dear MPs, the level of poverty in wages continues. With today's minimum wage, it is not possible for employees to meet their mandatory needs, even at a minimum. The minimum wage, which is already low, is also cut like taxes and bonuses. Thus, the minimum wage has been inadequate, inconsistencies and inconsistencies from the moment it was detected. The minimum wage must be enough to give employees a life that is worthy of the honor of humanity. The net minimum wage paid to the worker must be above the hunger limit. The taxload of the taxpayers must also be reduced. We present the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Articles of the IRS Act, which we have prepared as the National Movement Party, to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey today. This Law Proposal aims to ensure that no income tax is taken from minimum wage, as much as the minimum salary of all employees, and the tax burden of the taxpayers is reduced. We look forward to your support for the immediate legalisation of this Law Offer. Hundreds of thousands of workers across Turkey are employed by subcontractors, without job guarantees, under heavy labour conditions, violating rights, without union, with minimum wage. It's an unacceptable situation, when it's supposed to be given proper work, which is worthy of human dignity, which should be essential, but is overworked by the logic of profit by staying away from our beliefs and universal norms, but is not paid for, which is a form of subcontractorship that resembles a system of slavery. There are 426 thousand workers in the community and 420,000 subcontractors in the private sector, such as subcontractorism slavery; that is unacceptable. I say this as Minister of Labor, Mr. Secretary. Good morning! That's what the Minister of the AKP said when he entered his tenth year! Then are you the master of those slaves, Minister of the AKP government, who put the concept of "Taccar politician" on the agenda of Turkey. The AKP has revered the medieval mentality, applied subcontractorship as the basis of its policy, and has managed to provide political moisture. All workers employed by subcontractors are employed by AKP politicians, otherwise the firm's tender is cancelled. In this exploitation scheme created by those who turned unemployment into an opportunity, the subcontractor is also forced to vote for the AKP (AKP) with the threat of layoffs, making it a member of AKP's political rallies. A subcontractor is our brother ▪ Address the general population, not the rich. Some people take their heads, work half-days, some people work 12 hours a day, some people spend 650 lira a month. I call upon the heads of the state to put an end to this injustice. The plague of all these people is very, very heavy, he says. Yes, AKP mentality, how will you deal with it? Dear lawmakers, another working group in the public who are subjected to the treatment of stepchildren is also 4/C. As part of Article 4/C of Law No. 657, the appointment is incompatible with right, law and mercy.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0024par0233	They used to kick him out, we hired him.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0023par0234	We've assigned the AKP government to 4/C staffs while they're in the middle. The explanation is greed, because it's the AKP government that's left it in the middle. In addition, AKP's understanding of slave labor is also manifesting here. They mean that we hire the people, we give them the money we want, we do what we want, we do what we want. That's understanding. It was said to be casted ahead of the election, but the 4/C were not recruited. People of 4/C are being victimized, unable to receive financial and social rights taken by their peers who are doing the same job. The contract, which has not been received from other contractors, is even received from the 4/C. There's only one thing to say: don't take away the oppressed.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0024par0236	You took it, and it came out, and we saw it in the trunk.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0023par0237	Dear lawmakers, there is no limit to AKP's unjust practices, which are incompatible with equality. On the eve of the 2007 and 2011 elections, the political rant account passed laws on the recruitment of temporary workers and contracts. The Law, dated April 4, 2007, gave about 220,000 temporary workers a staff, but in 2006, many temps and seasonal workers were not able to cover it. The workers who have been waiting for this staff for twenty-five years have failed to benefit, their only crime is that they did not work for six months in 2006. For many years, seasonal workers, especially in sugar factories, have not been recruited. The victim of this Law is not a worker who works for six months a year, there is no such thing in any country, nor will consciences accept it, which Bill of Rights did you fit into? When it comes to it, we love people because of the Creator. The Creator created men equal, but you do not act equally. Be just, and remember, it is the name of the Holy Spirit. Again, a week before the June 12th elections, it has been prescribed that officers be appointed to the officers in contract positions under the Law No. 632 and Article 4/B of Law No. 657 and under Law 4924. The AKP's government has heeded our calls on contracted personnel, who have been deprived of even the most basic human rights in years, separated from their families, sentenced to an unsecured future, even with pre-election vote anxiety. However, there were nearly 200,000 contracting positions, while 4/C employees, including municipalities, private administrations and universities, were not recruited, along with 4/B/B contractors in many public institutions and employees, who were among the most victimised of public employees. The AKP government has again succeeded in sacrificing what they know best with this KHK, discrimination, injustice, and victimization. If it's not right to apply contract personnel, then why didn't you put all contract personnel on staff and discriminate? Precious MPs, the AKP's period of unionism has weakened, its unionisation rate has dropped. Privatisation, subcontractorization, flexible employment, narrow, banning and unionisation are difficult, as well as policies that weaken unionisation, while employers in the private sector prevent workers from unionizing with illegal practices, and the government condones it every year, allowing union organisation in Turkey to melt every year. According to the latest data from OECD (OECD) unionisation, Turkey's situation is pathetic. Turkey ranked last among the OECD countries with a 5.9 per cent unionisation rate. According to OECD data, the unionisation rate, which was 10 per cent in 2001, declined to 5.9 in 2009. Unions are the veins of democracy. The loss of blood of unionism is a weakness for our democracy. I wish the budgets were a blessing, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0025par0244	Thank you, Mr. Kalayci. The first speaker on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group is Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan, Samsun MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Kalkavan.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0026par0248	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party regarding the budget of the Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry in 2012. On behalf of my group and myself, I salute you all. First of all, I would like to point out that we all know the problems with collecting tax revenues. On this occasion, in the eyes of the General Directorate of Civil Aviation, the National Aeronautics Security Council, whose name is the "Millilill", has made decisions based on emancipated excuses, and we regret the transfer of this amount to the private sector, especially the TAV firm, which operates private airports, as they enter the state vaults of airport taxes taken from all kinds of passengers at airports. With about 35m euros a year, the revenue could be produced today by pilots and technicians, consisting of nearly 600 foreign pilots working on Turkish Airlines and other private airlines. Our request from the Minister is that with a new decision, these private sector servants end their betrayal of the state budget. Members of parliament, the European Union's progress report last year states that railway transport in Turkey is the only transport subsidiary without progress. The road of iron is not just an accelerated railway. The government must give up that understanding. He must produce projects that bring value, serve transportation, and also comfort road traffic, and implement them. For example, a portion of the Poti and Batum ports, where the first standing government of Georgia co-operates with the government, combined with the Poti-Batum-Trabzon-Samsun railway, can be transferred to our ports between Hopa and Samsun, where about 5 million tons of weight a year are groped. Dear MPs, the government, the government, are constantly talking about the double roads he's made. Yeah, well, we don't ignore these initiatives either, but they've sold out all the profits the republic has made in 80 years at a cost, so let them make their way this far. Make them double roads, make them do it, but discipline their contracts and contractors a little bit, don't let them spill asphalt in the rain. We all know how much road costs take out of the Ministry budget, but let me just say we all know what it's cost to repair the roads that have been broken down before the year is over, but the Ministry hasn't figured out yet that the contractors' car parks don't come up in any way. Dear lawmakers, political intervention is more effective in road construction projects than traffic density. It's not right. In this case, accidents are not prevented, just head-on collisions are prevented. For example, in Samsun, where I represent Samsun, the Black Sea coast road is being designed as a continuation, while in Samsun, no one understands that Samsun is being made a viaduct on the existing pathway that divides Samsun in two, and Samsun is being made all kinds of ugly. Madam Secretary, some of your party's Samsun MPs, the mayors of your party and the people of Samsun do not want this path. In Samsun, we ask the AKP authorities why they are so stubborn. They're telling us that you want it, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary, and you've finally made the tender. I ask you, do you live in Samsun, or do the Samsunites live? Do you know Samsunn well, or do the Samsunites know it well? Mr. Minister, please stop being so stubborn about this viaduct that will desecrate Samsun in any way. Do a survey in Samsun, if necessary. If you listen to the words of Samsunite, you will be thanked by the sons and merchants of the city of Ataturk. Since I believe you will understand Samsun, I thank you here and now. For the sons of Ataturk have been displeased with you because of the shipyard, which is said to have been built for nearly ten years, with the promises of 15 to 20 thousand workers. Dear MPs, I'd like to mention to you, as well as to the Ministry of Maritime, where I've been in the sector: you've taken a huge step towards the establishment of the Maritime Ministry, which has been fighting for years in our three-sided sea country, but is never a marine country. I'd like to thank you and the people who made up your cabinet. I'm saying you've taken my name, and I'm saying this on purpose, because this is not the Ministry profile of the Sea Chamber of Commerce, which I was assigned to before I came to the roof of Congress, and this is not what the Republican People's Party group, which I represent on this stand, wants. This formation is merely a changed name for the former Undersecretary of Maritime. We, along with the Undersecretary of Marine Tourism, ask the Ministry of Tourism of the Office of Marine Tourism, the Department of Water Products, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Health of the Office of the Coastal Office, and an independent-strong Maritime Ministry of Maritime. You've stepped up, I believe, and the establishment of a powerful Maritime Ministry will be a blessing to the Republican People's Party. Then we'll consider sailing as a strategic sector, and we'll take this sector to the top with encouragement and support. Despite all these difficulties, from the past to the present...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0027par0259	Thank you, Mr. Kalkavan.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0026par0260	...I thank all those who serve as Turkish sailors. I wish the ministry's budget to be well-funded, thank you to all the employees in person. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0027par0263	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the second speaker is Kemal Ekinci Bursa MP. Here you are, Mr. Sower.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0028par0266	Mr. President, I've been promised in the Department of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications section of the 2012 budget on Highways, and I salute the House. From the day it was founded, the highways are a distinguished organization that has provided the right services in the field, contributing to road transport, transportation. That's not the only thing about highways. He chose all of his executives from within his own staff, based on his own equipped, trained staff, on merit. Unfortunately, in recent years, without merit being based on -- I'm just saying what's coming to our ears, because there's an organization that has a right to me in this regard -- I find it sad to be held on one side by a little bit of cult, community, and advocacy. Dear friends, the ruling party of these divided ways speaks with praise every time. I agree with the recent part of this. He has indeed achieved a great success. But when these divided roads first began, remember the Prime Minister's statement, what he said, Prime Minister: "We will make these roads with the ejected machines of investors. When I first came across them, divided roadworks began between Ulus and Aksaray. Each one of those old, old machines was malfunctioning, waiting by the side of the road, just removing the nebate layer. These divided roads have no standard on land travel, no geometric nor physical standards. They've done it twice most of the time. In fact, the road opened at 10:00 p.m. earlier this afternoon was closed to traffic at 4:00 p.m. We've seen these. The expert who knew that, our friends and executives on the road, they offered to raise the standard, and they turned it into this. Now, lately, I've been happy to see that the highways are no longer divided -- let's not call them divided roads -- they've started making double roads, mechanical stabilization, hot mixtures, standard roads with asphalt. But there are some errors in some issues, such as: From time to time, the standard of roads is falling, avoiding the cost of publicisation. It's not a coincidence that the road you're on, the road you're watching, suddenly comes down from three lanes to two lanes. And in the lands of the lands, they couldn't bring themselves to rest. I've been seeing him lately, and both the hulls and the admissible walls are doing fine, and they're even staked out in landslide areas. It's a pleasant situation. Dear friends, it's up to the highways to raise the standard on divided roads. If the acting minister clears their path on this, I believe the highways will make better, more modern, more modern ways, I believe. Now I want to talk about this Black Sea highway. First, I have to say good-bye to whoever started it or did it. It's the only thing that could have been done in that geography. Oh, aren't there issues that can be discussed? I do. What is it? Some of his friends were sentenced to severe punishment because of a 700 per cent price increase, and when they had a 2700 per cent increase in their time, they didn't make a sound. I remember that there was a lot of criticism during Kemal Kilicdaroglu's General Directorate over the high price hikes. That's what happens in investors. Action may not be a project from time to time, it may be a sudden beginning, no one knows what's under the ground, it happens, but it's not right to speculate. I'll say it again: to those who started the Black Sea highway, to those who worked, to those who worked, to all of them. Dear friends, it's more important to care than to build roads. He can't do it with road workers for road maintenance, he has to do it using technology to train his own qualified employee. The other thing is about these quarryes. I'm also telling Mr. General Manager, and I'm telling Mr. Secretary-General that the quarry is like a hair-cracking head, and it's a duty to make sure that they fit in with the environment, and that the highways are environmentally sensitive to the environment. Friends, let them read this 2007-2011 Strategy Plan, this Strategy Plan, which their own staff has prepared. I'm going to finish this by reading this: the lack of wages of staff working for officer status, the absence of merits and careers at times in appointment and promotions, the oldness of art class staff, the lack of salary among civil servants, the fact that some politicians are active in their demands outside the investment programme, the lack of personnel motivation, the lack of social activity and facilities, the shortcomings of RD studies. Here is the greatness of this organization, the grace of this organization, an organization that criticizes itself. Mr. Secretary, if he wants to keep his name alive, he's out of politics, not into the highways, he develops the technique, his name lives all the time. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0029par0279	Thank you, Mr. Sower. The third speaker on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group is Erdal Aksunger İzmir MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0030par0283	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the CHP Group regarding the budget of the Transport Ministry Information Technologies and Communications Agency in 2012. I salute your high council. Now, when it comes to information, I've been in the business for 20 years. They say they don't remember when I asked our experienced congressman friends about a period of serious tension during this legislative year. Here's the thing: Every orator who comes here, especially from the ruling party, we've come here with 50 percent, and people have assigned us one way or another. The right of speech is ours. He says so. Everyone respects that you get 50 percent, but remember that the remaining 50 percent are also in opposition. Now, we all know that information technology is about facilitating human life, but let's examine it now whether it makes human life easier or easier. What is it about living well? What I perceive from good life is that people work eight hours, ten hours, twelve hours a day in their daily lives, taking home their bread, providing them with maintenance and substitutions. If the position they want to live well, when they move a little bit more material resources up, there's a crowd that defines it as a good education, a good future for their homes, their sons, their children, their daughters, their daughters. Now, the thing about information technology is that we need to see if we're making people's lives easier using information technologies. Today, Turkey may have made some breakthroughs in information technologies as the world's 16th largest economy, but I'm going to give you a few examples that it's not going too far. But I don't want to do my speech by getting stuck in these numbers, so I want to get to the point. Now, if you're using information technologies as a purpose for people to live well, you're going to get into a serious error. Information technology is actually a tool in people's good lives. I live better than a person who works for 10 hours. If he works five hours to say, and has the same means, he lives well. Is there such a thing in the presence? No. So there's been a mistake here. Congressmans, my dear friends, serious institutions have been established in Turkey. In 1999, the government of that period, during the coalition government, established institutions for e-government projects, many allocations were made. Later, in 2003, the names of these institutions were changed, and the institutions of these changed names held many meetings until 2007. I don't want to say all of these institutions here and now, but after 2007-2008, we need to take a look at the meetings of those institutions, the institutions on information technology. Until then, if I have an institution to give an example, one of them is the E State Executive Board of Turkey, which has been convened 27 times, from 2009 until 2007 to today, only once and only once. Now, what does that tell us? It shows our vision of this, it shows Turkey's vision. Now, I want to complete this vision with a few examples for you. There are some reports published every year in the World Economic Forum. In these reports, here are the indexes of being ready for the information society. These reports say for Turkey: With Sweden, Singapore, Finland, the United States, Taiwan, Denmark, Canada and South Korea at the beginning of the ranking, Turkey is moving further and further down in the last five years. Today, Turkey, which is 52nd among 122 countries in 2006, is ranked 71st among 138 countries. Yes, that's right, we are the 16th largest economy, but we are 71st in this regard. And there's one thing that I think is much more important to add: we went forward on technology, that's right, we went very seriously on listening, we almost built all of our technologies on listening. We listen to everyone in the country. How do you do these listening? I want to tell you about them briefly. You can listen to 70 million people very easily after all the data in the country is digitized, but that person doesn't listen, it's like: you listen to everyone on cell phones or all the data that's sent out. If you add an A.I. program to it, with the words, if you write down what words are spoken to, it filters out those people once as data. Once you've filtered this data, you can take whatever you want in them and bring them to listen. The strange thing is that a constitutional declaration is being made right now, and issues based on the safety of people are being tried to secure with the Constitution. But first, when people are resting, after they've rested, the indictments are being prepared, and then they go after him and try to get permission from the judge, saying, "Can we listen to this man?" Okay, well, you're all listening to Turkey with digital records like this. Keep in mind that all the software you use today, all the hardware, all the software, all the devices are in the hands of international companies abroad. Do you know where these data are gathering? So, these data are being recorded by some countries that exist, and the security of the country has been eliminated. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Guys, there's a lot to say. I thank you all.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0031par0295	Thank you, Mr. Aksinger. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the fourth speaker is Süleyman Çelebi, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0032par0299	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, my dear friends, an economy is not grown by taking rabbits out of a hat, making growth literature, just as they don't have a taste for it. It's very important that this growing deception, which has been frequently highlighted since the election period, has been revealed to be a growth for whom, and the owners of this deception know very well that there is no growth reflected in the public and the work. Yes, there's a growth, but that's growth in subcontractorization, growth in poverty, growing in lawlessness, growing in injustice. Unfortunately, the 2012 budget contains the spirit of the previous budgets, which is the policy that further crushes the people who have been crushed under the name of strict financial policies. The number of rich people who were 9 before the AKP government increased to 39, during the nine years of AKP's rule. According to OECD reports, our country, which has the 16th largest economy, runs to the top with Chile and Mexico, among 34 OECD countries. According to the OECD report, the countries with the highest income inequality between the rich and the poor are listed as Mexico, Turkey and Chile. Turkey is first in unemployment and poverty, according to the report. According to the latest BBC study, the world talks, the most common problem in Turkey has been corruption, unemployment, poverty. Here are the lies of growing up! In the snow, the money's in the cheap spot. Those who are stingy with the public are racing to make the rich richer. In this country, where minimum wage is below the age of hunger, where workers, pensioners, poor people's rights have been seized, how does this increase in wealth? Who will pay for this injustice? Who will account for the earthquake taxes of the Gasbedlen Unemployment Fund, which will be sacrificed to new lives because it has not been used properly? The AKP says, "Some people's money is a prayer." But now the only prayer they will receive from the people will be a curse. Let them know that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The government made that point with Law 4857. He's prepared legal covers for the flexibility, irregularity that new liberal policies predict. Do you boast that we have grown to be the third in the world and the first in Europe in business accidents in which workers' deaths have increased so much that we have lost dozens of lives each month? Unfortunately, in Turkey, which AKP has created, living is a coincidence, not dying anymore. Didn't Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan say he was destined for the accident that killed 28 miners in the Karadon well? Is being a coal miner equal to running for death? Because he has that perspective, he still kills workers in jean stoning, lives lost in shipyards, dozens of mine workers lose their lives, occupational diseases become common. What are you talking about growing up in a country where workers die so much? Who's paying the price for growing up? Privatisation, non-union and subcontractorisation policies briefly make it difficult to reach union rights. Are you too blind to see that? The government has repeatedly expressed the antidemocratic mentality of September 12th (September 2821 and 2822) of which they have adopted democracy, opened the way for organisation, embraced all dynamics of working life, passed laws in accordance with the European Union and ILO standards, both abroad and abroad. During the AKP ruling period, dozens of drafts were drafted, all in dusty shelves. Look, you've broken the peace of working by changing the laws of September 12th, in an antidemocratic way, and ignoring the will of the House. You're talking about ILO. Come on, let's face these numbers. Turkey's situation is pathetic among 34 OECD countries in terms of unionisation. With a 5.9% unionisation rate, it is the last of the OECD countries. Here's another success! First of the worst! On September 12, 1980, Turkey had a population of 45 million workers, a population of 2.5 million union workers, while the country today has a total number of active unions against 74 million and 15 million employees, about 600-650,000 workers with the right to a collective contract. Dear friends, the strike ban on public employees is being imposed on draft 4688. Deputy Prime Minister Brünt Arinc recently expressed the true intention of the AKP (AKP), which stalled public workers with the promise of amendments and collective agreements. According to Mr. Arinc, other confederates, other confederates had no right to say anything about amendments and collective contracts. Why? Because in the September 12th referendum, these unions, who do not say yes and want collective contracts, have committed crimes according to Mr. Bkent Arinc. The mentality here is clear. You remember earlier, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan had said to the entire community in the presence of TÜSİAD, that the non-partisan would be eliminated. These are the examples of AKP's advanced democracy. We've all testified and testified together as to how and by what scams the non-partisans were eliminated.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0033par0314	To democracy, to the people, to the people...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0032par0315	On February 7, 2005, 59, the Government sent the Bill of Law to parliament, which stipulated the ratification of the revised European Social Condition. However, unionisation, collective bargaining, and strike rights have been imposed on a large number of articles. These are still not removed. We have a beautiful proverb, which says: "The smoke is crooked, even if it is crooked. " But, dear friends, their chimneys are crooked, and their smoke is not right. (HPP) They offer unemployment and poverty as if it were fate, to show death and try to persuade malaria. In the AKP's ruling period, unemployment has not been reduced. In 2002, according to official data, the AKP was promised 10.4 per cent on the unemployment rate taken over by 10.3 per cent and climbing 14 per cent during the ten-year period of power. These numbers are official figures. Turkey's real unemployment in 2010 is estimated at about 18 per cent. According to research, in our country, where the poverty limit is 3,136 euros, the sum of five minimum wage is equivalent to the poverty limit. The hunger limit for November increased by $32 compared to the previous month, and the poverty limit increased by 102 euros. How can you explain increasing minimum wage by 3% in a country where the hunger limit is $922? Isn't that cruelty to the poor? A growing problem in our country is that there are 4/B (b) people with no job guarantees and 4/C) people with temporary and unsecured jobs. Unlawful work has become common with subcontractorization. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The number of subcontractors in public is expressed by hundreds of thousands, which is clearly labor exploitation.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0034par0320	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0032par0321	Just a second... I'll be right there, Mr. President. In your growing economy, pensioners are paid below the poverty line. We've seen what happens to the principle law that will be passed for millions of pensioners.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0034par0323	Mr. Çelebi, please...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0032par0324	Expectation created by the law of attitude failed, pensioners were disappointed. Looks like the mountain rat gave birth! Even if it's rain, they sure as hell won't rain on anybody's field! My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0034par0327	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the fifth speaker is İzmir MP Musa Çam. Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0035par0330	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, honored members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, highly valued bureaucrats, executives of public institutions and corporations, very valued workers of our press and very dear citizens who are watching us on screens, I salute you with love and respect on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group and on behalf of my own. I have been promised here today that the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, the President of the Occupational Qualification Board, the Institute for Turkey and the Middle East Amme Administration and the President of State Staff. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, when you look closely at public personnel policies, the regime of staff during the AKP appears to have been severely destroyed. Work relations, such as contractualism and subcontractorization, have also spread to public services, such as education, health, mainly, and constantly qualified. A regime adopted by its neutrality as an officer of the state, working in accordance with the principle of integrity and career in the face of political power, is becoming increasingly historic. The assurance given to the officer in the face of political power is regarded as a personal privilege by the government. In the 18th, 19th, 20th century of the historic process, the assurance given to the civil servant in this regime is a guarantee of the use of basic rights and freedoms in the nation's state, public interest, public service design, mainly for citizens to use equal, impartial public services. A new wave of attacks on workers and employees in Turkey is on the way, the Minister's statement to the press quoted as saying that the number 657 would be history. Clearly, the goal is to completely change the name of the Law of State Officers, which was issued in 1965. Mr. Secretary, it is the security work of the employees and the rights provided by the 657 (657) that he cannot tolerate. With the arrangement to be made, Mr. Secretary says the officers will provide rotation to other provinces. That means the government will now have the opportunity to spend unlimited time in exile. And it adds, Mr. Minister, that the Personal regime will also change. It is seen that policies that eliminate job guarantees are being sought to implement work based on flexible performance. There is no way to say yes to the political longings that make exile part of the life of a civil servant. At such a time when we demand the removal of the 4/C status, the AKP government, which appears to be opposed to subcontractorship, aims to bring all public personnel to a similar status. We are strongly against this situation. Dear lawmakers, so far the President of State Staff has been an institution of opinion and consideration. The most important feature of the AKP government is its defunctioning of institutions. Prior to that, the function of meeting the rights of the staff, the rights of the law, public officials unions and the problems faced in implementing the law has been removed from the practice of public workers' rights. The institution has been rendered meaningless. By turning it into an ordinary bureaucratic organization, it has become a government spokesman. It is no longer possible to hear a working-friendly opinion from this institution. The most concrete example of this is that for many years the members of the public officials' union cannot be a member. The Teel struggles of the presidency, which says, "The Tekel actions will become a member of the government's unions after one night, with the Prime Minister's order to become a member of the public servants' unions." The State Chief of Staff is now an organisation in which the AKP's staffing has been intensively established and has been transformed into a backyard. The government is under heavy control, and the government's function gives its opinion on its policies. In this institution, it's no longer about merit, it's about proximity to the government. Apart from reckless staffing, AKP has no other policy on bureaucracy and will not. Many staffs -- as in other institutions -- have been given to certain personnel here without exams. Hence, data preparation continues to be unfair, as in the case of the unstaffed personnel of the control company. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are known to be a state-run institution established in 1952 by an additional protocol for technical aid between Turkey and the United Nations and the Middle East Amme Administration Institute TODAIE, under Agency Law 7163, in scientific, financial and administrative autonomy. The overall aim of the institute is to make useful efforts for the development of public administration in accordance with modern thinking and approaches. However, despite its importance in the field of public administration, it is clear from the statements made by the Minister that this institution will also be history and will be taken into the administration of the State Staff. The regulation and the development of the Turkish Academy of Sciences on TÜBA are seen to be repeated and to be linked to the State Chief of Staff and to be taken into government's direction by destroying TODAİE's already limited autonomy. Mr. President, my dear friends, I'd like to say a few words about subcontractorization, especially Izmir. In recent days and early this year, the İzmir Metropolitan Municipality, the Interior Ministry inspectors, were surrounded by the Ministry of Finance inspectors, where bureaucrats serving as public officials were taken into custody. There is no harm in controlling 2,900 municipalities in Turkey, under complete control, but in a country ruled by opposition parties of 900 municipalities, where only 2,000 municipalities are run by the ruling party, there is no way to accept that local governments in opposition can be blocked by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Interior, the Court's auditors. [[Applause from CHP rows]] 5 trade unionists in İzmir Metropolitan Municipality are arrested today, including Jafer Gonca, Memiş Sarı, Yakup Yıldırım, Jafar Alp and Necip Binici, head of the General-Work Union of the DİSK. Again, the bureaucrats of the Metropolitan Municipality are not guilty, they are arrested in Bergama. They are imprisoned in the prisons of Izmir. So, why is a union manager being arrested? Conspiracy to the tender... as a union manager, friends, how can I be involved in corruption there as a fellow public servant? The goal is that Izmir Metropolitan Municipality has not allowed subcontractorship and will not allow it. Workers and workers who work at İzmir Municipality have the right to a strike and collective contract union, but Turkey has taken a subcontractorship in 2,000 municipalities, where the tenders have been taken and services bought. Only the Izmir Metropolitan City bureaucrats and executives and union managers are under arrest because of the opposition to subcontractorship. We send them greetings from here. They should know that sooner or later justice will come to pass, and we will have no doubt about it, dear friends. Look, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, come out into the hall, clean the toilets, clean our rooms, clean the halls here, all of your friends have the name of a company called TEMSAN. Do you guys look good in subcontractoring the Turkish Grand National Assembly? Do these look good on you guys? We're not going to say it, but where are we going to say it? I want to tell you all this. They have no rights, no severance, no information on how much SEC premiums are being invested, friends, but subcontractorization is in your genetics and genes.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0036par0342	You have it, you have it.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0035par0343	That's why you keep telling me this, it's not against subcontractorship, it's not. Subcontractorization is a classic slavery, a system where, as in early times, people are hired to work for food and work for food, and it's a human duty, a patriotic duty, dear friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: Do you remember Halil Tastah? Do you remember Nail Yilmaz? Do you remember Friday Yıldırım? Do you remember Mohsin Runan? Do you remember Kemal Diamond? Do you remember Hadji Mehmet İpek? Do you remember Adnan Demir? Do you remember Aydoğan Poland? He won't remember.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0037par0346	Congressman, since you don't remember...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0035par0347	These are the people who died early this year in a cave-in in Afghanistan. Friends, in the cave-in in Chile, all the people were removed alive within four months, but these people, these workers, these brothers and sisters, who have been buried in Afshin-Elbia since February, have not been reached, unfortunately, my dear brothers and sisters. [[A round of applause from CHP and MPP rows]] Now, Mr. Secretary, what are you going to do if you don't? We'd like to hear it from you, Mr. Secretary. Of course, Nazim Hikmet shall walk freely in this beautiful land with his most glorious hands, and with his overalls. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute you all with love and respect. I wish you well in your budget.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0038par0355	Thank you, Mr. Pine. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Iron Steel is a Mud MP. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0039par0359	Mr. President, my esteemed congresswoman friends, I have made a pledge to share my thoughts on the budget of the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications, which I have promised on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party. I salute you all. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers feel the dynamic of being a country with these possibilities, both geostrategic and geopolitical status. Three are surrounded by seas, 8.200km long sea lanes, Thracian, Anatolian peninsulas, Europe, and other parts of Asia as well as its relationship and connection with the continent of Asia, but at the same time in the Middle East, it is important that Nabucco and its subterranean riches serve as transport corridors and transport corridors, while the Blue Stream and Caucasus and the Caspian Sea basin have a corridor bearing its subterranean wealth; its economic and strategic status. It is also a painful reality that we do not use these dynamics to our purpose, to the welfare and happiness of society. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers we've been discussing, the budget we've been focusing on for a week, with the general interest of society, I wish the NGO, including political parties who haven't been able to capture political representation in our parliament, could have been altered, transformed in a process where democratic mass organisations can follow, add their contribution and values. But I do believe and I wish that our people and their basic dynamics on the screen, in their presence and in their arbitration, this process, once again, has given them the opportunity and the opportunity to follow the opinions of all our political parties from their power to their opposition. Although the budget of the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications represents a significant amount of the overall budget, it is true that what we foresee, especially when we call the age of telecommunications and communication, is not in a budget, a capacity to meet some of the social services that we call the age of communication. It is an obligation to be fast in transportation and access, to be safe, to be economic, to be efficient and accessible. How unfortunate is the policy of transportation and access to these criteria, which has not been implemented in our country for 90 years, but today is free of any understanding of practice. Mr. President, when we approach today's world with a look, we face the misfortune of changing global forces, changing every day as an option for the world's people and the oppressed. I wish that the dynamic of change, the oppressed, the poor, had a role in this change, a historical opportunity, function, and possibilities, in a quality similar to that of yesterday. However, the perception that the industrial community, or the industrial revolution, was a state that soon led by each nation, has not brought happiness to mankind for over three hundred years, and has also been a centralized solid structures with the nation's national unitary states, which have been placed behind the reduced customs walls, and has not brought wealth and prosperity to the people, has not brought pain, tears, unhappiness, and unhappiness to the community. In this sense, the modern world is rapidly evolving into a new sense, a sense that nation-unitary states will not be a solution to the tomorrow of mankind, that needs to be overcome and overcome. We are now passing through a period in which strict centralized states are needed more than any day, through a political organization that replaces decentralisation democratic states, as referees, equal, fair distances to society, providing them with justice, equality, freedom. Mr. President, from this point on, the vision of 2023 or 2050 is required when we approach the target long-term. When we try to build the building on the basis of today's parameters, it's also possible to capture frustration, failure, rather than success, when we don't set forth with clear and accurate ideas on what parameters we're going to get to 2023, or 2050, or with what social dynamics we're going to get. Of course, like any society, our country's power is a necessity to have vision, with its medium, long-term plans and projects, to open the way for society with its programs, to enlighten it. However, every moment and period of the 2023 project, every platform and every ever-defying power has predicted what or what it has not foreseen; I would like to point out a little bit about what it takes for us and for our future, and I would like to share some of the issues with you. Dear President, honorable lawmakers, when many of our friends come to this bench, they don't talk about the strong economy of Turkey. Of course, the fact that we are in the 16th place is an improvement to be proud of. When we activate a part of our purpose, we can also be ranked number one, and we can also become the world's largest economic power. But are we able to bring happiness to our society from this economic power that we have come to the 1st place? Have we achieved justice, equality, freedom? That should be the basic criteria. Look, powerful power, powerful state has been throughout history. More than we failed and failed, these powerful states built palaces of gold. He poured milk out of the taps under the palaces, but they were defeated by innovative ideas that even the most powerful armies in the world could not resist. The peace, freedom, and future that the palaces of gold, the milk flowing from the tap, did not give to the people, and made them inadequate, and the means to be overcome. Therefore, of course, it is important that Turkey has economic power. Our fight, our struggle, our struggle, is about this, but as it is today, we will face the fact that we are not centralizing the savings of capital, that we don't spread this wealth to society, that we can't turn the poor and the rest of society into existing wealth, that we can't transform the existing wealth into a relationship, that we can't bring into existence the participant democracy, that the strong economy and the strong power won't be enough to satisfy society, as it is today, and tomorrow we will face it. Therefore, our basic motto or vision is strong power, not strong state, but powerful society, social prosperity. As long as you can't free the communities, the state is strong, the power is strong, it won't give you a chance to get rid of your inadequacies, your inadequacies. Dear President, dear congressmen, while the world of today has evolved into less and more communities, we still face a shrinking society when we continue to convey our values, our savings, and our performances to strengthen the authoritarian mentality of the blessed state. When we deprive ourselves of the understanding of their synergy without adding them to the process by eliminating the dynamics of my downsized community, we face the fact that this state does not give us peace. This is also an important matter to remember. In the same way, fewer states predict a more democratic society, a fundamental spread of social prosperity. When you don't build a democratic society -- unless society sits in its natural place of historical adventure -- when you don't provide ecological peace, democratic peace, economic peace -- it's not going to give people anything but the pain caused by war and the methods of war. Mr. President, it's because we lack this vision that despite the world's reality that we all live in today's democratization of the state, we can't all accept the 31-year-old Constitution of September, which we complain about as political parties, individuals, MPs, instead of a democratic, egalitarian, liberal constitution. Why? It's because we're getting close to the problem with the perception of a society that should worship the blessed state, but it's also possible to face the fact that our work is much easier, much simpler when we view the state as a political organization for the benefit of humanity or for the service of the government. And because we are far from that understanding, although we have promised a more democratic country to our people in the September 12, 2010 referendum, it still deserves to use it against the state, society, and individual. In a country where millions of people are being tapped, telephones being tapped, politicians, intellectuals, or as a whole, people are being taken into custody in every way, the wealth of the country has no value in the 16th economic power. If I'm not free, if you're not free, if this isn't a society, and I'm not taking advantage of this economic power at the point of being free, there's a wrong relationship worth questioning. This relationship is not a law state, it is an authoritarian state, especially if it is being presented as an excuse to arrest mayors, lawmakers, who are trying to do a part of the government's duties. Imagine if the arrested mayors opened their health homes to address the state-run health policy, a political preference for which the state has blessed, embraced, and encompassed people in the main language, failed to meet their needs at the proper point, but also used geography, lake, mountain, street, square, and political preferences in order to name it, and if you have used the state, at a point where the local people have tried to meet their needs in order to address the public's native language, it is not the state, it is the state, it is not the state, it is the state, it is the state, it is the state. Despite the charges directed at these people and brought against them, if no evidence has been blacked out, and there's no way to escape, if they've been sentenced to years of pure imprisonment, that means that we still have a painful truth to prevent us from seeing the vision of 2023. Instead of being a political organization, if the state has a perception based on reciprocity, efficiency, productivity, transparency, with a reaction to everyone who has a demand, that allows him to be punished, that allows him to be punished, then there's no efficiency, productivity, transparency. The closed society must be seen by the ruling party as well as by the risk and danger that we are moving rapidly towards the closed economy. We need to avoid the perception of how to end history with itself, how to end the date that it started with itself, and how to understand the megalomaniac. Of course, history is one, the state is a continuity. The state's inadequacies do not make any of us happy today with the resources and resources that they produce, but what they're doing in the nine-year period of AKP power, and what they're trying to do, we appreciate that. But it's not right that he's always putting it in front of us at a level and understanding that makes society at a point of strong economics. Because the world is changing every day, hour and hour, every moment, again and again. If yesterday's taboos are broken, if the spirit of change confronts us every day with hearing, listening, and paying attention, then we have to act on the condition that what we do is not enough, that this must be a savings for the future society. In that sense, it is universal that a person's right to live is a basic right to be educated in his native language, that his identity as a people should be subject to constitutional security, that his culture should be subject to constitutional security, that travel freedom of thought and freedom of expression, that people cannot be judged, that they have the right to speak, write, and spread. When we approach these universal rights as a vision that should be overcome by caring about a new constitution at this time, it is possible to catch 2023, then 2050 targets. It's not a strong, powerful, democratic state that's growing in this goal that we've achieved, but we can also create democratic society, free society, economic society. And at this point, facing our history, which has been on the agenda of our society and our country for days, will give us an important opportunity to remove many obstacles to democratisation. Our 90-year-old republic's history has had many remarkable achievements, but depending on the characteristics of the nation's unitary state, the Republic of Turkey was strict, centrist, single-minded. The strict, centralist and monotheist state has put us in the face of an objective situation where we need to be freed from a position that denies and denies and rejects differences. Come, please, before we allow our people to experience new suffering, let's turn this process into a legitimate, democratic ground that we've been able to solve in favour of the oppressed people of Turkey, and in favour of the poor. If instead of multi-democracy, we can create a majority, a coven where differences can be at peace, it is possible to create society. The Kurds are more than anyone, especially as the Peace and Democracy Party, as a political party, as a democratic, equal, free citizens in this common country... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we want to live with everyone. It's terrorism to live...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0040par0382	Thank you, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0039par0383	I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit01spe0040par0384	Congressmans, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0040par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 37th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law for 2012 and with the Central Management Act for 2010. The commission and the government are in place. Now, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group in the tenth round, Idris Bauken is an MP in Bingol. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0041par0007	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my Group on the budget of the Department of Labor and Social Security in 2012. I salute your committee. Dear lawmakers, we witness the destruction projects of neoliberal policies, which have been carried out decisively along with the 1980 military coup, especially in working life, on public and labor. In particular, we all testified that these neoliberal policies, which were implemented during the AKP administration from 2002 to 2011, brought some processes that were developing against society, in favour of capital. We're looking at the increasing rate of scissors between these neoliberal policies and the rich and the poor. In particular, we are witnessing that many middle class people in the country now have lost their middle class quality and are part of the lower class below the poverty line. In this regard, we all know that health workers, health workers, were previously in the middle class, and today, under the poverty line, the lower class. Again, we all know that the number of billionaires, especially 4 in 2004, rose to 28, or even to 28, as of 2011, when the scissors for wealth were opened. When we talked about the justice of income distribution, the criteria should have been not the growing number of billionaires, but the growing equality, the demand for justice of the agreed income distribution. Dear lawmakers, I would like to point out from here that in these nine years of law enforcement that the AKP is in power, it is not particularly consistent with the social state principle of the Constitution, because it is clear and clear that in Article 60 of the Constitution, everyone has social security rights and the task of taking the necessary measures to ensure that security is provided by the state. Again, in Article 61 of the Constitution, the state has been charged with taking the necessary measures to bring children in need of protection into society. Precious lawmakers, especially regarding these social security policies, you know, we're rebuilding the social security system. The AKP was put into work with the expression, but we see together that this deficit, defined as a black hole, increased daily at the time of the arrival, increased by 29 billion, 42 billion, 836 million in 2009, 44 billion in 2010, and eventually over 50 billion in 2011. Now, most of our ministers or government officials, who use this bench during their talks during the Plan and Budget Commission talks, or at the General Assembly talks here, have spoken highly of Turkey's growing economy in the world. In particular, the 16th largest economy, we tried to express as opposition that this is not how the picture was reflected in real life. See here, according to the United Nations Human Development Report, Turkey is the 67th place in the world in terms of national income per capita in its ability to buy. According to the same United Nations Human Development Index, Turkey is the 92nd place in the world. There were again talks about employment and unemployment. Look, let's just talk to the TÜİK figures that all of the lines of opposition to the data given by this TÜİK (TİK) do not trust all the MPs sitting at this time; and I'm sure that within the AKP, many of you are thinking about how biased these numbers are, in fact, a number of numerical games aimed at clearing government policies. Even based on these TÜİK figures, we see that the unemployment rate in Turkey was given 11.9 in 2011, and that's 8.3 percent in OECD countries. Among the OECD countries, Turkey is one of the highest unemployment rates. According to the International Labour Organization, Turkey is among the five countries where unemployment is the busiest. Again, in 2009, Turkey's employment rate was 44.3 per cent. When we look at the OECD average, we see that this is 66.1%. It's clear here that we're dealing with a growing army of unemployed policymakers. We face a method of using policies here as a threat to workers rather than the search to create employment for these unemployed army, against those who work for the unemployed army, against those who are employed. During the AKP, we see workers' share of production reduced by 50 per cent. Dear lawmakers, I've mentioned injustice in the revenue distribution, and just to be clear, we need to give you these examples: 20 percent of the population in Turkey holds 47.6 percent of the total income, or 50 percent of the total income, and 20 percent of the poorest address 5.6 percent of the total income. So on the one hand, the speech of a 20% percentage of income to a 50 per cent income, and on the other hand, 5.6 per cent of the poorest population's address to a 5.6 per cent of the income distribution is best shown by the unfairness of income distribution. Look, we're third to third in terms of income distribution justice among OECD countries. To show you a picture of poverty in the country, I would like to share with you some statistical data: 200 grams of bread in 2002, 25 cents on bread in the same gram, 60 cents on bread today, a 12.5 litre kitchen tube is up to $15 lira today, so the rate of increase is over 300 per cent. We are again the country where the world's most expensive gasoline is consumed by the world's most expensive meat. Now, we can sequence this data here for hours at a completely lower level, but here we think we need to get to the bottom of the problem, the source of the problem. Dear lawmakers, we are dealing with a number of paintings that have brought the country's war environment and the waste of its resources to this war environment, particularly in the last 30 years, stemming from the country's unresolved Kurdish problem. In fact, it's the fact that the external open, current openness increases every day, the black hole in social security increases every day, the fact that this war, the war we're talking about, consumes the resources of the war. Dear lawmakers, look, an F-16 fighter only costs 255,000 dollars an hour to stay in the air. An F-4 plane costs 30 grand an hour to stay in the air. This year alone, 109 helicopter tenders between Turkey and the United States are $3.5 billion. For good understanding, we can say: With the 3.5 billion spent on this helicopter tender, a 400-bed hospital could be built in each city, nearly 1,000 elementary schools could be built in any city. See, it also appeared in the press today, following the 2003 Bingol earthquake, the 100th Year Elementary School in Bingol is continuing its training activities every day to threaten the safety of hundreds of students because there is no grant. We send our own students to a school, a damaged school like this, risking their safety like this, but we also transfer huge amounts to helicopter tenders like this. Look, we'd like you to compare $3.5 billion in this tender to the help sent to a natural disaster, the van. So far, I've transferred it to the state of Van. The amount that the government called $17 million was based on a plan that would spend the majority of that $17 million on police and national education. An understanding that puts $3.5 billion into a helicopter tender has never given a single penny to the municipality of a city whose infrastructure has completely collapsed due to a natural disaster. In fact, we have reached the final point of the city's power, and we have come to the point where we can't serve because our revenues are completely exhausted. We therefore care that the real source of the problem should be brought forward. Dear lawmakers, we are experiencing a process in Turkey where the informal economy is rapidly growing and the unionisation rate is rapidly going down, leading to the bottom. Look, we're number 1 in the non-registered economy at 45 percent among the OECD countries. As far as unionisation goes, we're last among the OECD countries. We've all heard of recent arrests against union leaders, union activists and members. See, many trade unionists, including the president of KESK, Turkey's largest confederation today, face a number of court proceedings that have been demanded for more than 150 years. In particular, let us share here some of the figures that the TÜİK (TİK) has given. Turkey is reported by the TÜİK, where one out of five people are poor. Actually, we know it's much higher than that. However, the poverty of one of the five is above the poverty of many countries in the Middle East and Africa. In particular, when we look at general social policies in the fight against poverty, we know that social welfare policies, which have ended this poverty during the AKP government, which have been fighting poverty, that have kept poverty going, are somehow being cared for, in a way, for the public masses to be in need of it. In election times, we have a reality that what our people say as pasta aid, these social welfare policies don't satisfy the poverty of our people, but they make poverty dependent on the system and the government. Look, with the AKP's policies, there's a 2.4 per cent difference between 26 per cent and 23.6 per cent of poverty. During the same process, the fight against poverty in the European Union dropped from 43 per cent to 16 per cent. Because as I mentioned, there are significant differences in basic logic. In particular, we have often witnessed practices aimed at working life, which the AKP government offers as reforms every day, which bring the hearts of working people, workers, workers, workers. We're all aware of the latest requests for the removal of severance pay. From here, we also call on our Minister: this severance pay is a fund that workers earn as a right to the struggles of workers. Thus, processes related to this need to be reconsidered. We think that the government should be sensitive in some way to the rhetoric of civil society, political parties, social opposition, or labour masses, and reflect that on their own policy. To this end, I would like to share a report, especially in today's Anayurt newspaper, with our Minister: thousands of farmers in Şanliurfa, who make their living difficult, expect to retire from Minister Faruk Çelik, even though they have reached the age of pension. Şanlıurfalı voters expect their ministers, the SGK and the BUG-KURL people, to make a five-year loan of service to those who have reached their retirement age. In fact, thousands of people -- not just in Şanlıurfa -- want to lend back service to Turkey, although it has reached its retirement age. Now, I would like to point out that we expect a sensitivity to thousands of farmers, thousands of pensioners, that such processes, such opposition sounds, must somehow be cared for and carried out by the government. Precious lawmakers, especially in the policies the AKP has implemented in this working life, we have seen together the policies of unemployment in general, the low efficiency of labor, the rising of subcontracts every day, where business assurances go to unknown points with policies that are being implemented every day. We know the national employment strategy that the AKP wants to implement. In particular, one of the most important feet in this national employment strategy is the application of the regionary minimum wage. See, the basic goal of this regional minimum wage application is to keep minimum wage in the eastern Anatolian and Southeast Anatolian region, especially with low socioeconomic levels. We know that this practice, which is designed to be shaped by Kurdish people, is directly aimed at the exploitation of Kurdish people in terms of labor. Today, we know that all heavy labor is being used in some way, especially in the East and East Southeast region. We know the drama of seasonal workers -- every season. We all know how low wages, unsecured, seasonal workers, who work their way through immigration, who sometimes don't get into those cities because of their identity, sometimes when they're put into the city, they're subjected to lynching cultures, lynching attacks. Again, look at the majority of workers in the most heavy sector of construction, and you'll see people in the same area. In the solid waste collection department, look at the workers in your service, you'll see more Kurds again. Now, this regional minimum wage application, which is now to be put into action, will also bring about more labour exploitation, with the minimum wage being paid by Kurds in a regional range outside of these heavy labour columns that they already worked on. We're talking about political genocide operations in the political field. Look, we want to point out that if this national employment strategy brings us this kind of regional minimum wage, we're going to call it a labour genocide against the Kurdish people, and we're going to announce it to our people in this direction. Dear lawmakers, we all know that one of the laws the AKP government has recently tried to enforce is a bill on the prevention of financing terrorism. This bill stands before us as a reality in which it is intended to be carried out in particular in the form of a property tax disaster and will be brought before us in the coming months. Look, the goal here is to apply the victimization of the Kurdish working class with these practices we're talking about to the Kurdish capital class as well. In the 90s, we all know what bloody executions went through Kurdish businessmen, capital owners, and bermuda triangles in the Marmua region. Now, what's to be done is that these bloody executions are somehow restored to a form that predates economic genocide. So we want to point out that the game here is extremely dangerous. On the one hand, you're going to victimize the practices you've done for the Kurdish workers, and on the other hand, you're going to bring down a number of plans that will cause the destruction of this capital every day as a law. Dear lawmakers, the Ministry of Labour and Social Security budget was set at $35 billion last year, while 12 per cent this year was reduced to $31 billion,552m. Here's the understanding that what needs to be done is that the idea of neoliberal economics is a reflection of the budget when the government pulls it from the market in favour of employers. Why are we saying this? Because we are dealing with the most intense period of labor health and especially business accidents. See, between 2000 and 2009, workers' deaths increased by 60 percent. In the first nine months of 2011, 419 workers died after a work accident. In October 2011 alone, 52 workers lost their lives after a work accident, 142 workers were severely injured. We all know the drama of Silicosis patients, the workers who work in the jean-bolting business. The number of silicon patients who have died thus far has reached 67. We think it's unacceptable that the Department of Social Security budget should be reduced by 12 per cent in a place of business accidents and work losses. My dear friends, the esteemed MPs, therefore state that we will vote against this budget of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, and my compliments to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0042par0037	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Now, it's Yaşar Karayel, Kayseri MP who wants to speak in favor. Here you go, Mr. Karayel.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0043par0041	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a personal pledge on the 2012 budget of our ten-round agencies. I salute your committee. As EC PARTY governments, we've made huge investments in our country over the last nine years. We signed major reforms in Turkey. The airway became a public road during the AK PARTY ruling period. For the first time in the history of the world's seafaring, Turkish seamanship has entered into it. The road is civilization. We said that during the AK PARTY, we connected the land with its land in a qualified way. All roads, bridges and art structures in Turkey are made by Turkish architects, engineers and contractors. For that reason, Turkish contractor services have entered the top three of the world's contractor services. When we look at our roads, we have a network of 40,000 kilometers. 2,236 kilometers of them are highway-based, and 522 kilometers of them are made by the AK PARTY Power. The most important of our highway projects is the 421km long Gulf Pass and the Gebze-Izmir Highway Project. This project is intended to be completed in five years. Another important highway project is the North Marmara Highway Project, which includes the third bridge to Istanbul. The Kınalı-Tekirdağ-Kanakkale-Balayesir Highway Project, Nüğde-Ankara-Samsun, Ankara-Izmir highway projects are among the goals of major projects to be completed by 2023. Great investments have been made in the railways while they were being carried out on the roads. So far, 150 miles of new railroads and 5,500 kilometers of renovations have been conducted. Ankara-İstanbul, Ankara-Eskişehir-Konya, Ankara-Sivas, the total fast train project continues at 2,300km, including Ringli-Kaykule lines. These projects will be spent over $10 billion. 21,227 kilometers of these roads were divided and were made during the period of power that had passed 6,100km of these roads, while 15,120km was completed by the AK PARTI Authority. Our six pre-2003 provinces are interconnected in divided ways, while our 74 provinces are now connected in qualified ways. On these roads, 92 percent of our road transport is made. The transport of 182 million tons of cargo is carried by around 430,000 K-documented transport companies. As our paths are made, the mountains are not made over the hills, our mountains are turned into tunnels into plains. The Bolu Mountain Tunnel was drilled in 17 years -- 3,039 metres long -- and the length of the tunnels between 2003 and 2011 grew above 93 kilometers. In the last nine years, 1.180 bridges and viaducts, 76 kilometers [76 km] long, have been presented to our nation's service. Our country in the earthquake belt has had 125 important art structures, particularly the Istanbul Bosphorus Bridge, and seismic supplements of the viaducts, which continue to be made. Our 701 highways have made improvements at the point of impact and have been prevented from preventing accidents. So far, the east-west, the Tetex, divided roads in the north-south side, have been prioritized, the distances between the Mediterranean and the Black Sea have been further shortened. Our goal is to bring our country to a divided road of 70,000km on the 100th anniversary of Turkey. In new ways, the work of the BSK continues rapidly, along with the work of our old ways. Indeed, in Ankara's direction, Ankara-Samsun, Ankara-Kırikkale-Kayseri, the BSK work in our regions up to Ağrı. By 2023, BSK studies will continue, and BSK studies will continue in our new ways to be done, along with our current routes. In particular, all of our divided roads in our own constituency, Kayseri-Sivas, Kayseri-Anseri-Ankara and Kayseri-Kahseri-Kahseride are now tendered as BSK studies. We give our thanks and respect to all our ministers and regional directors, especially our prime minister, and to all the technical staff who have done their job, who have contributed to the dream come true, and to all our ministers, especially our Prime Minister, and to all of our road managers, and to all the technical staff who have done their job, and to the best of our budget.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0044par0054	You haven't thanked road workers, technical staff.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0045par0055	Thank you, Mr. Karayel. And now, in the name of the government, Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications Bali Yıldırım. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, members of the High Assembly, I have made a commitment to discuss budget negotiations in 2012. I salute you all with love and respect. On this occasion, I would like to thank all of our lawmakers, who have contributed to our budget, who have made positive negative criticism during the talks on the Plan and Budget Commission, as well as at the General Assembly. From the day the Ministry of Transport was founded, I want to thank all those who have worked in the transportation community once again, including those who have invested in all parts of Turkey, who have worked hard to get there, and who have done so before, and who have not been, and I wish God's mercy to those who are not. Mr. President, valuable MPs, transportation and access are the head of everything. So that transportation and communications infrastructure and services -- divided roads, viaducts, bridges, tunnels, railways, airports, ports, shipyards, string-free communications infrastructure and vehicles -- are essential to the development of countries and the welfare of nations. This is as old as human history, and so was yesterday, and so will today, and so will the future. Civilizations are always built on roads and developed because there's no development, no prosperity, no life in an unreachable, unattainable place. Turkey's change over the past nine years has been a result of investments with this idea. Mr. President, valued members, our country, which has been a bridge between Europe and Asia and has hosted important civilizations throughout the ages, is on the transition of the world's major production and consumption centres. With this location, Turkey, Europe, Asia, Caucasus, North Africa, the Middle East and the Russian Federation of Russia address a region containing a population of 1.5 billion people, including 25 trillion GDP. We've invested 112 billion in the transport industry over the past nine years. With the old money, 112 quadrillion, 87 per cent of this investment, 98 billion were made with budget opportunities, and 14 billion with public-private sector partnerships. The total share of transport investments increased from 17 per cent in 2003 to 46 per cent today. Almost half of the investments made by the Central Administration are conducted by the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications. So, the year of completion of these projects, due to the opportunities provided in the budget and the opportunities provided by alternative financial methods, is 11 years, 12 years, and that is now four years. Thus, the longing of our citizens for roads, airports, railways, communication highways could soon be removed. This is an important gain for our country, for our nation. Knowledge has become the only power. Now, the countries that have the ball, the rifle, not the tank, the information, the information, the information, and the information that is being used for the benefit of the community are taking one step ahead, and those who lack it are called backward countries. We will take science and science from wherever it is. This motto of the great Ataturk, which says, is consistent with our country's aims to become a knowledge society. With the help of access to the Internet, we enabled the elderly, the villagers, the urban people, to use the Internet. By putting the e-government door to work, we have prevented the public from suffering and suffering at the gate of the state in its power in their work with the government, and today many public services have become available via the Internet, via the computer. We've accessed 10 million users. Here's an interesting thing: our citizens over the age of sixty-five have more than 320 grand in service at the e-state gate. This shows that the Turkish community is open to change and development. As Ahmet Hamdi Tanpınar said: "The tradition is to continue on and on and on and on and on. This is exactly how these e-state practices seem to have led to this change in society. Dear lawmakers, the information society has very important things to do with our goal. Turkey's broadband internet access met Internet highways during our rule period. From zero users to 13 million subscribers today, we have reached home and 45 million users. We've become one of 10 members of the European Union. In a sense, Turkey has risen from African level to European level in communication. In annual sound traffic, Turkey is number 1 in Europe; 163 billion minutes a year, and 1 (261 minutes a month). Britain and France come in the 2nd place. It's the same with the message. As is known, Turkey takes the first four places on social networking sites. Turkey is among the countries that have the most intensive use of the Internet, and Turkey is at the top of the fastest growing use of the Internet. Establishing public internet access centres, meeting social responsibility projects are some of the important services we do in this sense. Mr. President, you'll appreciate that it's not possible to fit the activities of this Ministry, which we've been in for the most part of our daily lives and our lives, such as transportation, sailing, communications. Here, speakers, in fact, expressed with open heart the things that were done and the things that needed to be done better, even the things that were missing, the things that were wrong in their own way. I'd like to talk about the short sectors where I can answer these questions in terms of questions and answers, and to use time effectively. I also think it's important to say a few sentences to PTT, after the IT industry. With the development of information communication technologies, unfortunately, the PTT has become an institution that is losing blood, making our people's lives easier, making profits and services again today. How do we know that? In one year, in 2003, the number of monthly transactions is 2.2 million in PTT branches, and today we're up to 24 million, more than 10 times higher. So more of our citizens are going to PTT. They're getting services from PTT. 1,425 places only serve PTT, no banks, no financial services. Our citizens continue to benefit from PTT cargo, PTT logistics, PTT jobs renovating, PTTmatics and many services. I'd like to talk a few sentences about aviation. In fact, the aviation industry is a highly developed industry in Turkey that has given the world a finger bite. How do we know that? We understand the world's crises, the development of average aviation in the world. While world aviation is growing between 3 per cent and 5 per cent, even this year Turkish aviation has continued to grow by 9 per cent on the domestic lines, and if I give the average total growth figure, it will probably be better: 8.5 million people are traveling by plane in early 2003, and today, as of this date, it has only increased to 57 million domestic lines. (AK PARTY) As 34 million of our people travel by plane on the domestic and external lines, this number exceeds 110 million by the end of this year. Now the airway has become the way of the people. It is not a dry expression, it is a fact. 15 million of our citizens met by plane. Back in the day, everyone who traveled by plane knew each other, greeted each other. Now it's easier to get on a plane than it is to get in a Vezner-five-center van. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, there's a time shortage, and I need to say a few words from the railroad. The railways are as important as the sovereignty of the Republic of Turkey. Therefore, the great Ataturk says: "The roads of iron are prosperous and Ümran.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0046par0078	Mr. Secretary, what about the speed train project for Bursa? Why didn't you? There was a bid for a fast train to Bursa. There's been a bid on the New Town stage, and there's been a drop-off. There's also a bidding between Yenişehir-Billy. You were going to base it in 2010, 2010. Yes, for 40 years, this is the government that has made the high-speed train, the 21 ministers, the old but never-happening, the high-speed train. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] How many years will the scholarship end? Ankara-Eskişehir, Ankara-Konya, Marmaray, Ankara-Istanbul, Ankara-Sivas in 2016, Ankara-İzmir in 2017, Ankara-İzmir in the high-speed train. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] When will the scholarship end? Yes, now the railroads were forgotten. From 1950, the railways came from this country's agenda. In 2003, we strengthened our ground infrastructure both in divided roads and equipped the country with roads divided from east to west; we divided roads, united lives, and brought the railways back to the country's agenda, and renewed the existing railway line 6,500km while speeding high-speed railway projects for the development of the railways. Not only that, but we built a local railway industry on the railway tracks. The fast train factory was built. The Ray factory was built. The scissor factory was built. The Travers factory was built, and we no longer need outsiders. We make the track ourselves, and we make the train ourselves; we employ our country, we bring technology to our country. There's a lot to say, but unfortunately time doesn't allow it. Another area is sailing. There's a lot to be said for sailing. Two and a half billion we've supported our sailors in cash, two and a half quadrillion. We removed the OTV, which resulted in a 92 per cent charge on our capotage line, 59 per cent increase on the passenger. I'll tell you one thing: Turkey today is the 15th ranking of Turkey among the thirty countries that make up 89 per cent of the world's trade fleet. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Here, sailing came here in Turkey. In the construction of the ship, we were raised to the sixth ranking in the 23rd row. We became Turkey's brand in yacht construction, the third in the world on mega yachts, the fifth in the world on regular yachts. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We promoted the naval service to the ministry, not the general manager. (AK PARTY) There is now Turkey's Maritime Ministry, and from now on, the sea will be dealt with differently, and Turkey will also make the need to be a sea country, a marine nation, with a coast of 8,450km. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course -- time is almost up -- I'd like to say a few words to the roads immediately. I don't need to tell you about the roads. The sentence knows, sees, what's being done about all the roads in the world. Thanks to our opposition lawmakers, they appreciate it, and there's warning information about what they're saying. And we're writing this down carefully. For example, what a preacher says is that there are too many curves, too many bowls, because of publicization on the roads. Now, we said to the friends, "Let it go, brother. No matter what the cost, the viaductus, the tunnel, the tunnel, we'll never avoid; the road is done, we'll make it as smooth as we can, we'll cut through the mountains, we'll via the viaduct, we'll divide the roads, we'll unite the nation. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) We continue to make our way with that understanding. Yeah, I'm at the end of the conversation. I'm gonna say a lot of things. We have citizens traveling safely on divided roads, flying all over the world, living in high-speed train speed and comfort, enjoying fast access to the Internet, not with our future poet Mehmet Akif Ersoyun's imagination, believe me, I've seen what I've said and said. As he says, not dreams, but what he sees and experiences, our citizens tell everywhere. What did we say? The dream came true. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you for your contributions to the 100,000 people who worked hard to achieve our goals and worked for this part in 2003.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0047par0097	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, I will now make a promise to the Minister of Labour and Social Security, but before we make a promise, we have a Prime Minister's thesis. This is about the International Labour Agency (ILO), which is a member of our country, as per Article 19 of the Constitution (ILO), which states to provide information to the legislature regarding the agreements and recommendations adopted at international work conferences. After having the ILO Constitution read the Prime Minister's thesis, I will make a promise to the Minister of Labour and Social Security first. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 100 in June 2011. It was adopted at the International Study Conference, dated 16/6/2011, with the Treaty of Employees in Home Services 189, and the transcripts of interest in the introduction of information to the Grand National Assembly during budget talks by Labour and Social Security Minister 201, which complements this contract. I'll give you what you need. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0048par0109	Mr. President, I'd like to inform the High Council on Act 189 and Advice Decision 201 regarding the employees of house services, which have been accepted with the support of our country at the 100th Conference of the International Labour Organization. As it is known, home services are performed by women and young girls, mostly immigrant or disadvantaged, who are most exposed to discrimination, especially related to employment and other human rights violations. The home services sector contributes substantially to the economy, including increasing job opportunities for employees with family responsibilities, expanding the scope of care services for aging populations, children and disabled persons, providing significant income transfers within the country and between countries. In developing countries, where registered employment opportunities have been scarce, home services are largely ignored, even though they form a significant proportion of the active population of these countries. For this reason, the International Labour Organization has noted the need for implementing certain international standards at an international level, which are determined to maintain their invisibility and not appreciate the value that it deserves, with respect to fair employment conditions and reputable working conditions for household services. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the International Labour Organization, have agreed to Article 189, which has established a respectable working arm for those who work in the household services above, and its recommendation Resolution 201, which complements this Convention. These regulations aim to ensure that all workers in household services, especially immigrants, are protected from abuse, violence, and abuse. In the same way, the privacy of household services workers who are usually in the same position of living as their employer is also guaranteed with their identity and travel documents. The contract and advice decision provides international standards, such as setting standards on working hours, minimum wages, protection of wages, and the same payment, and considering business health and social security issues for this form of work, preventing abuses by employment institutions. I submit to the knowledge of the High Council.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0049par0116	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm now rebooting your time to make your speech on behalf of the government, please. [[Continue]] EVLET PERSONEL PRESIDENT
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0050par0152	Mr. President, I'm here on behalf of the esteemed lawmakers, on the basis of the talks of the budget bill 2012 of our institutions, which is connected to the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. I salute the High Council, and I thank all my fellow lawmakers who have been reviewing so far. Dear lawmakers, Turkey has traveled many distances in work and social security, as has been in every field in the past nine years, and has signed very important reforms. As you will recall, we have implemented many regulations, such as social security reform, general health insurance, occupational education, reduction of labour burdens, promotion of 5 points insurance premiums, promotion of women and young employment, expanding the scope of short labour allowances, declaring a holiday on May 1st, and increasing employment. Just after the establishment of the 61st government, we quickly put other problems of our working life on the agenda. During this period, during this five month period, we signed a collective contract of employment, which includes about 230 thousand of our workers, in agreement with our social partners. Then we combined the laws 2821 and 2822, again reflecting the antidemocratic mentality of September 12th, under the Law on Public Business Affairs, and in the result of long discussions with our social partners, we completed the work of these union laws and sent them to the Council of Ministers. As you will recall, instead of meeting collectively with the Constitutional referendum on September 12, 2010, there was a referendum on the transfer of our officers to the collective contract, and the transfer to the collective contract was approved. We have completed the study of the law of harmony that we have made in this framework, and we have submitted this draft as a bill to the Council of Ministers. During this coming period, the period of mass discussion is now over, and we are now in the middle of a collective agreement. I believe that in the next very short period of time, Turkey will discuss these laws, meet with the Grand National Assembly, and our officers will be given a raise in salary on the table, not as part of a collective meeting in 2012. That's what I'm saying here. Mr. President, good lawmakers, as you have followed closely, there has been an economic crisis in the world that has not been seen before in the last four or five years. We're going through a period all over the world where the expectations of economic growth are revised downwards and the creditability of governments is questioned. There is no doubt that economic crises affect employees in the first place, reduce employment, and increase unemployment. According to the International Labour Organization, around 34 million people were unemployed during crisis times. According to the latest data, unemployment was 9.8 per cent in the European Union average; 8.2% in the United States; 22.8% in Spain; 17.6 in Greece; 8.5 in Italy; 9.8 in France. Thus, unemployment will continue to be one of the most important problems of all the world's countries in the future, as it did yesterday. At this year's G-20 working ministers' meeting, the country's new business investments, creating jobs, encouraging active employment policies, putting employment at the centre of economic policies. As such developments took place in the world, Turkey's momentum in growth began to show itself in the fight against employment and unemployment. Turkey's stability in the political field is reflected in the economy, not only in the economy, but also in employment. We've established a model of employment-friendly growth. According to the latest data, the unemployment rate was 11.4 in August 2010, while in August 2011 the unemployment rate dropped to 9.2, while the number of unemployed dropped to 2m,520,000. Our employment has increased by 1 million,689 thousand people in the last year, which is the highest increase in the history of the republic in a year; again, the highest employment increase in the history of the republic has been made this year, and the number of people employed is 1,69,000. [[A round of applause from AKP rows]] With these figures, Turkey has succeeded in becoming the country among the G-20 countries that boosted its employment during the global crisis. In an effort to increase employment, at the end of August 2011, an incentive was imposed at the cost of $4 billion and $50m, which includes 7 million 893,000 workers. And then I want to say here that we're going to continue to work-oriented growth and to focus on policies that will increase the quality of the workforce. In this direction, we will also share the National Employment Strategy, which aims at the 5 per cent unemployment rate in 2023, with the public in the coming process. Mr. President, the valued MPs, as you know, most of the unemployment in Turkey stems from fundamental structural problems. The basis of these problems is the shift from busy sectors to technological intensive sectors, so from agricultural society to new economy, industry and information society. If we were to give a figure, the total employment rate in 1990 was 47 per cent, while today it was 25 per cent, while in 1990 33 per cent of total employment took place in the service sector, while today it was 49 per cent. This transformation also brought the supply-request discrepancy in labour markets, the lack of labourforce quality, and the problem of unemployment. After all, we're dealing with a business world that needs qualified labor while we have 2.5 million unemployed on one side. Here, we're working very hard to solve this problem. To this end, we have transferred $1.4 billion a year, especially over the past three and a half years, providing professional training for about 500,000 people. We've also traveled considerable distances in determining professional standards. Two hundred and six national professional standards were published in the Official Gazette. As a government, we will continue to give the necessary importance of vocational education. In addition, we have expanded and implemented the scope of working programmes for the benefit of the community, where employment opportunities are scarce and unemployment is busy. As a result of the earthquake, we have given 6,000 brothers, eight months, to work for the community. We will also provide jobs and employment services for all job seekers, whether they are employed by any unemployed person or not. In a total of two years, we will be employing 4,000 contracts and occupational advisors. A total of $2,38,000 paid $4 billion,470m, to those who were eligible for unemployment allowance from March 2002 to November 2011, to the end of November. The total existence of the unemployment benefit fund is 52 billion,789 million TL, as of November 30, 2011.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0051par0171	How much has the GAP been paid, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0050par0172	Mr. President, valued lawmakers are a common problem facing all countries on business health and safety, one of the most important agendas of their working life. The largest organisation in the field of occupational health and safety, as you know, is the World Business Health Congress, which we carried out in İstanbul. We have hosted 5,400 participants from 140 countries in Turkey, and we have signed the Istanbul Declaration, along with 34 other ministers who have joined it, and immediately after this Congress, we have prepared a law on Turkey's future occupational health and safety, and we have submitted it to the Council of Ministers. The 187 ILO Framework Agreement for Occupational Health and Safety is on the agenda of the General Assembly to be approved. I believe that will be approved shortly. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the Social Security Agency has completed its organisation significantly after the establishment of institutions and legislation under one roof, and our 335 social security directorates throughout Turkey have been opened in addition to our municipal institutions. In this way, the period of public service was during the EC PARTY, not at the foot of the service, but at the foot of the citizen. Speaking of which, I'd like to share with you the income and expense table of the Social Security Agency with the active and passive insurance providers under social security: As of the end of 2010, the total number of active insurance holders was 16 million,196 thousand, with an increase of 8 per cent by the end of September 2011, reaching 17 million 483,000 people. As of the end of 2010, 9 million, 498 thousand people are passive-insuranced, and the number of pensioners has increased by 4.17 per cent, with a 4.5 per cent increase by the end of October 2011, reaching 9,933,000 people. So there's an 8 per cent increase in assets, while there's a 4 per cent increase in passives. So, at the end of this, when we look at the active-passion ratio, this ratio has reached 1,84. As of the end of 2011, the Social Security Agency's income is estimated to be $124 billion, 726 million, $140 billion, $772 million, and its open financing is estimated to be $16 billion, 46 million. We also continue to fight off-the-book employment for the repair of our social security system's active structure and a sustainable social security system. In this scope, the activities and audits carried out regarding the prevention of off-the-book employment have been recorded by identifying 963,928 employees and 58,220 workplaces as unregistered during September 2008-2011. Also, as you know, in February 2011, the Social Security Foundation's payments were structured, as a result of this configuration, there were 2,387,711 applications, 39 billion 745 million, 713,940 dollars in debt. As of December 5, 2011, 7 billion 801 million and 776 million liras were collected. Mr. President, good lawmakers, health is a fundamental right that cannot and cannot be postponed. Thus, as a government, we have our main goals to provide equal, fair, common, accessible and sustainable health care for all. The Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act, which took effect on 1 October 2008, reached our goal significantly and launched a new era in health care. While there are 63 million people under general health insurance, 74 million of our citizens will be covered by general health insurance on 1/1/2012, and in this regard, our intensive work on health care and medicine and sustainable health care will continue intensively. In these nine years, of course, we didn't forget our pensioners, nor did we neglect them. During this period, inflation totalled 117 per cent, pensions were increased between 159 per cent and 648 per cent. I express it here in particular that no one ignores it. Dear lawmakers, because the budget-related issues are busy, our ministry is busy, so for the record, I had to present them quickly, not only to our dear friends in the General Assembly, but also to shed light on the future. But here, our dear friends have taken their word, touched on important matters. First of all, Mr. Idris, social security reform is a reform with a thousand challenges. So I'd like to point out here that we can't approach this reform again, that we can recycle it, that we can sacrifice it to old populistic approaches again. Secondly, again, Mr. Idris, the Kurdish issue of everything... this nation is tired of discussing it.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0052par0186	Did you figure it out? Have you solved it, Mr. Secretary? You didn't.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0050par0187	So there are no Kurds in working life. There's no such thing in our working life.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0052par0188	Of course we will.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0050par0189	At least don't mix it in here. Day and night...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0052par0190	People die in this country every day.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0053par0191	Mr. Buldan, one moment... Mr. Buldan, please...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0052par0192	People die in this geography every day.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0054par0193	Look, I'm a member of the district at this time, and I'm willing to spend the night and the day giving work to all our brothers and sisters in that area...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0052par0194	The Kurdish problem is the biggest problem in this country, this geography. You have to figure it out! You have to figure it out! We'll discuss it.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0054par0195	Together, we walk arm in arm. So please don't abuse it.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0052par0197	We're going to talk about this until you're tired of it, just so you know!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0054par0198	Sir, planes, helicopters... the government will take a helicopter, take a plane, but the patient in need of care will take his ambulance and take care of it at home. So let's not mix it up. As for severance, the matter of severance is an important issue. Whatever we're talking about in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we're talking about it in the Labour Confederacy and the Employer Confederacy. It appeals to 8 per cent. I am on the side of labor. No one can defend today's severance pay because it covers 8 per cent workers, which you call 92 per cent, which you speak and speak of as "tashion" does not have the right to severance. We say, "Come, let's take 100 percent of our workers, not 8 per cent of the Senior Compensation Fund." [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] What did you do to Van? Six thousand people are currently employed there, vaccinated, employed. I'm just saying that to emphasize that the information you have is missing, that it's wrong. Mr. Kalayci, I want you to look at the world. I just gave you the numbers. Now, look, for God's sake, there's 22.8% unemployment in Spain, you see what's happening in Europe, you see what's happening in neighbouring countries. In Turkey, unemployment is failing. What do we expect from you here? Congratulations, thank you, the government is doing a job-based growth. It's that obvious.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0055par0204	Do you believe that, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0054par0205	Then both Mr. Kalayci and Mr. Çelebi both said an important few sentences here. Mr. Çelebi said: "Don't take the curse of the nation."
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0056par0206	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0054par0207	Mr. Kalayci also said: "Alma, take off the poor man's adornment." Ya, these are beautiful...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0056par0208	Go to the van, you'll see it in Van.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0054par0209	Excuse me for a minute.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0056par0210	Let's go to the van.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0054par0211	Let's go. These are beautiful concepts, beautiful phrases, beautiful phrases, but once you've taken the curse of the nation, you haven't seen power in 50 years. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) It's that obvious. So you're not gonna take it. I couldn't agree more. I agree with that.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0057par0213	You're taking a curse so you won't be able to stand up in the next world.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0054par0214	Whoever took the curse of the nation never saw the face of power again, so we're very sensitive to it, very careful, let me put it this way. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The subject of the subcontractor is often mentioned on many platforms. Dear friends, the AK PARTY didn't bring up the subject of subcontractorship.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0058par0217	Who brought it?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0054par0218	We've had it since 1936.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0058par0219	No, it wasn't in the government, it wasn't in the public.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0054par0220	Open it, read it, open it.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0058par0221	No, not in public, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0054par0222	It's an app that's existed since 1936, sub-employee. Now, we don't need to talk about our period here, without your time. We know the demands of subcontractors today. We're trying to answer those demands, so we're going to solve your problems, about working hours. So the AK PARTY will make sure it doesn't turn into slavery again, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0059par0225	Continue to be a slave... keep working for fourteen, fifteen hours... continue to harvest...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0060par0226	Have they been slaves for ten years, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0054par0227	So, here, maybe... why is subcontractorship being spoken of now? You know what they're talking about? The level of prosperity in Turkey is rising. Maybe in the past, in the olden days, everyone was subcontractor, so no one's voice was raised. That's one thing to say. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, some expressions of poverty were used here. In 2002, relative poverty dropped by 36 per cent, currently 17.1 per cent.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0061par0230	Look at the OECD numbers.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0054par0231	Absolute poverty is reduced from 6 per cent to 1 per cent. See, numbers are exact numbers.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0062par0232	The numbers aren't the right numbers, they're shady numbers.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0061par0233	Those numbers aren't right. They don't give the right numbers.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0054par0234	Social security budget transfers are all... look, there are numbers that are constantly down on the GDP, and I can't express it because there's no time. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish you well in the budget. There's so much more to talk about, but I give you all a lot of respect, a lot of love.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0063par0239	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0064par0240	Mr. President, I want to make one thing clear.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0065par0241	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0063par0242	One moment... if the Minister is to step down, I'll listen. Here you go, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0065par0244	Mr. Minister İdris has made a mockery of Bey's name.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0063par0245	Why did he pick on you?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0065par0246	In reference to the speech made by Mr. Idris Bauken, he said something contrary to his speech. To correct our friend...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0063par0247	What did he say, Mr. Buldan, that's what I'm asking?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0065par0248	Regarding the Kurdish problem...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0066par0249	He said we were filled with a delusion to connect all problems to the Kurdish problem. It's not a mistake.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0063par0250	Now, you asked the Minister a question, you criticised the government. Mr. Secretary has responded to these conversations. Where's the teasing here, what's the taunting, I'm asking you, Mr. Buldan? What did he say, what did he say, and what did he pick on you?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0065par0251	Mr. President, İdris has mentioned the name of Bey, and has made a mistake. Two minutes to answer...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0063par0252	It's not bullying to mention his name, of course he'll mention his name. He also mentioned the names of other lawmakers.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0065par0253	According to 69, Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0067par0254	By saying that we have brought all the problems to the Kurdish problem and that we have misled the General Assembly...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0068par0255	Mr. President, let him answer for a minute!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0069par0256	Is that teasing?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0070par0257	He's a bully, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0071par0258	Of course, the General Assembly said I'd misled, so I'd like to respond.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0072par0259	Don't be coy, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0073par0260	Okay, Mr. President, okay, let him answer.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0074par0261	Here, under Article 69 of the Civil Code, I give you my word for two minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0075par0264	Thank you. Now, Mr. Secretary said in his speech that we've connected all problems to the Kurdish problem. That's right, we're linking the Kurdish problem to the main source of all problems. I've put in a lot of economic balance sheets here. I talked about the cost of taking off a fighter plane, the cost of a helicopter contract. I talked about hospitals and schools in Turkey, and I talked about the services that would be done with it so that you could compare it freely. It was your duty to present some numbers that would refute the arguments I've been defending here. Look, I'll tell you right now, as of 2:00 p.m., dozens of planes from Diyarbakır Military Airport have been launched. As these planes take off, they take off with taxes out of the pockets of workers, working people, poor people, Kurdish people, Turkish people.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0076par0269	End the terror.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0077par0270	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0075par0271	We don't want you looking out the economic window, not necessarily from the economic indicator here. Don't 50,000 people's deaths mean anything to you? To bury 50,000 young people is reason enough to bring in the source of all problems and tie them here. Other than that, you're talking about what you did in Van. What did you do about the condition of the dwelling in Van? As a government, we came here today and we made this many containers and this many temporary prefabricates in Van. We're making a clear call about this. Look, you don't even pay additional fees for employees of your Ministry in Van. You've even cut the wages outside the gross salary. You'll have to bring these and tell them here. During your ministry, 10 million people currently work in Turkey for minimum wage. And 10 million people work in an unsecured, subcontractorial way and in an uncertain way what tomorrow is going to be. On our way here, we expected you to come up with a series of arguments that would refute them rather than our misdirection of the General Assembly. I think the solution to the Kurdish problem will solve all problems, especially the economy in Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0078par0277	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Here you are, Mr. Tarhan. Please sit down, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Group President, your deputy has asked for your word. Yes, what do you want to say, Mr. Tarhan?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0079par0281	I'll make one thing clear, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0080par0282	There's bullying, sir. If you turn on the mic to the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0078par0283	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0079par0285	Mr. President, we're trying to keep a low profile on budget negotiations as our group, and we're trying to contribute to the work done. Now, when the government's more ministers than the government's deputies are on the stand, they're constantly trying to tighten the mood, and there's a policy of tension here. We've seen his samples before, and we've just witnessed them. Now, with curses, with a number of negative words, we feel that no one has the right to stretch out this atmosphere, this Grand Assembly. I want to ask them how far they're going with this tension policy. And I also want to ask the question: Today, I think it's important for workers to be enslaved, to deepen the inequality of women and to consider which right-wing governments have been running this country for 60 years, to be able to make sure that women are out of employment, to have their name destroyed, to actually sit down with them, and to take into their mouths the sayings of the curse.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0081par0289	Thank you, Mr. Tarhan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The ministers will answer the question-answer part.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0082par0292	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0081par0293	Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0082par0294	Since it was personal bullying, your minister's curse... I said that word and my words about it have been distorted by the Minister.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0081par0295	Is it taunting that he repeats what you say, Mr. Çelebi?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0082par0296	No, sir, he's misinterpreted it, so I'd like word on that.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0081par0297	I don't see any bullying, but here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0082par0298	Thank you. Mr. President, dear friends, I stand by my earlier promise. I've never said a word from this stand to be an afaki, demagoji. I've come from Van, and the citizens of Van have used the same sentence before: "We didn't vote for the AKP alone, we prayed for AKP's success for five times, but the more we see AKP's current practices, the more we curse them. I said, "Don't take away their curse." Now, before, the Dear Minister of Transport is here, here, they may have solved a lot of deadly events legally, but in conscience, has this case been solved? Are other people's hearts relieved? Now, out of here, Mr. Secretary, he's always contradicting what we're talking about. We reveal scientific data, we describe poverty in the OECD's latest report, we describe corruption, we describe unemployment, we express the recent BBC investigation from this platform; they deny them with the ultimate benefit of speech. That's not true. He says unemployment insurance is paid $4 billion here. So, where's the rest of the money? We're asking about them. How much did you put on the road? How much did you give to the other districts? You didn't just pay the unemployed people, you paid the others. You made them many promises to earn the hearts of the pensioners, and now you're making fun of them. We want everyone in this country to receive fair severance pay. In this country, we don't want to have subcontractors in Congress. That's what we're suggesting. I can't... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So you really need to contribute.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0083par0305	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0084par0306	Mr. President, the Minister of Transport used a statement like this.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0083par0307	Please, Mr. Tanal, we don't have that kind of procedure. Now, there's a question-answer process, you have the right to ask questions.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0084par0308	I'm sorry, we opened the Ray factory... Where's the Ray factory? We'd like his address.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0083par0309	It's not in order, Mr. Tanal. You enter the system, Mr. Tanal, if you ask questions.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0084par0310	But we want to get to the real information. Where did the Ray factory open? IN THE BLACKBACKBUKE... Can you give me a full address for him, for the record? The Blackbuke Iron Steel. [[Continue]] EVLET PERSONEL PRESIDENT
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0085par0348	It's Mesut Dedeoğlu who wants a word against you. Here you go, Mr. Dedeoğlu.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0086par0351	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the budgets of the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications and the Ministry of Labor and Social Security under the Central Management Budget Bill of 2012. I hereby salute your high council. The AKP government, which has made health care almost money, says it will further increase and expand its participation in medicine and medicine, which puts pharmacists in a difficult position. Pharmaceuticals suffer among government and pharmaceutical companies. The AKP's government raises the bill for higher health expenditures to pensioners, widows and orphans. In addition, one of the bleeding wounds of our society is the employment of the disabled. A significant part of Turkey's population is unfortunately made up of disabled citizens. 12.29 per cent of our country's population is trying to survive in Turkey, where about 8.5 million people are disabled. About 8 million of our country's 8.5 million disabled citizens are suffering from education today, health and employment. Many disabled citizens are also unemployed in our town of Kahramanmarash and are waiting for a solution. In public institutions and institutions, the number of disabled employees is 4 per cent, while in private sectors, the number of disabled employees is 3 per cent. We're waiting for this to be implemented. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers are understaffed and understaffed in public employment. The disabled staff in the public haven't been appointed by the AKP government in a long time. The government has already agreed to this inadequacy. Our Minister of Labour and Social Security, Mr. Çelik, has stated that the number of disabled officers in the public office is 44,189. So far, 20,829 people have been employed in public. The Minister has also admitted that the public-owned disabled staff is 23,360. We're waiting for the Minister to do what he has to do. Our wish is to appoint disabled staff available in public and private sectors as soon as possible. Let's not forget we're all a disabled candidate. Mr. President, I'd like to talk briefly about the problems of our disabled citizens' employment and their problems, and now I'd like to talk briefly about our problems with transportation. Having become an important industrial city with private sector investments, Kahramanmarash has become a blind spot due to unfinished road projects. Kahramanmarash, the province, the town, the village and village roads that contribute to Turkey's economy during each period, is having problems with its connections. Today, unfortunately, Kahramanmarash has significant problems with the transportation of neighbouring provinces. Among Heromarash's road problems, the path of Heromarash-Gone hasn't been finished in ten years. Many dents cause fatal traffic accidents. Heromarash-Gaziantep connection path. The heromarash-Monday-Moonicerit road. Kahramanmarash-Elbistan Road, Ekinöze Road, Andirın-Azusun Road and Kahramanmarash districts, cities and village roads asphalt studies. As with the transportation of the road, Kahramanmarash is also suffering from air and railway transportation. Our Kahramanmarash province needs a regional airport, which has been unable to meet flights regularly and at appropriate hours with propeller planes and insufficient flights. The implementation of a high-speed train project on the Ankara-Heromaraş route will contribute substantially to the city. I hereby ask that the budget be a blessing for our country and our nation, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0087par0363	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu. Congressmans, the talks on the tenth round are complete. Now, you will be asked and answered for 20 minutes. I read the names of the first 20 MPs entering the system: Mr. Erdem, Mr. Special, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Karaahmetoğlu, Mr. Varlı, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Akar, Mr. Topçu, Mr. Akçay, Mr. Erdoğan, Mr. Moroglu, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Yılmaz, Mr. Çetin, Mr. Dedeoğlu and Mr. Yüksel. Your Grace, please.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0088par0368	Thank you, Mr. President. My questions are for our Minister of Transport. Minister, what will happen to Elazığ Ağe Bridge? The Charcohan Bridge between Elazig and Malatya is still a one-way trip. Are you going to open this bridge as a two-way trip? Do you agree with the scientific opinion that the Charcohan Bridge is not resistant to earthquakes? Why are there no direct flights to important centres such as Adana, Antalya, Izmir, about Elazig Airport? Will you increase the number of flights to Elazig-Ankara and Istanbul? Will you build a cargo center at the airport? Won't you need new terminal buildings, not even half of the terminal buildings you've built in the provinces of Batman, Erzincan, Sivas, with the capacity to travel to Elazığ? Another question, the government...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0089par0374	Thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0090par0376	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is Mr. Faruk Çelik. Mr. Secretary, when your Ministry's budget is being discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission, I took the promise and pointed out the drug crisis that was coming up on that day, just like this, I'm reporting that if it's not taken care of, the news of our citizens who died in the earthquake would be able to add sugar pills, insulin, cancer medicine, and organ transplant drugs to the news of children who died in the next few days if they didn't have to take precautions. There's a serious problem with these medicine pencils. The drug crisis is at the door. I told you. You said you'd settle the matter in a few days. There has been no change in the attitude of the pharmaceutical industry since then, and they continue to challenge the government and bankrupt the pharmacist. In the Radical newspaper two days ago, a full page on the front page reported a drug crisis 16 days later. The problem is not solved, daily news is broadcast on TVs and newspapers, with patients bringing insulin from Rhodes and patients waiting for medicine with truckers on the outside. What do you intend to do about the solution to the problem?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0091par0380	Thank you. Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0092par0382	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to the Minister of Transport. Madam Secretary, you've come to Sivas, before the elections. You laid the foundation for a concrete travers factory with the Ministry of Transport to co-operate a private sector. It's been eight months, nothing's been done more than basic. Even if it was already over, it was a concrete travers factory where a total of 50-60 workers would work. According to the Court report, 1,530,000 B-70 travers were purchased between 2006 and 2010. There's a concrete travers factory in Sivas, and in Afyon, which produces a type B-58 concrete travers. With a small renovation, they were able to produce concrete traverses of the same quality, but these factories were put into a rudimentary state, and these traverss were purchased from the private sector. About 75m euros, by the way, from the private sector...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0093par0387	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0094par0389	Thank you, Mr. President. My first questions to Mr. Steel. Mr. Steel, who will perform the duties of your Ministry's Executive Board, which has been closed under the law? What about the officers on this board? Two: When will the staff issue of temporary workers, members of the 4/C, and those under Law 5393 be resolved? Have the promises of this been forgotten? 1) What is the final state of the Kütahya-Cavdarhisar-Gediz-Abide-Simav divided road? When will construction begin? 2) What is the status of Project Bursa-Simav Road? Last question: why do Ankara-Izmir speed trains and highway projects not pass through Kütahya headquarters? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0095par0398	Thank you. Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0096par0400	Our Minister of Transport: The Egribel Tunnel Project is promised by members of the pre-election ruling party, which will facilitate access to Erzincan and Sivas. Is the Curribel Tunnel project, tender or production in your ministry's target programme in 2012? In addition, will Giresun's province benefit from the Quick Train Project? In recent days, the children's profile of Darwin and evolutionary sites have been filtered in accordance with what principle this Council has identified, and as of yesterday, the filter has been removed? In the same process, why was it not filtered when information against this theory was shared under the name "evolution" trick? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0097par0403	Thank you. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0098par0405	Minister, I'm too old. I don't have a salary, I don't have money to pay, I don't have medicine, I can't go to a doctor, you don't pay me, you don't pay me. But I've paid the government a premium for years. Give me my right, give me my social security, don't expect me to retire. I'm a citizen of this country. Second, you haven't said a word. I wonder if you've forgotten. We consoled these people for years. I wonder if you've ever said a word to these people again. Again, Mr. Secretary, there were no subcontractors in public, and you cleared the way for that. You've cleared the way for this, Mr. Secretary, not in the state. Will you stop using subcontractors in the government? You haven't said a word about severance here. People are waiting. And we've lost 50% of our women working for the last ten years. Why is that, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0099par0410	Thank you. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0100par0412	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister of Transport: The expansion of these Adana-Karastone and ovaries has been going on for many years, but it's never been finished. When do you plan to end these roads? So let's not get ahead of ourselves by saying it's being done, but give us a date. Because the population of these counties is in summer -- the population of each of our districts -- is up to 100,000. There's a very busy road trail. This area needs to be completed as soon as possible. Please, we need a clear answer on this. Second: We can't see Adana on this fast train network. Adana is one of Turkey's most important cities. In your rule, it became the 1st in unemployment, and we had a province that received at least a share of the investments. I want to know why there's no Adana. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0101par0416	Thank you. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0102par0418	Thank you, Mr. President. You know, according to 5510, the working woman has the right to be born in debt, Mr. Secretary. Why is it not recognized for those who work for the BUG-KUR, or their own reputation and account? That's my first question. My second question: As with this military debt, we think it would be more appropriate not to have a pre-insurance requirement, as well as a birth loan, we think it would be more appropriate. Do you have any work on this? I have two questions for our Minister of Transport: As in many places in Turkey, serious and mortal accidents have also increased with the construction of double roads between Yahten-Muğla headquarters. The lack of service routes here is a problem. Do we have any work there? And when are the two double routes to beden-milas with Mugla-Fethiye? Is he on the program? Thank you very much.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0103par0424	Thank you. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0104par0426	Minister, the work of the Köseköy-İstanbul Line of Ankara-İstanbul High Speed Train Project is about to begin today. During these studies, the Adapazari-Istanbul suburb line will be closed for 33 months. Hundreds of students, workers, officers, are traveling on the Izmit-Istanbul line alone every day as a way and a way back. These trips are $8 by train, 24 by bus. Question 1: How will these costs be afforded? Question 2: From the village of Cartepe-Grandderbent-Shirinsulhiye, 30 people take the 6 a.m. train to Tuzla to work at shipyards. Based on this example, how will Izmit provide transportation for hundreds of citizens outside the centre? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0105par0430	Thank you. Mr. Topcu...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0106par0432	Thank you, Mr. President. Our first question is to the Minister of Labor. Do you find the statement that Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc will make the collective agreement with Officer-Sen? What's with the union discrimination? Our other questions are for the Minister of Transport. When are you going to save the mover's shop from asking for a high-priced document? Our next question: when will the YPK decision be carried out on aviation compensation paid to air control workers? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0107par0437	Thank you. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0108par0439	My question, Mr. Minister of Transport, is that you boast of making thousands of miles of double roads, but you haven't finished the Salihli-Gölmarmara-Akhasar and Akhisar-Kyrktree-Soma roads in nine years. When are you going to finish these roads? And what is the stage of your Ankara-Izmir fast train work and highway work on the İzmir-Manisa-Balayesir-Bussa-Istanbul line? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0107par0441	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0109par0443	Thank you very much for all our friends who ask all the questions. First of all, regulations have been issued regarding the filling of this staff, which has become 23.360 in the public disability staff this coming year, and I want to create the necessary test environment, and I want to say that these purchases will take place in 2012. I also want to stress that there is a proportional increase in the number of 10 per cent officers during our time, while the employment of disabled people has a 360 per cent increase in public employment. There were some numbers given about the unionisation rate, which I have already responded to, saying that the numbers are not true, and that the figures are not true, and that I have already answered these issues because of the general information expressed here by İdris Bey, which is 10 million subcontractors, 10 million employees. The unionisation rate is now 8.9, not 5.9 per cent, according to SGK data. I want to thank Ozgur Bey for bringing up the issue of the drug crisis. As you know, for three years, we, the government, established a global budget that included 2010-2011-2012. In this global budget, there has been a 1.1 billion valuation over the two-year period. We've come together with the industry, and we've made some assessments to the industry that this inoculation should not exist, that this figure on the deals should be tolerated by them. I'd like to point out the point where we've come to the conclusion that we've come together last night with the sector, especially in order to make sure that things like heart, cancer, sugar, insulin, diabetes, and diabetes don't turn into a crisis that's really critical to our patients, that there's no problem, and we've reached the point where we've reached an end to our assessment of whether we've been able to remove and increase prices in about 350 medicines in a day or two days. I would also like to point out, especially regarding drug manufacturers, that there is a consensus on the reduction of the 8 per cent VAT, which is applied in terms of the sector at 18 per cent, to 8 per cent, and that will take effect within December. It's also very important that the pharmacists are sensitive. And that's the question that we're going to make the necessary arrangements in the notification to repair the stock damage and the victims. As for other questions, the administrative audit... in our ministry, as you know, the district managers have been shut down, the area managers have been shut down, the work and the business institution have been converted into county managers. Thus, the service to the citizen in his place has been carried out in all our provinces, a very appropriate arrangement for the service of the Employment Institution. In this sense, a single review of this union was transformed into a Business Investigation Board form because they would work in the same field, combining 38 inspectors and investigators from the ISKUR, and 18 inspectors from the Ministry's Investigation. Of course, Business Investigation will supervise this issue, but the Ministry will be able to use its authority if it is for public audits, investigations, and senior executives. The charter staff is in the municipalities. And that's something that comes along a lot. I didn't have time to mention either the 4/B/B/B or the contracts in the municipalities. Friends, our Staff Law number 657 has changed 668 times from 65 to this day 657, 668 times. That's why I'm saying it's old. We need to deal with this staff regime together. We'll take it with relevant social parties, or I did it, I did it, and our work with understanding of what I know has never been about any law. The work we will do on 657 is also the work we will do using this dialogue mechanism. Mr. Aslanoglu, everyone is covered by public health insurance. After January 1, 2012, everyone is covered by public health insurance. As of now, there is no shortage of general health. All of our citizens are either paying bonuses, green cards, right now, or, as of January 1st, the premium will either be paid by the state, or he will pay minimum bonuses, or he will pay maximum premiums if he has the means. So our transition to general health insurance was a desirable point for years, and we did it together. You've forgotten the workshop. You're saying. We've been talking about it for days, for Christ's sake.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0110par0453	Not a word in this brochure, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0109par0454	I'm not talking, we're not talking, we're talking to all the pensioners. We're talking to the pensioners, and I signed it today, and I sent a draft bill to the Council of Ministers, and I sent it today.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0111par0456	Mr. Secretary, your time is up. Please. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0109par0458	I'm going to answer other matters in writing. Thank you. Mr. President, valuable members, time is short, and I will answer questions quickly. Mr. Enver Erdem Elazig MP. Elıziğ Airport's new terminal is bigger than the terminals he mentioned once. I've recently visited construction, and we'll open in May. It sits at 32,000 square metres, and it becomes a bigger terminal than Erzincan, and a bigger terminal than any other province. He knows the 50-year story of Elazig Airport. It was an unusable airport with half a load of planes, and we've just built a new track there, and now the number of flights is being done very intensively. There's cross flights to other cities, but not enough, and in time, companies will do it. The network's Bridge has been auctioned off, and the work begins. The Coalhan Bridge was also built, and in 2012 it will also be tendered. The question of Mr. Alim Light is: The Kütahya-Simav-Imirist division... 156km of this road was divided into 13km, and the rest of the 98km was opened as a single road. The remaining 1km is made with sathi plating. Production continues in the 44.5km area. In summary, in 2013, this road will be completely open to traffic. Kütahya-Cavdarhisar-Gediz-Simav Road, I just said that. The other one, Mr. Light, is asking about the high-speed train route and the highway route. I've said that a few times before. Geography determines the route of these roads. No way... when we try to take the roads from the route we want, then it doesn't become a highway or a high-speed train, it becomes an optional road, it becomes a local road. In that sense, whatever geography allows, these roads are made.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0112par0466	It points to Kütahya. Mr. Ecder Özdemir. When the first half of 2012 is finished, production will begin here. The railways are capable of traverses used on the B-58-type rails. This established travers factory produces a type B-70 travers. So far, we've renovated 6,500 kilometers. We're working on a 3,500-mile high-speed train line, so not only Sivas, but three or four other counties were built by the private sector, and we're getting all of them, and we still can't afford the need. I think it's a very satisfying job to have a private sector build a factory, to have employment there, and I think it shouldn't be perceived as a negative. Mr. Dedeoğlu's questions about the heromarash roads are a bit long, and I want to answer it in writing. The question of Erkan Akçay is about Salihli-Gölmarmara-Akhhisar... this 59km road continues to work at 27km, and the road will be completely finished in 2014. For your information.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0113par0471	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0114par0472	I didn't get any answers, Mr. Secretary. I will answer in writing.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit02spe0113par0474	Now, I'm going to have you read separately and vote on the parting of budgets in the tenth round, respectively. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications shall take part in the central management budget in 2012: Those who don't agree... Sustained. [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 5.295.797.400 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 02 Defense Services 639.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 04 Economic Affairs and Services 3,722,816,600 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 07 Health Services 121.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained TOPLAM 9.019.374,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. I submit to your votes that the Central Administration account of 2010 will be transferred into the chapters of the Transport Ministry's final account: Those who don't... Sustained. I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: C E T V E L (A) Those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Transport was adopted in 2010 as part of the final account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Departments of the Central Budget of 2012 will be transferred to the General Directorate of Highways: Those who don't... Sustained. 40.52 - THE GOVERNMENT OF THE CIRCLES [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 85,456,600 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 10,400,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 6,088,304.600 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 1,196,800 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 6,185,358,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 825,471000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 5,302,858,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 56,519000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Capital Profits 550,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 6,185,358,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The General Directorate of Highways was adopted as part of the central budget in 2012. I'd like to submit to your votes to the section of the central management account for 2010: Those who don't... Sustained. (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L Those who accept the CECAN (A) ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The General Directorate of Highways 2010 has been adopted into parts of its final account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Management budget of 2012 will be transferred into the chapters of the Information Technologies and Communications Agency: Those who don't... Sustained. 40.02 - THE INVESTIGATION AND INTERVIEW [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 123,094,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 03 Public Order and Security Services 25.500,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 04 Economic Affairs and Services 1,193,406,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained TOPLAM 1,342,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Information Technologies and Communication Agency adopted parts of the central management budget in 2012. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,215,360,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 126,640.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 1,342,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Information Technologies and Communications Agency adopted parts of the central budget of 2012. Information Technologies and Communications Agency, I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2010 be transferred to its final accounts: Those who don't... Sustained. (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L (A) Those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Information Technologies and Communications Agency was adopted as part of the central management account in 2010. Undersecretary of Maritime Affairs, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration of 2010 be transferred to its chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L (A) Those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Undersecretary of Maritime was adopted in 2010 as part of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Civil Aeronautics General Directorate will be transferred to the central management budget in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 40.49.............................................................................................................................. 1. ▪ Civil Aviation General Directorate Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 2.904,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 415,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 14.33,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 17.672,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Civil Aviation General Directorate was adopted in 2012 as part of the central management budget. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 35,981.000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 27.019.000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 63,000,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Civil Aviation General Directorate of 2010's final account of central management will be transferred into the sections of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L (A) Those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Civil Aviation General Directorate of 2010 has been adopted into parts of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Labour and Social Security shall take part in the central management budget in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 18 - WORKING AND SOCIAL SECURITY 1. ▪ Ministry of Labor and Social Security 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 56,931,300 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 16.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,450,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 04 Economic Affairs and Services 322,428,200 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 09 Education Services 150,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 10 Social Security and Social Services 31,170,897,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained TOPLAM 31.551.963,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Labour and Social Security was adopted in 2012 as part of the central management budget. The Ministry of Labor and Social Security in 2010, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ The Ministry of Labor and Social Security Final Account for Central Management 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L Those who accept the CECAN (A) ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Labour and Social Security was adopted in 2010 as part of the final account of central management. I would like to submit to your votes that the President of the Association for Occupational Qualification shall take part in the central management budget of 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 40.50,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, 1. ▪ National Management Budget for 2012 as President of the Occupational Qualification Board [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 5.777,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 04 Economic Affairs and Services 2,439.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained TOPLAM 8.216,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the Employment Association was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 526,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 12,474,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 13,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I would like to submit to your votes that the President of the Office of Occupational Qualification shall be transferred into the chapters of the central management account in 2010: Those who don't... Sustained. (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L (A) Those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The chairmanship of the Office of Occupational Qualification was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2010. I submit to your votes that Turkey and the Middle East Amme Administration Institute take part in the central management budget in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 40.07,....................................................................................................................... 1. ▪ Turkey and Middle East Amme Administration Institute Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 7.173,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 03 Public Order and Security Services 350,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 225,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 09 Education Services 2.896,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained TOPLAM 10.664,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Turkey and the Middle East Amme Administration Institute adopted parts of the central management budget in 2012. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,100,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 10.664,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit to your votes that Turkey and the Middle East Amme Administration Institute will take part in the final account of central management in 2010: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: C E T V E L Those who accept the CECAN (A) ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Turkey and the Middle East Amme Administration Institute have been adopted into parts of its final account of central management in 2010. I'd like to submit to your votes that the state staff president will be transferred to the central management budget in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 7:78 A.M. - DEVLET PERSONAL PRESIDENT 1. ▪ Central Management Budget for 2012 as President of State Staff [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 14.999,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 11,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 15,010.000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Departments of the central management budget were adopted in 2012. I submit to your votes that the state staff president's central management account of 2010 will be transferred into the section of the final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ State Chief of Staff's Final Account for Central Management 2010 I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: C E T V E L Those who accept the CECAN (A) ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The department of the central management account of 2010 has been approved. Members of the MPs, such as the General Directorate of the Highways, Information Technologies and Communication Agency, the General Directorate of Civil Aviation, the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, the Office of Occupational Qualifications, the Institute of Turkey and Middle East Amme Administration, and the Central Government budgets of 2012, and the final accounts of central management in 2010 of the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications in 2012; I wish to make sure that the Central Administration Office of the Ministry of Transportation and Maritime and Maritime was approved in 2010. Congressmans, the 10th round of talks is complete. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0113par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 37th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law for 2012 and with the Central Management Act for 2010. We will now begin the eleventh round of talks. The 11th round includes the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of Social Services and Child Welfare, the General Directorate for Family and Social Research, the General Directorate for Family and Social Research, the Women's Status General Directorate, the Ministry for Social Aid and Solidarity, the Ministry for Forest and Water Affairs, the Ministry of the Forest, the General Directorate of State Water Affairs, the General Directorate of Meteorology, the General Directorate for State Meteorological Affairs. [[Continue]] D) SOCIAL HELPING AND APPLAUSE == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man The commission and the government are in place. Members of parliament, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour must write their passwords until the end of the talks and press the promise-seeking button on the screen after introducing their fingerprints. It's for your information. In the 11th round, I read the names of the members of the group and their individuals: On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group: Nazmi Gür, Van MP, 20 minutes; Sebahat Tuncel, İstanbul MP, 20 minutes; Halil Aksoy, Ağrı MP, ten minutes. Addresses on behalf of the AK PARTI Group have been five minutes: Volcano Bozır, İstanbul MP; Emrullullah İslam; Ankara MP Mehmet Erdoğan, Gaziantep MP; Gökcen Özdoğan Enç, Antalya MP; Sermin Balık, Elazığ MP; Nusret Baytar, Rize MP; Mehmet Öturk, Hatay MP; Osman Caturci, Karabük MP; Dilek Yüksel, Tokat MP; Şenol Gürshan, Kırlareli MP. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group: Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkş, Ankara MP, 16 minutes; Ruzar Demirel, Eskişehir MP, 12 minutes; Seyfetttin Yılmaz, Adana MP, 12 minutes; Muharrem Varlı, Adana MP, ten minutes. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group: Osman Taney Korturk, İstanbul MP, 14 minutes; Ayşe Nedret Akova, Balıkesir MP, eight minutes; Candan Yüçüker, Tekirdağ MP, seven minutes; Emre Bridgelü, Tekirdağ MP, seven minutes; Tanju Özcan, Bolu MP, seven minutes; İlhan Demiröz, Bursa MP, seven minutes. On the other hand, Öznur Çalak, Malatya MP, five minutes; against Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu, Hatay MP, five minutes. The first word now is Nazmi Gür, Van MP on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Gür.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0115par0052	Mr. President, sir, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to offer you something. Now, in this question, unfortunately, we're trying to get in, we can't get in.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0113par0054	Mr. Young, we don't have that kind of procedure, please; it's about the system.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0115par0055	Look, wait a minute, sir... how come there's no sir! Now, let's not argue about this procedure... or stop this practice... because the same friends ask the same questions all the time. Look, in the general principles of the budget, a congressman can only get word. I mean, you're bringing him in on general principles.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0113par0056	They'll settle on their own, Mr. Young, please.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0115par0057	Mr. President, wait a minute, I'm just saying, honey.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0113par0058	No, Mr. Young, why wait a minute? I started it, you...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0115par0059	I'm talking to you! I'm just saying!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0113par0060	Mr. Young, please...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0115par0061	I want something from you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0113par0062	No, I...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0115par0063	According to the Civil Code...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0113par0064	...I gave my word to the Congressman. I promised you, you can't stop here.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0115par0065	No, sir, let's settle this at this stage.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0113par0066	You will be respectful.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0115par0067	I want a formal debate.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0113par0068	We're not gonna learn from you how to run this place.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0115par0069	No, sir, I want a formal discussion.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0113par0070	Sit down, please!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0115par0071	Run this coven properly!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0113par0072	You guys behave properly.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0115par0073	Run it properly!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0116par0074	Against the President, please... please...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0115par0075	Let the President be respectful!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0117par0076	Are you doing a show here?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0115par0077	Let the president be respectful! When the congressman says something here...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0117par0078	I promised Mr. Gür, you can't interrupt here...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0115par0079	Be respectful here, respectful.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0117par0080	...you're stepping out of your seat and interfering.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0115par0081	When a congressman raises his hand here, promise me he'll tell you what's wrong with him. You're doing it wrong.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0117par0082	I'm not going to learn from you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0115par0083	Find out and come.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0117par0084	That's what I do.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0115par0085	Find out and come here.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0117par0086	You can't teach anyone. And you won't get anywhere yelling!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0115par0087	Learn to run this fucking coven!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0117par0088	Please sit down.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0115par0089	What kind of president is that? We want a word here, sir, and he's turning his nose the other way! Why are you making that nose up there?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0117par0090	You can't stop the congressman on his way to the stand, he won't speak for you. Here you go, Mr. Gür.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0118par0092	But you're abusing rights!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0119par0093	You have to care about the congressman, you have to listen to the congressman when he gets out of here. Why are you sitting there?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0117par0094	Mr. Gür, come in.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0120par0095	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express the views of the Peace and Democracy Party on the State Department's 2012 budget. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, first of all, I would like to point out that domestic and foreign policy are not independent and should be considered as a whole. That's basically my speech. The most concrete example of this, as you know, happened in the Van earthquake, so a meaningless national pride about how domestic policy affects foreign policy, did not accept international aid for the first 24 hours, and since it did not accept it, Turkey, especially these international search and rescue aid, perhaps hundreds of our citizens lost their lives under the rubble. As in domestic politics, Turkey has shown a particularly security-oriented approach to foreign politics. Security is, of course, the responsibility of every state to its citizens, but the security perspective of the AKP government is absolutely not true as a BDP. In short, we strongly criticise the policy of suppressing Kurds, who are the main elements of the Republic of Turkey, and monitoring all voices that oppose the government in and out of the government, and the fact that almost all opposition voices are being put in prisons. The same approach is carried out not only as domestically but also as a diseased form of relationship abroad. In exchange for international arms or trade agreements, the implementation of police pressure against Kurds' associations and institutions of the state, which will be subject to the agreement, has revealed a very unfair and damaging situation. Pressures on Kurds in countries such as Italy, Germany, France are used as part of military and economic agreements with Turkey, as an element of negotiation. As the Wikileaks documents show, all of you are now fully aware of what bargains were made in Denmark for the ban of Roj TV. On the other hand, in the progress reports of the European Union, we have all witnessed where the special efforts of the Minister for the European Union and its team are, in particular, in connection with the Kurdish issue and the KCK case. It is not enough that Kurdish associations are tried to be criminalized by the AKP government in Europe, but it is a way for us to label the social projects run by European-based foundations and associations -- in their own words by Mr. Prime Minister Erdogan, with BDP municipalities. Once again, I would like to emphasize that those who do not adopt the same ideas or lifestyles as the AKP, in political life, in social areas, in the media, in short, not only in Turkey, but also outside Turkey's borders, the state has an interventionist attitude to isolate opposition in all layers of social life. Socialists, Alevis and journalists, mainly Kurdish people, have been placed on the target of the AKP government. Dear lawmakers, our goal as BDP is to criticize this approach and to warn the international public not to support this totalitarian and monotheistic approach.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0121par0103	Mr. President, could you give me a hand with that hum?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0120par0104	Against the arguments by the AKP government that there is an advanced democracy in Turkey and that the borders of freedom are expanded, we reveal statistics. Statistics don't lie unless they're playing numbers. If we look at OECD, the World Bank, or the United Nations reports, we see the reality of Turkey's democracy in a simpler way, contrary to the claims of the media. According to the annual report of the Organization of Journalists Without Borders, among the world's countries, Turkey has ranked 138 percent in the ranking of freedom of the press. In 2002, Turkey was ranked 99. It is clear here that there is no freedom of the press in Turkey. If there is talk of a country whose number of arrested journalists is 66, it is also natural that Turkey is at the top of its external ranking. In the Human Development Report, published on November 2, 2011 by the United Nations Development Organization, Turkey was only able to find its position in the 92nd place between 187 countries and the region. In the 2002 report, Turkey ranked 85th between 173 countries and the region. Turkey's level of real development is based on this research data because imports and export volumes are not the only thing that people need -- because it does not include areas such as nutrition, education, democracy and social security. If only Turkey's richest 5% had been accounted for, Turkey might have found its place in the higher ranks. According to the World Economic Forum's annual Global Gender Inequality Report, in central Switzerland, Turkey ranked 122°th among 135 countries as of 2011. He was number 126 in 2010. According to the detailed ranking of the report, Turkey ranked 130/th in the women's participation in the economy, 89/th in women's-men's equality, and Turkey ranked 82 (82) on the number of women in parliament, and the women's state minister ranked 99/th in the ranking. As it turns out from these reports, the only thing Turkey can rank as top of the women's ranks is violence against her, I'm afraid. On the other hand, according to OECD (OECD) 2008 data -- which is the latest available statistics -- Turkey is the worst-cased country among the OECD countries, with the mortality rate of 17/1,000 baby deaths. So Turkey has a baby mortality rate that is more than three times the 4.6th average of OECD. The value given to women, health and youth in Turkey is to have at least 3 children. If it is imposed, it is clear that Turkey will worsen in infant mortality rates. What number is Turkey on the issue of weapons? There is a statistic that will please the militants if asked. According to statistics published by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, Turkey took the 17th place in 2009, just between the total volume of $15.6 billion and 1504 states. However, according to unofficial data in 2010-2011, Turkey probably deserves to be among the top five countries in the world in terms of military spending, weapons purchases, operational spending, military personnel costs and so on. In short, Turkey finds stability in arming. The concept of security-axis domestic and foreign policy is hardly consistent with the zero problem policy with the neighbours. With these ongoing policies, tension policies, I think we'll soon have zero neighbors. In that regard, Mr. Secretary, I think he would love to be a minister in New Zealand, because his closest neighbour is Australia, and in a country like this, I think I would love to be a foreign minister, too. This approach, however, seems normal to us now, given the presence of an unstable and pragmatist AKP government. Finally, the statistics of the ECHR cases are a fact that as of October 31, 2011, 153,850 cases -- a total of 153,850 cases in the ECHM -- were shared by Russia and Turkey as a result. Let's give you the numbers right away: Russia takes first place with 41,000 cases and 26 per cent, while our country takes second place in the ECHR, Turkey takes second place, 16.800 cases and 10.9 per cent. Compared to the population rate, Turkey is still the first. On the other hand, Turkey is ahead by far, despite a large population rate in Russia, only in violation of freedom of expression cases. As we look at the worldwide research of the Associated Press News Agency, we can see more clearly how many citizens have been locked up in prisons in Turkey as part of the alleged fight against terrorism. To begin with, the length of imprisonment and the scope of terror crimes in Turkey conflict with the universal right to freedom of expression. Therefore, almost half of 35,117 people who have been arrested or convicted since 2001 have been in Turkey on charges of terrorism. This number is increasing day by day. We're talking about students who march in Turkey, unionists who favor labour, Kurds who defend their identity, leftists who try to preach their voice, writers who can criticize, journalists who see the facts and do objective news, a Turkish prison for years on the charges of walking workers and fighting real intellectuals. Almost all those who oppose the AKP will be put in prisons. I'll have to ask you now. What politician or citizen can express that Turkey could be an example of advanced democracy or a model in the Middle East? Here, we just told you a little bit of Turkey's democracy report card. Perhaps it would be ridiculous to claim that Turkey is an advanced democratic country with this report card. Unfortunately, as representatives of the Foreign Ministry and AKP politicians, we see it as a lack of seriousness as we, the BDP, that Turkey introduces it as an interstitarian ship, or the island of democracy, at international talks or conferences. If Turkey really wants to be an island of stability in its geography, it must first find solutions to its own problems. A Turkey struggling with its own problems cannot be expected to make a positive contribution in the Middle East, the Mediterranean, the Balkans and the Caucasus. For example, in such a deep and historical problem between Israel and Palestine, a country that has a principle and can make us accept it on both sides, a country that can establish its strong democracy, or a country that struggles with its internal problems, such as Turkey, can gain only that confidence by raising democracy and truly living standards. Therefore, dear friends, we think that to contribute to the solution in this geography, Turkey should have strong, priority not security, but a strong democracy. From this point of view, it seems to us that Turkey's recent involvement in Syrian affairs has been extremely dangerous. It seems the Sunni Arabs in Syria are already being supported so that the Kurds in Syria will not have a self-government model like the ones in Iraq. A Syrian policy created by taking into account the internal balances in Turkey increases the risk that Syria could lead to civil war, and it is inevitable that this danger will reflect negatively on the entire Middle East. Therefore, we advise decision-making individuals who are guiding Turkey's foreign policy not to lead the Middle East into a new Ottoman adventure, considering the experience from history. Dear lawmakers, we see past approaches, such as neo Ottomanism, communityism or Turanism, are reflected in Turkey's foreign policy. We shouldn't interfere in other countries' internal affairs at all, because we've given them the right to interfere in our internal affairs as well as in ours. Dear friends, we also criticize the fact that Turkmen are seen as leverage against Kurds in the region by trying to organize Turkmen, who live in Iraq and are identified by Turkish official officials as members. So on the one hand, Syria's direct intervention in the internal affairs of Iraq, on the other hand, is unacceptable to Turkey. In a statement pointing to ethnic and blood relations, interference in a country's domestic affairs will pave the way for Turkey's internal affairs, and therefore Turkey's most fundamental problem, the Kurdish problem, is now an international problem. Others intervene, scratch, and confront you. Clearly, the Kurdish problem in Turkey has gained an international dimension politically and diplomatically, and the main reason for this is denial and racism policies. Another geography reflected in the foreign policy of Turkey is Cyprus. We all know that Cypriot literature and Northern Cyprus are governed from Turkey's embassy in Nicosia, and therefore, given the demographic structure of Cyprus, it is clear that Turkish Cypriot youth have emigrated abroad, especially because of the economic and political constraint policies of Turkish Cypriots, and have been replaced by the cheap labor force in Turkey. Again, in terms of intimacy, we need to ask the question: What rights do Turkish governments have had for the Turkish population in Cyprus since the 1960s? It's a measure, dear friends. Now these and such questions need to be asked and discussed. We should say no to domestic and foreign policy based on Turkish ethnicity, which is central to militant policies and state security. We must stop the military mentality of this country, which has so far been ruled by military coups, of domestic and foreign policy. Deliberate lawmakers have begun to play an increasingly blocking role in Turkey's integration into the European Union with the understanding that the AKP government is resisting change in its essence. We would like to stress in particular that Mr. Erdogan has not shown a willing stance on the implementation of the European Union's accession talks since 2002 and on the implementation of reforms. A complete make-up policy has been activated, given the appearance of progress in symbolic steps. For nine years, all we've seen is a civilian oligarchy structure being built. We see that another status quo understanding is being developed by the AKP against a system that is already a statusist. At first, the HSYK entered control of the AKP under the name of the law reform. Holdings closely related to the AKP as part of the transition to the free market economy have been granted risk-free investment opportunities. Privatisations have been laid to the ground for workers to pledge allegiance to the bosses. These developments were created as an excuse for the implementation of the European Union law. Other than that, the scope of the Anti-Terror Law in 2006 was expanded under the name of the legal regulations in line with the EU. And that ended freedom of opinion. Dear friends, we strongly condemn the criminalization of acts, civil acts, protests, such as freedom of thought and organization, demonstrations and demonstrations. Prosecutors have initiated a method of punishment by corroding anyone who may or may not have been thought of in prison for years. In short, meeting these incredible legal scandals that we've encountered in these recent years after the reform packages of integration to the EU has made us pessimistic about Turkey's democratisation. Moreover, while Turkey is waiting for its integration into the EU, we are faced with a truly surprising conclusion, as the EU has begun to adapt to Turkey. In particular, it is possible to understand that the countries of the European Union attack the institutions and politicians of Kurds in their own country. Dear lawmakers, given the responsibilities and powers of the State Department, we argue that a foreign policy should be formed that all citizens can adopt. Foreign policy cannot only be viewed as the instrument of a political party or the centre of information. In the process of determining foreign policy on any subject, we argue that at least the parties in parliament should be consulted, debated, and planned. We think the whole country's representations and interests are at stake here. So we propose that we all discuss our international representation, our basic interests together, and that we should plan it together. Therefore, the State Department must operate the decision-making mechanism with a more involved and pluralistic approach. For example, neither political parties nor Malatians have been consulted in setting up the system in Malatya, which is referred to as the fuze shield. Will the AKP government account for the destruction of Malatya's people if the worst happens? Just a few days ago, Iranian authorities made it clear that the first target for a possible Iranian attack was the bases in Malatya. Dear friends, we believe that the Foreign Ministry, especially internationally, should give much more information to both parliament and parties in parliament. My speech was definitely longer, but I'm running out of time. But what kind of foreign policy do we want? It is the will of all of us that a foreign ministry based on the State Department and our Minister's people, who observes universal values, who is peaceful, who favours dialogue, which is based on the brotherhood of the peoples, operates in Turkey. I salute Parliament with love and respect.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0122par0134	Thank you, Mr. Gür. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Sebahat Tunnel is the second speaker. Here you are, Mr. Tuncel.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0123par0138	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group regarding the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. I salute you all. Before we present our views on the ministry's budget, I'd like to underline two points. Budget policies that are sensitive to gender equality are of great importance in ensuring the equality of men and women. Women's organisations thus express their demands each year before the start of budget debates. Until today, these members of Parliament have not heard or wanted to hear the women's voices. Everyone knows that this year the budget is not prepared with an approach based on gender equality. We're approaching the end of budget talks, and we've seen it very clearly in these discussions. This budget is a budget that is incomplete and half of society is prepared without consideration. How much better will this budget be for the community, and we are carrying a question mark. Twelve European countries took action in 2003, agreeing to a gender-sensitive budget. I hope that Turkey will take a step ahead of the next budget talks and hear us women's voices. Members of parliament, the second point I want to point out is that women participate in political life in Turkey. Women's participation in politics ranked 134 · Global Voices among 189 countries. Only 14 percent of this Parliament, or 550 MPs, are 78. The situation in the 2009 local elections is no different from the situation in parliament. There are 26 women mayors, 2,877 male mayors, and only 0.9 percent of women mayors. Only 7 per cent of top bureaucratic executives are men, while only 7 per cent are women. While this is the painting, our two women who are members of this Parliament today, our Şırnak MP, Mr Selma Irmak and Mardin MP Mr. Gülser Yıldırım, are being held in prison, despite being elected by the will of the people. As victims of TMK, they are in prison as if they were a political hostage. Not just our lawmakers, but one of them is old now, two of whom are both in office at this time, along with three women mayors, including about 500 political women, including women in prison, and women in politics. Congressmans, when you think about women's participation in politics in Turkey, we think it's important to demonstrate once again why women are less involved in politics. Rather than overcome the obstacles to women's policy, it is a pity that Parliament is left to watch these women be pushed out of politics. Unfortunately, neither our Minister nor other officials have made any statement against operations under the name ▪KCK (KCK) so far. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers we're discussing their budget with are the department of the department of the Ministry of the State of the United States, where the government is in a state of emergency. The Ministry includes 14 service units, including Family and Community Services, Child Services, Women's Status, Retarded and Older Services, the General Office of Social Services. The AKP is very keen to pass a bag of laws. We saw that last semester. Apparently, this bag is going to be a good result of the law, and he's tried out for a bag of departmental services. The fact that the government combines very important problem areas in a single ministry gives us important data on how serious policies it creates about these areas, how important it is for women, children, the problems of disabled people and social policy to be revealed. The AKP's government gathers all these social communities under the same roof and gives the community a message: Women, children, elderly people are not the subject of the disabled society. The woman is essential to the continuation of the healthy family, children, elderly, disabled people who are in need of help. The ministry's name, the name of this so-called Ministry of Women, the name of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, tells a lot about what will happen to the ministry. This ministry, as you can see from its name, means nothing more than the continuation of traditional, taught roles of femininity and manhood, which is the product of male-dominant mentality, and the continued roles of femininity that we've been taught, and the fact that women are treated as a part of the family, not as an individual in society, means that the inequality of women-men is guaranteed by the state. Members of parliament, the traditional family, as a prototype of the state, emerges as a policy of violence through women of power, hierarchy and judgment. We believe that the traditional family structure can be developed by a democratic family model, where family members can become individuals, without feeling responsible for themselves. But the family that AKP has predicted here is a traditional family model. The Minister's approach, which he refers to as "live in the state," represents this very traditional approach during budget talks. But it's not about the state, it's about the community. The state must be transformed into an organisation that will allow society to live in better conditions, democratic, fair and peaceful conditions, and its mandate must be limited by that. But today's approach is a waste of individuality to society, society to the state. If there is no optimal balance between these things, then what we're going through in the end will be nothing more than chaos and chaos. We don't see that mentality now, actually, since the 16th century. We can take it all the way to the beginning of 5,000 years of male dominant mentality. In the 16th century, it reminds us of Thomas More's philosophy, which is an important thinker and whose utopia is a sense of equality. In the Utopia of Equality, the woman is treated outside the public domain and attributed traditional roles to the woman. According to More, only women can be in the public domain when it comes to the continuity and peace of the state. This is the 21st century, and unfortunately, the same mentality continues. On the one hand, the government states that it has done a lot for women, while it is the same ministry that has rebuilt the traditional business department, such as caring for older women, caring for children, cleaning up, working in social assistance. Once again, on behalf of women, we remind you that no study that does not base on the equality of men and women has a chance of success. First, we have to develop equality policies that will transform all institutions of the state, believing that there is equality between men and women, with the awareness that equality is the basis of freedom, democracy, justice, and peace. We have to first start the equality policies under this roof because in fact, the male mentality, the male dominant mentality, is being maintained under this roof. Members of lawmakers, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy has been projecting a state-sponsored mindset that has been reinventing the traditional roles of women and women's women's women's organisations as part of the family, not as an individual, but as a part of the family, to ensure the safety of the state of this language, which has seen women's struggles to make women's struggles visible and make them more active in all areas of social life. Minister Fatma Şahin is a man who comes from the women's arms and strives to fight women and knows the limits of what the ministry can do. Mr. Secretary, the government may not know about male surrogates, but you know how important women's struggle is. Therefore, we feel that the construction of women's work under an independent ministry is very important for the changing of women's lives, and we recommend that you remove the women's ministry from this bag without delay and establish the ministry of women and equality. We as BDP people -- not just women -- will support you, I want to express it. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Mr. President, lawmakers, according to TİK data, 12 per cent of the population of Turkey is made up of disabled people, and that's about 9 million populations. More comprehensive and serious policies must be created so that the disabled, who make up an important part of the population, can participate in all areas of life without barriers. In this context, on May 3, 2008, it is important to meet the requirements of the United Nations Convention on Disabled Rights, which was adopted by 20 countries and Turkey is a party. In dealing with disabled persons, there is an exclusion, aberrant mentality. Unfortunately, the life of the disabled will not change, unless the approach that sees disabled as poor, helpless people changes. At times, there is a lot of talk about disabled citizens on this bench, but there is never a job that will make the lives of disabled ones easier. For example, we have a disabled congressman here. Our handicapped congressman can't even get into this room with his pants on. We've even failed at that, we haven't even been able to carry out that arrangement. If we can't do it here, we'll be in the street! You have to see how this reflects. The disabled have a request, and I want to tell you once again on this bench: we don't want projects, we just want 655 TL salary that you give us every three months, not three months, but once a month. I hope the Ministry takes the necessary steps and gives $655 a month to our disabled citizens. Congressmans, one of these ministries is related to children. Of course, in the last chapter, Mr. Minister, our minister said that in every problem, the BDP people are expressing the Kurdish problem. Believe me, members of parliament, we, the BDP, are not so eager to talk about the Kurdish problem at all times, but this is a fact of the country. There's a conflict here, people are losing their lives. So, today, a 15-year-old boy -- I would like to remind Mr. Minister -- Fırat Izgin set his own body on fire in Mardin, and a note came down: I'm doing it for my people. I want to be the voice of peace. But how did the fire of rebellion begin in Tunisia, in the world, dear friends? When a boy, a boy, a college graduate, set his own body on fire for his own work, he set fire to a revolution there, and a process called "Arab Spring" began in the Middle East. Let us leave, and what process has begun in Greece? Against inequality, there was a 17-year-old boy killed, there was a riot, but in our country, dear friends, children are killed, and children are not even named. They're being declared terrorists in a very general capacity, which is already being done. It's a pity that this Parliament is stuck on our children's shoulders because it can't solve the Kurdish problem. Perhaps because they can't throw their own anger with stones, perhaps because they can't offer their anger, they set their own body on fire. Now, who's gonna pay for this? Of course, it's up to us to assume political responsibility here. I'm not just speaking to power and opposition, but we say this from our point of view, and I say, Dear Firat, if only we could bring peace and you were alive, we should bring peace and evolution, Abu Muslüm, if you were alive, but there is no such approach here. Look, my dear friends, in 24 years in this country, the number of children killed by soldiers, police, security forces was 500, while 152 children were killed during the AKP government. One eye explains the initiative of Sen Ol. How many children have been killed so far? Here we are talking about Dersim, we are talking about the children, the missing daughters, how many children have been exiled, how many have been subjected to the policy of assimilation? So, what are we talking about now? Governors, let's take the governors of AKP's governors into their homes of compassion. So, let's take it, shall we solve this problem? Will this problem be resolved by reliving the policy of assimilation in the 21st century? As the Prime Minister said, assimilation is a crime of humanity. Thus, the common sense is that all groups must come together and address these issues as a matter of political overpowering. I think we owe it to our children. Members of parliament, on the other hand, you know that because of AKP's changes in TMK in 2006, the children entered the prison, and then some arrangements were made, but when those children came out, when they turned 18, they were arrested as terrorists again and punished for decades. We have to solve these problems, otherwise these problems will always come to our attention. Members of parliament, every individual who is not 18 should be considered as a child and despite the Convention on Child Rights, which, for whatever reason, says that all environments must be provided for the development of the child, Turkey does not comply with the requirements of this Convention. In 1992, the programme for the end of the worst conditions of child labor in the world was launched in six countries around the world, one of which is Turkey. According to the ILO Convention in 99, children have to work in the worst conditions, textile workshops, cleaning companies, or streets, despite the ban on working children under 15 years of age in Turkey. We're still in a country where there are 1 million child laborers, and 630,000 of them work under very heavy conditions. Our children, who appear to be cheap labor in times of crisis, are still employed on the street, even though our future is legally illegal. According to the Children's Comparative Report, which OECD made for the first time among the 30 member states, children in Turkey are ranked at the bottom in terms of financial situation, health and environment education, so to speak. UNICEF also warns that the number of children living on the street in Turkey is increasing day by day. The AKP government says we're building solutions to all of this, but the implementation is still having these problems. And when we look at the Ministry's budget, we see once again how seriously it's taken. The ministry's budget has been budgeted four times as much as one-quarter of the dianetite budget. There is a budget for social policies, women, youth, disability. So we wonder what kind of work will be done on this matter. Members of parliament, in the name of the Ministry and the Social Policy, the AKP government's best work in the government is to develop the alms culture under its name. The poverty rate in Turkey has not changed since 2002, but poverty benefits have increased from 20 to 30 times. Although poverty rates are about the same in the inner Anatolian and East, in the Southeast region, poverty benefits are more available to these regions than Kurds. 5 to 10 times the amount of help distributed in Central Anatolia is provided in Kurdish areas. During the AKP period, daily food benefits have increased by 11 times, the amount of coal distributed has tripled, the number of families buying coal has increased by 2.5 times as much as the cost of conditional cash transfers. However, despite the increase of all these benefits, poverty rates do not change, which is a remarkable point. With the taxpayer's own taxes, a culture of alms has actually been created, and that does not solve problems. It's just that during election times, it's actually a study of getting votes. This can be given as the best example of my lesson. The governorate had distributed washing machines close to AKP power. And then he didn't get enough votes there, so we heard from the press that he had those white things reassembled. Mr. President, the women's employment problem is one of Turkey's biggest problems. According to July 2010 statistics, Turkey is far behind in the average 62 per cent of women's employment rate and in the European Union countries. Women's participation in the labour force is also around 30%. The unemployment rate has risen to 11 per cent of all Turkey, while women are 13 per cent. When we look at women's employment rates, we see that the painting has not changed since 2002. More specifically, the employment rate of women with children in Turkey drops below 20 per cent according to the OECD Women's Report. The average rate, however, is around 45% in European Union countries. So if you're a woman with a child, the chances of you being in a working life are one fifth. Even so, women who can join the labor force are paid less than men. Again, studies show that women are more of a social worker for free. Despite the AKP government's failures in 2010, it has been an important step, despite its lack of the phrase "Augmentation of Women's Employment and Equality of Opportunity." However, as the figures show, women's employment has not improved. On the contrary, in 2002, women's unemployment rate increased from 9.4 per cent to 13 per cent in 2010. Turkey is a country that has signed agreements 100, 111, 122 and 142 that promote the equality of women and promote women's employment, but has failed in women's employment. This bloated wealth in the Turkish economy, based on hot money, high interest, high debt, and inflated and inflated at any moment ready to explode, makes the poor richer, the poor richer. In 2010, the difference between rich and poor was 8.5 times higher, while in 2011, these 14 floors increased. Congressmans, we're in the 16th economic order, but we're in the 1st place on inequality, so no one should forget that. Another problem with women is actually violence against women. A lot of work has been done on the violence against this woman. It's important that the Istanbul Convention is signed, but it's not enough. We all have to fight more organized, more efficient battles as women. I'm out of time. I had a few things to say, but in conclusion, a budget that doesn't depend on equality between men and women, unfortunately the public will not have a budget; just, in fact, some small groups will have a budget that feeds from here. In that sense, we still thank our fellow workers for their hard work, but how good it would be for our people, we have doubts about that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0124par0177	Thank you. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, the third speaker is Halil Aksoy, Ağrı MP. Here you go, Mr. Aksoy.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0125par0181	Mr. President, I have been promised to express the opinion of the Peace and Democracy Party on the budget of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs in 2012. I salute the General Assembly. Valuable MPs, the system in Turkey, also continues its segregation and single approach to different religions, languages, ethnic structures, sects and cultures, unfortunately, to cultural and natural beings. The wealth of our country, which has a radical historical culture and natural potential, is yet to be preserved because, above all, in Turkey, culture and nature are not developed enough, not developed enough. Natural fields and cultural heritage have been destroyed over the years, due to the practices of governments, and some of them have been pursued by certain Rant circles. In European countries, history, culture and nature are divided by 1 per cent of budgets for projects to protect their assets, but in our country, there is not much of it. This shows our interest in protecting cultural and natural beings, making it a state policy. Let us not forget that the protection of these creatures and historical sites, which are the common heritage of all mankind, and the transfer of them to future generations, are primarily the common responsibility of states and mankind. Dear lawmakers, proof that Turkey does not care about the environment, historical structures and nature is the destruction of thousands of hectares of forests. In a period when global warming has increased, greenhouse gas emissions have reached a extreme stage, and environmental problems are facing every extent, it is unacceptable for thousands of hectares of forests to be burned each year and some of them to be divided into tourist areas. The most unacceptable among them is that most of the forests in Kurdish geography are being deliberately burned by security forces in the name of the country's safety. These forest fires have only been watched by the government and sometimes even encouraged. Sadly, in the culture of violence and conflict near 30 years, forests were burned, water dried, all kinds of plants were destroyed, and many animals were extinct. And I'm going to leave you to appreciate how much human health has been destroyed in the turning upside down of this ecological balance. Dear lawmakers, natural and cultural beings in Turkey are unfortunately being looted and destroyed because of government policies. Our air, our land, our water, and our agricultural products are rapidly polluted. This looting and destruction is sometimes carried out by the government itself, and sometimes by an insensitive attitude. Millions of trees, thousands of hectares of forests, are sacrificed only for golf courses, hotels, villas, new roads. The crazy project thought of in Istanbul is also a project from this sentence. Even more painful is that a servant of God comes out of the government and its institutions, saying nothing or saying nothing against these massacres. The environments that fight against natural massacres are blocked by the government itself, labeled "terrorism." The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs does nothing but bury its head in the sand. While the people of the region are trying to protect their natural existence, the public is being interfered with, and our people are being blocked. Look, we gave our Minister of Forest and Water a written question a few days ago. We asked how many hectares of forest were damaged in these fires and how many of them were created consciously or unconsciously by security forces. Gayricid was somehow prepared, and the answer was, well, we didn't get any answers. However, what happened during this period -- which we think was a lot more than that -- was reportedly damaged in the 810 forest fires by 12.926 hectares of forest. 43 per cent of forest fires are said to have been caused by negligence and carelessness, while 31 per cent are said to be due to unknown (unknown) causes. Yeah, that's exactly what it's called, unknown. Don't worry, we know or we're guessing who started these forest fires and how. If you can't help but say that it was caused by the operations of the security forces, by the bombs fired from the planes, from the helicopters, could you take no precautions to re-forestation these burned areas? Obviously, the new Rantfields are opening here as well. Dear lawmakers, another important incident of destruction and looting in Turkey has recently taken place on the waters of the country. It has become almost forgotten or completely denied that the water of the country, which has been made money by the government, which is intended to be made into a profitable meta, is a vital entity and belongs to the public. Rivers that give life to nature and human beings, underground waters, water rights contracts, are being pursued by private companies for forty-nine years. In Bergama, in Fatsa, in Artvin, private mining companies destroy nature where they search for mines, poisoning clean water sources. Meanwhile, in cities, citizens' access to water is increasingly difficult. In many parts of Turkey today -- most of which are big cities -- it cannot drink water flowing from citizen taps, including our Ankara province. The public is forced to buy drinkable water at high prices from water companies. Therefore, companies that sell new bottled water are produced every day. This has reached an extent in our country that the world's bottled water consumption increases by 7 per cent each year, while Turkey has increased by about 20 per cent. The one who has no money for water does not have access to clean water. We also read and listen every day, experts warn: It is also known that these waters are not healthy, especially these waters that some companies offer to the market are toxic. Unfortunately, as the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Forestry and Water are very inadequate in their control over this issue, it seems to be of little interest to them. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the biggest threats and threats on our natural and cultural assets is the hydropower plants that are undoubtedly intended to be made. As it is known, the number of HES projects planned to be carried out throughout Turkey is around 2,500. The construction of 700 of them in the world is planned in the East Black Sea, one of the 200 ecological areas of protection around the world, as part of its unique natural wealth, endemic vegetation and geological structure, historical and geographical location. There are 24 projects in the Twin Valley, one of the 200 valleys of the world, in terms of economic plants and species alone. While part of the valleys planned for the HES projects were declared a tourist zone, many of them were declared a site and some of them were in the national park. Over the past few years, Dersim has been threatened with destruction by the 85km long Munzur Valley, its environment, eight dams, and the hydropower plant project. If these plants are built, the nature of Dersim will also change. In addition, Hasankeyf, the most important witness and cultural heritage left from Mesopotamian civilization, was sacrificed to these policies. The Ilisu Dam and the 10,000-year-old cultural heritage, historically and culturally unappreciated, are wanted to drown in this artificial water. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are taking their share of the massacre in the region, and Hakkari and Şırnak are taking their share. A new water line is wanted in Hakkari and Şırnak. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So there are security dams being built, and on the one hand, there is a way to separate Kurds from the Kurds in Iraq and Iran, and on the other hand, they want to be ripped off with water. We didn't have time. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0126par0208	Thank you, Mr. Aksoy. The first speaker on behalf of the AK PARTI Group is Volcano Bozır, İstanbul MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Bozır.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0127par0212	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express the opinion of the EC PARTY on the State Department budget. Turkey wants to establish and maintain a relationship with its neighbours and countries in its region and the world, without problems and friendship. This policy will be carried out with determination, even if there are negative developments in its neighbours or region due to reasons that do not originate from Turkey. Our country's power now dictates not only that we are involved in decision-making mechanisms in regional and global issues, but also that we play a leading role in them. Participation in the European Union is a state policy, and Turkey's strategic goal remains a priority item of our agenda. However, the paradigm has changed, and membership in the EU for Turkey is no longer just an economic opportunity for membership. Turkey maintains this relationship to reach the standards of the European Union in all areas and to provide a better future for its people. I don't think it's the luxury of the European Union to recruit such a strong Turkish Union that has reached those standards and closed all negotiating chapters in Ankara until the end of 2013. The historic change process, called the Arab Spring, is also ranked at the top of our country's foreign policy agenda, as is the case throughout the world. Turkey believes that the peace, stability and prosperity of the countries and the entire region depend on taking necessary steps towards democratisation in accordance with the demands of the public. Our country considers this irreversible process to be carried out peacefully without bloodshed or violence. Turkey is a source of inspiration and hope for countries and people in the region. In Syria, where we have the longest land border, with our long history, cultural and human ties, the Syrian administration has not taken the necessary steps in the face of democracy, freedom and human rights, despite all our efforts, and has tried to suppress these demands at gunpoint. As a result, we have no confidence in the Syrian administration. In the process, Turkey is closely and closely monitoring developments and stands by the Syrian people. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are living in the most powerful period in the Republic's history with the economy of Turkey, political stability, democracy, the role of an international actor in the world and in its region. It took me thirty-eight and a half years in the profession to experience for myself where Turkey came from. If I remember, in the late 1970s, when there was no fuel for cars and heating in Turkey, there was no way I could remember the days when 85,000 tons of Ata Tankeri had been filled by Iraq as much as our Central Bank had transferred money and the amount that it had transferred. I remember days when Turkey was not scheduled for days in Iraq to ask for a $40m loan that it desperately needed for Turkey. In the early 80s, I also remember the days when, thanks to the contributions and mercy of my OECD Turkey consortium, we were able to survive with $800 million a year.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0128par0220	Ali Babacana, and Yasar Beşış, were not insulted at all.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0127par0221	The years when Luxembourg took us for $1 million in loans, when Turkish citizens could go abroad once in three years due to economic difficulties, when they didn't have enough paint to print passport wallets in the mints, when they couldn't give us passports for a long time, when we couldn't drink coffee for a few years because coffee couldn't be imported.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0129par0222	Have you forgotten the horse deal, Mr. Volcano?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0127par0223	... I also remember two hours a night of television coverage, and the same time the power went out, and sometimes the water didn't run for two or three weeks, so we shaved with mineral water, and the morning shift at the State Department after the September 12th military coup, when a major was doing a roll call and haircut check. It is our duty to remember where we have come from and to be proud and grateful for our position at the level we have reached today.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0130par0225	They're not even bidding on us in Iraq, you're talking about the bidding, the money!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0127par0226	It's never been easy getting to this point, guys. After Turkey's transition into an economy, where free enterprise and free market mechanisms are the main element, during the AK PARTY administrations, from classical democracy to liberal democracy...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0130par0227	Are they bidding on TPAO in Iraq?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0127par0228	... It's been through solid steps, but with great effort. As a process of political transformation continues in our region, it has been possible for our country to continue to grow stronger while the world's greatest economic crisis in history continues. At such a pace, Turkey will surely reach a painting that we will be even more proud of in 2023. Yours truly. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0131par0232	Thank you, Mr. Bozır. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the second speaker is Emrullah Business Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Business.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0132par0236	Mr. President, Congressmans, I have made a commitment to explain the opinion of the EC PARTY Group regarding the State Department budget. I salute your high council. The external policy vision of the EC PARTY is based on a realistic understanding of Turkey's historical buildup, geopolitical position, and the new dynamics of the globalized world. Our government has set a balance between national and universal values that have turned globalization into opportunity, and Turkey has gone to a paradigm change to make Turkey one of the leading nations of the 21st century. This new paradigm left behind the conflicting perspective and fears of the cold war period, showing that it is possible to address developments in our region and in the world with a positive approach.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0133par0238	What would you do if it were you during the Cold War?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0132par0239	The vision of proactive and positive foreign policy created by the AK PARTY governments has earned both the favor of our people and the appreciation of our neighbors and allies. We're implementing a normalisation process in foreign policy as well as in domestic policy. We're making peace with our own history and geography. We now view our history and geography as a strategic value, which has previously been called a great burden and problem. Turkey can't be indifferent to events surrounding it as well as its geostrategic position and view of the region and world events. In critical matters, Turkey's policies and initiatives are closely monitored and appreciated by all actors. The issues our country is involved with from a visionary point of view are now unresolved without Turkey.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0133par0240	Syria's solved, Armenia's solved, Iraq's solved, Iran's solved, Cyprus's solved, everything's solved.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0132par0241	The Foreign Ministry budget, which was 435 million in 2002, was raised to 1 billion 171 million euros in 2011, and the difference is 735 million. In 2003, we had 93 embassies active, while in 2011, we raised the number of embassies to 114. The State Department is working, folks. Our number of consuls active in 2003 was 60 and 71 in 2011. As you know, we have been nominated for the 2009-2010 temporary membership of the United Nations Security Council, and we have been elected to a record vote by taking the vote of 151 of the 191 countries. Therefore, we will continue to be a candidate for the 2015-2016 period, one of the countries that governs the world's economy and politics. We've had a lot of mediation in our time. We were active in the Syrian-Israel indirect talks. We made an effort to resolve the conflict between Syria and Iraq. We were active in Syria-Lubnan, Syria-Suudi Arabia, Iran's nuclear programme, the government crises in Lebanon. We created the Neighboring Lands Platform to Iraq. Turkey-Afganistan-Pakistan, we have started and continue the three-way process. Turkey-Bosna-Herzegovina-Serbia, we are continuing the three-way consulting mechanism. A visa agreement was reached with 38 countries starting on 1 January 2003. There have been many countries in which we have formed a strategic collaborative council. In 2008, in Iraq, in 2009, we formed strategic business units with Syria, Pakistan, followed by Lebanon, Greece, Azerbaijan, Russia, Brazil, and many other countries. Other than that, we celebrated the 20th year of Turkish republics' independence in Ankara in October. The Council for Co-operation of Turkish Language-speaking Countries was implemented on 15-16 September 2010 in İstanbul with the 10th Turkish-speaking Summit. Ambassador Halil Akincı is also the Secretary General of the Secretariat of the Turkish Council. We've got a Turkish diplomat elected to the CEC Secretary General. We also got a scientist, Professor Mahmut Erol Kılıç, to be elected as secretary general of the CSI. There are criticisms of our foreign policy from time to time, and statements are being used that we are being instructed to do so. I wish that these unfortunate statements would never repeat themselves under this roof. Don't forget that the government of the Republic of Turkey takes orders from nowhere and from no focus, and I commend you for the very knowledge of it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In particular, what is called the Arab Spring was mentioned here as the fall of Tunisia, the fall of Cairo. When was the collapse of dictatorships perceived as a fall? I think this should be very well reviewed. We've been watching...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0134par0249	Bring democracy to Saudi Arabia, hopefully, and Saudi Arabia needs democracy.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0132par0250	I can't answer you because my time is up, but I hope I can answer it some other time.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0135par0251	If you had the answer, you would.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0132par0252	I wish our budget would be a blessing, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0136par0254	Thank you, Mr. Business. Mehmet Erdogan, third speaker on behalf of the AK PARTI Group, is a member of Gaziantep. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0137par0258	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy of the Central Management Budget Act of 2012. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, we all believe it is our duty to create social policies so that we can create social development, social peace, that we can embrace every part of society with women, men, young people, old people, disabled people. Social sharing, social content and social integration are as important as economic development in a country. Without them, there's no peace and quiet. We AK PARTY governments have stated on every platform that we care deeply about social policies. That's what we've shown by turning the Ministry of Family and Social Policy into an executive ministry. It is part of the ministry's primary duties to protect children from all kinds of neglect and abuse, prevent discrimination against women, allow the disabled and the elderly to participate in social life due to all kinds of obstacles and neglect, while martyrs and martyrs are not victims of our veterans. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy, along with research into the family, will develop projects, and will take protective, preventive measures at the point of a strong family formation. Another thing I want to bring to your attention in the 2012 Central Management Budget Bill is that the first budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy is 8 billion 841m 713 thousand Turkish liras. We see that our executive ministry has now increased its budget by 46 percent. Dear MPs, I'd like to tell you about the Family and Social Support Programme, which we believe is very important and will be implemented in 2012. As part of this programme, each family will be a social worker, just as each family has a family physician, because if there is a disabled mother, if there is a disabled father, or if there is violence within the family, the problem cannot be solved. For the solution, the social worker will always be there for that family. In addition, the children's child care department is completely restructured as part of other projects. A care system has now been developed that will leave the ward system and support our children as well as the environment of love. Dear lawmakers, we all know that love is the beginning of everything. Unloved support remains limited. It's not enough to feed the children or satisfy the need for shelter. Surely, a child should feel the love he yearns for, the warmth of his family. In what we call the homes of love, which are being implemented again, six children have been placed in the home system at the most. Another model is children's homes. At most, five children were developed in a rented apartment, with nursing mothers at the head, both their physical needs and education needs were met, and a major work model was developed for 24 hours. Every child has the right to live in a warm home. The victims of crime, the children of crime, the victims of crime, and the victims of crime, the monitoring center models will be increased in a single center, and the children and women who have been abused by what we call a mirrored room will not be asked, "What have you experienced?" They will not be allowed to live again. We have been registered with the disability Act, which has the right to live, has the right to education, and has the right to health care. The main indicator of social development is how much you can take care of the disabled, the needy, the orphan. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I ask that the 2012 budget be accepted, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0138par0274	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. AK PARTI Group fourth speaker, Gökçen Özdoğan Enç, Antalya MP. Here you go, Mr. Enç.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0139par0278	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the AK PARTY Group on the financial budget of our Ministry of Family and Social Policy in 2012. I salute your high council. Our government, who sees the state as a public service tool, is working for the welfare and happiness of all our citizens, not for a class, a sex, a part of it. Our Ministry of Family and Social Policy began its ministry as the executive ministry of KH3, released on 8 June 2011. The 2011 budget grants of institutions that belong to the Ministry of Family and Social Policy totalled 6 billion 15 million, 624,000 euros, while the 2012 budget was planned for 8 billion 841m 713 grand. One of the essentials of our democracy is the practice of revolution in our governments in order for the understanding of a social state to become operational. I'd like to share some of these actions with you as long as I can: For the first time in 2004, we allowed the equality of men and women to enter the Constitution. We have opened 183 lines that provide advice for women and children who have been subjected to violence, as well as the 144 Social Insurance Line to convey immediately the problems of our poor and needy citizens. With arrangements in the social security field, we helped our women borrow time they couldn't work because of the birth, and we increased their maternity leave. As a government, we have carried out a great revolution of mentality. Come on, we had Project Girls School meet with nearly 350,000 girls. We're at the Mother and Daughter School Project, and we've taught over 560,000 women to read and write. In order to increase the employment of women and young people, we were able to gradually pay insurance premiums by the state for five years with an incentive package prepared in 2008. In 2005, we took out the Law for the disabled. In the case of a disabled person being cared for at home -- we care very much about this place -- we started paying maintenance fees for two net minimum wage if a net minimum wage is placed in an institution. We opened the way for the disabled mother to retire five years early. We've provided employment for our disabled. The number of disabled people working with public institutions and private sectors increased to 52,172 in 2002, while the number increased by more than 3 floors in 2010. In 2010, the amendment made in the Constitution was a constitutional guarantee that all additional regulations for protecting the rights of women, children, disabled, elderly, martyrs, widows, orphans, and veterans are not contrary to the principle of equality. So we opened the way for positive discrimination. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in addition to this in the coming process, I hope we will implement the Family and Social Support Programme, whose short name is ASDEC, for the protection of family integrity and continuity. Again, with the General Directorate for Social Aid and Solidarity and the TOKI cooperation, we will begin the construction of 100,000 main studio-type housing facilities per month with a $100 euro in installments. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] ▪ Segregation against women is worse than racism. We signed the Council of Europe Convention on violence and domestic violence against women with understanding on 11 May 2011, known as the Istanbul Convention on fighting them. On 24 November 2011, the first country in the Republic of Turkey to legalise this contract against women internationally and with a binding attribute to domestic violence was the government of the Republic of Turkey, which legalized it in Law No. 6251 and Parliament on 24 November 2011. In addition to this contract, we are making a broad assessment of the draft bill on the protection of women and family members from violence in order to ensure the equality of gender and prevent violence, allowing all NGOs, bars, universities to participate, hopefully in the coming days to be passed by law. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish our budget to be a blessing to our nation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0140par0294	Thank you, Mr Enç. Now, on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, Elizig MP Sermin Balık. Here you go, Mr. Fish.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0141par0298	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to announce my views on the EC PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy in 2012. On this occasion, at the beginning of my words, I salute the esteemed members of our House. The most important institution in society is undoubtedly family. An investment in the family is an investment in the nation and the future. Maintaining, training, developing the integrity of the family, the basis of many social problems, will also lead to the development of our country and the growth of healthy generations. For this reason, we find that all institutions and services in the field of social aid and services, with the goal of providing faster, efficient and efficient services to our people, are gathered under the roof of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, an executive ministry, along with the 61st government. I'd like to talk about the importance of the family, the role of the family in social problems, and our family counselling centers and community centers. In 2002, 55,469 people took advantage of our 59 community centers, while as of October 2011, 75,452 people took advantage of our 97 community centers. One of the most remarkable of our 2012 projects is the Family Social Support Programme. With this program, each family will be given a social support expert, so that protective, preventive measures can be implemented and interfered at the first point of origin. The most important individuals in our society are, of course, our children, our essentials. From that point of view, we've reconstructed child services at Child Protective Services. First of all, we've moved away from the ward system for our children. As a mother, I realize that each child is hungry for love, that they have different qualities, that each needs special attention. With this known act, we've moved on to the homes of love and children's homes. Love houses offer our children the opportunity to live in villa-type private homes in the garden. In 328 loving homes, 2,590 children were taken into custody. One of our children, Burak, is a one-year-old baby, who's moved from the ward system at Child Protective Services to the warmth of love in these homes. Maybe we can't give her mother's warmth, mother's smell, but we can give her the warmth of love and compassion in our hearts with her child - rearing sisters. Another home is children's homes. Between the neighborhoods, the home temperature is the maximum of six children living in apartments, both physical and emotional and educational needs, based on 24-hour service. In 419 children's homes, 2,379 of our children were taken into care and care, just like our Engin son. The Engin now has a home and an address. We want to help our children with these projects, first and foremost, by taking firm steps towards becoming healthy individuals. As a pilot, I'd also like to talk about the children's monitoring centers in Yenimahalle, Ankara. Our children, who are victims of crime or forced to commit crime, unfortunately, have to explain their experiences over and over again, and each time they have to relive the same trauma. When we thought about it as human and conscientious, we felt the need to change this system, and we developed the mirrored room system. The boy in the mirror tells the story only once, and the testimony the boy made in the mirror room is valid in court. We want to implement this project under the name of the Women's Watch Center to prevent our women from experiencing the same trauma over and over again. Some of our families only leave their children to Child Protective Services because of financial incompetence. The support project is being carried out in the family. The ministry is here to support the family and help care for their children along with the family. In 2002, 12,075 people took advantage of the situation, while in 2011, it tripled and reached 32,348 people. The amount of payment per person has been increased from 61 TL to 451 TL. The way to strengthen her as an individual is to strengthen her financially. In order to achieve that, we have developed a model where the five-year share of the employer will be paid by the state. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As I put an end to my words, I wish you all the best of the 2012 budget to our government, to our nation.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0142par0311	Thank you, Mr. Fish. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the sixth speaker is Nusret Bayraktar, Rize MP. Here you go, Mr. Flagtar.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0143par0315	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of our ministry of forest and waterworks in 2012. On this occasion, I salute you all. The Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs continues its activities as responsible for the preservation and best assessment of our country's water resources, forests and, of course, wealth. May I remind you that our country is one of the few countries in the world where the forest is low and the forest is growing. The largest farming campaign began in 2008, and in three years 820 million saplings were met with land. Turkey has been listed as the third country since China and India, which have done most of the gardening work in the world. A total of 2.3 million hectares of foresting have been conducted within the framework of the Erosion Control Expedition Action Plan, covering 2008-2012. Our forest presence reached 21.6 million hectares today at 20.2 million hectares in 1972, so it has increased 1.4 million hectares since 1972. Wood's wealth has been raised from 936 million cubic metres to 1.4 billion cubic metres. Despite all of this, unfortunately, our country is in a dangerous area of forest fires, but we are pleased to observe that it has become the most successful country in the fight against forest fires. We've come to the position of a country in need of help. For example, support has been provided for the fires in Syria, Georgia, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, Greece, Russia, Israel and Albania, as well as training for staff from several countries. In 2002, our 33-year-old national parks increased to 41. Our number of natural parks was 17 to 181. In addition, the AK PARTI ruling introduced our country to urban forests, a total of 101 urban forests have been established in nine years, including 71 districts and 30 boroughs, and places where our people can breathe comfortably. In our forests and areas 2/b to resolve the property and conflict problems our citizens have been waiting for for for for many years, the cadastro transactions that have not been done so far have been completed by 95 percent, and the rest have been given speed. Thus, the solution to the ongoing property issues between citizens and the state has been brought to a happy end.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0144par0321	You're taking away the citizen's deed.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0143par0322	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the important tasks of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs -- water is life -- is the protection of water resources and the necessary measures for sustainable use. In this context, the Basin protection action plans have been put into action, and the necessary work is going on quickly, and I can't get into it. State Water Affairs opened nine facilities in three years prior to the EC PARTI government, while 1,395 facilities were completed and offered to public service during our nine-year mandate. China's Adnan Menderes Dam and the largest of the Aegean, the Dalaman Akköru Dam, the 6th largest dam in Turkey, which won the highest threshold in Europe, the 6th highest dam in Europe, and the highest in the category of the concrete body, which was compressed by the cylinder. Muratlı has opened a total of 160 new dams in various provinces of Turkey, such as Borakka. The drinking water problem of all our cities has been solved, with 47 drinking water projects that have been completed and run in our time, 33 million citizens have been given 3.3 billion cubic metres of drinking water per year. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as in the whole world, our country's renewable energy resources are of great importance. In our country's green energy sources, compared with wind and solar energy, hydroelectric energy production is the most technically suitable. IN addition to the direct and cheapest way to produce the energy of the area, the HESECs provide positive benefits in nature. Because of the import of coal and natural gas, there is a loss of about $25 billion a year, with HES projects preventing $25 billion from going outside. I'm running out of time, so I can't get into the details.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0145par0330	Thank you, Mr. Flagtar.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0143par0331	I congratulate Mr. Secretary and his team, who, despite all of this, are continuing these activities.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0145par0332	Please, Mr. Flagtar, please.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0143par0333	Let's not end our love for the tree and the forest. I specifically want everyone to plant a tree.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0145par0334	Mr. Flagtar, please.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0143par0335	I wish you all the best in our budget.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0145par0337	On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the seventh speaker is Mehmet Önturk, Hatay MP. Here you go, Mr. Önturk.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0146par0340	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group to discuss the budget of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. I hereby salute the High Council and our beloved nation. Mr. President, dear friends, I'd like to point out first. Our country is not a water-rich country. The countries we can count as water-rich are countries with 10,000 cubic metres per person and over water. The total amount of available water in our country is 112 billion cubic metres. If we divide that into our population, our annual amount of water per person is 1,500 cubic meters. Our country can use 40 per cent of its water potential, which is 112 billion cubic metres. I'd like to talk a little bit about investments made by the DSI during our time in power. From 2000 to 2002, nine facilities were presented by the DSI to the service of our nation, while 1,111 facilities were presented to the service of our nation, the last one to be inaugurated by our Prime Minister on 11/11/2011. Among these facilities, the Ermenek Dam is the 6th of Europe, the 21st of the world, and the highest dam in our country. China's Adnan Menderes Dam, a hundred and sixty-one-year-old dream of the Aegean, is the first in its class in Europe and the fifth in the world. Dalaman Akkörü Dam is the largest in the Aegean, Turkey's 6th largest dam. Dear friends, our country's economically diluted land is 8.5 million hectares, and the area watered by the beginning of 2011 is 5.5 million hectares. The area watered by the DSI is 3,216 million hectares, and by the end of 2015, our goal is to reach 4.66 million hectares. If we open this up a little bit more, we aim to water another 850,000 hectares and increase the total area to 6.35 million hectares. As I've just said, our country is not a water-rich country. In the belief that we should make large savings in agricultural irrigation, which is the area where we most use our water, the iptidai irrigation systems were abandoned after 2003 and switched to a pressurized pipe system. If we put that as a ratio, when those in construction are completed, there will be 21 percent in the classical order, 8 percent in the channel, 71% in the pipe system. Dear friends, let's talk about Gap, DAP, and KOP. In the last 30 years, only 272,697 hectares of land have been watered by the GAP Action Plan, which was put into effect by our Prime Minister in 2008, which will be watered by 1,88,000 hectares in five years, adding 785 hectares. By the end of 2013, 30 per cent of the irrigation projects will be completed and there will be no economic waterable areas left in energy at 74 per cent and 12 per cent in irrigation. Once the GAP Action Plan is complete, the annual irrigation benefit will be $2.2 billion, energy benefit $4 billion, drinking water benefit $410 billion, contribution to the national economy will be $6.61 billion. The project will also provide direct employment for 1,270,000 people. As part of the KOP, the waters flowing to the Mediterranean will be reversed, and by means of the Blue Tunnel, 1,100,000 hectares of land will be watered when the fertility plan is completed. Again, dear friends, the bin Pond Project in a thousand days will store 1.6 billion cubic metres of water, watering 300,000 hectares, employment and 900 million dollars in revenues. As a result, our investments continue in this area, as well as in all areas to provide our country's water resources, ecological and biological wealth, which will be the most affected by global warming, in the best possible way, to provide our people with the most efficient way to serve, economically watered land, drink and use. I hereby wish the 2012 budget to be a blessing, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0147par0349	Thank you, Mr. Önturk. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the 8th speaker is Osman Coffeeci, Karabuk MP. Here you go, Mr. Coffeeman.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0148par0353	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Director-General of the Forest in 2012. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, global warming and climate change are at the beginning of the most important environmental disasters that threaten our world. The most important measures that need to be taken are the protection and development of forests. Although many international processes have been launched around the world, unfortunately, deforestation has been unstoppable, and 10 million hectares of forest continue to disappear every year around the world. In our country, 27 percent of the forests are covered with forests, 99 percent of the forests belong to the state. Meri legislation has been assigned to the Forest General Directorate to protect, operate, and develop forests. The Forest General Directorate has been trying to do its best for a hundred and seventy-two years. Congressmans, our country is a Mediterranean country. Therefore, during the summer months, forest fires, the biggest threat to our forests, emerge as an inevitable fact. Sometimes these fires threaten not forests, but agricultural areas and settlements, causing large losses of goods and lives. Our country has an average of 2,000 forest fires every year, with an average of 8,000 to 10,000 hectares per year. However, effective measures have taken place in recent years -- improved modern fire management systems, reinforced air fleets, renovated vehicles and equipment -- and the rapid and effective response to forest fires. As a result, the initial time of fire has been reduced from forty-six minutes to fifteen to twenty minutes, and the amount of burning space per fire has been reduced from 20 hectares to four hectares. Today, Turkey has been a great force in its region in the fight against forest fires. Today, Turkey has become able to help countries across borders and borders and export information and technology in combating forest fires. This is an improvement that should be appreciated on behalf of our country. The improved fire management systems have won Turkey's first place three times, and many countries have launched bilateral relations with our country to see these systems and use them in their country. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we owe this success to members of the dedicated, poor forest service, who see the fight against fire day and night as equivalent to the defence of the country. We owe this success to the AK PARTI governments, who have given the forest agency all kinds of support, saying that the rest of our forests are just details. We owe this success to the saintly Turkish nation who has given us trust and support. On this occasion, I give one more blessing to the martyrs. Members of parliament, there have been significant improvements in forest public relations during the EC PARTI period, forests have been removed from being restricted areas, urban forestry has been launched in Turkey for the first time and served in the service of our people. Again, for the first time in our country, the monitoring of health conditions against the emissions of our forests has been established and has been linked to the European monitoring network. Again, for the first time, the Fire-resistant Foresting Project was launched and the economy of our forest villagers was preempted. Dear MPs, we have 7 million citizens living in 21,000 forest villages in our country. 500 thousand of our citizens earn their living in forestry. They're in forest work, and they're in forest production, harvest and marketing. With the new forestry techniques developed, the forest products produced from our forests have increased by 100 percent, and the forest villager has been given more work and food. The forest peasant has not been crushed by inflation, and production prices have increased on inflation every year. In 2002, 1 cubic meter of log production was paid $27, while that amount was raised to 74 liras in 2011. In total, 250 million liras were transferred to the forest village village in 2002, while the number was increased by four times to $1.1 billion Turkish liras. Congressmans, our forests are operated using the most advanced forestry techniques in the balance of protection and use. With this confidence, Turkey has opened its forests to international certification agencies for the first time and our forests have become certified forests.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0149par0371	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0148par0372	With these feelings, I wish the Forest General's budget of 2012 to be good, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0149par0374	On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the 9th speaker is Dilek Yüksel, MP of Tokat. Here you are, Mr. Ascendant.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0150par0377	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the State Water Affairs General Directorate. I hereby salute the High Council. I'd like to thank everyone who's been working on the 2012 budget as I begin my speech. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as it is known, the State Water Affairs General Directorate is a general-budget investor who is responsible for the planning, management, development and operation of water resources in our country. As with the EC PARTY government and all other institutions, there has been a major breakthrough in the DSI, and for the first time in the institution, a period of mass openings. A total of 1035 facilities were submitted to the service of our people, including 933 facilities and 102 facilities completed in 2011. The DSI General Directorate's 2012 goals are 93 major waterworks and 365 small waterworks, 140 research wells and 240 business wells to be offered to the service of our beloved nation. China is also aimed at producing 2,495 million kilowatts of energy per year, including Deeper, Manyas and Topcham HES. About 390,000 people will be provided with approximately 89 million cubic metres of drinking water annually from 16 drinking water facilities, which will be completed in 2012. All these services have been implemented through good use of time, knowledge, and money, and a result of a great sacrifice. As a government that understands the importance of the DSI, we raised the state waterworks budget, which was $1,380,000 in 2002, to 7 billion 366m euros in 2011. Mr. President, our Prime Minister's esteemed deputies will not be left without water, towns and cities. We have delivered healthy drinking water to 89 per cent of the current villages and villages' settlements, we have built a networked drinking plant for 3,622 thirsty villages and connections, and we have renovated the drinking water plant of 33.497. With the AK PARTY power, not only our people, but our land has also been watered. From 2002 to today, we watered 1 million hectares of agricultural land with 145 new irrigation facilities. We've raised our total irrigable farmland to 5.4 million hectares. I'd like to share with you some of the activities performed by the DSI in my constituency of Tokat. A total of 37 facilities were completed between 2003 and 2011, including 29 flood control, three above ground watering, two ponds, and three pond watering. The total cost of investments made by the DSI from 2003 to 2011 is 452 million euros at 2011 prices. In addition, we began preparing to build 17 ponds in our Tokat, we reformed eight streames, and we continue to build 16. The tender for the Yaztepe Turhal Dam Project was made by the DSI General Directorate in 2011 and will be tendered at the DSI General Directorate after their project is completed. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm running out of time. There's not enough time to explain what we've done because we're competing with ourselves as a party that says our work is service, our strength, people. And we're doing damage that is equal to each other for two days. We're moving forward with our nation, with the motto of 2023 goals. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] With these feelings and thoughts, I congratulate the Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks and their work as State Water Affairs Director. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, I wish you all the best of the 2012 budget talks to the State Water Affairs General Directorate and to our country.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0151par0391	Thank you, Mr. Yüksel. Now, on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the final speaker is Senol Gürşan, the Centipede MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0152par0395	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers regarding the budget of the General Directorate of Meteorology. First of all, I salute our beloved nation and its grand delegation. The General Directorate of Meteorology is an organization in our country tasked with conducting meteorological observations, weather forecasts and meteorological early warnings, meteorology and climate change research. The Meteorological General Directorate, which serves many sectors -- especially in the airspace, naval and land routes sector -- is an organization that constantly renews and improves itself in its region to become a leader meteorology service, which serves around 90 per cent of the stability and rich product diversity in international standards. With social and economic development, industrialization, urbanization, population growth and human activities, aviation, naval, energy, habitable environment, water and agricultural foods have been increasing, giving meteorological services a separate importance to meteorology every day. In addition, many of the natural disasters are the result of heavy rains, hailing, and snow meteorological events, resulting in floods, landslides, floods, presumptions, and measures are of great importance in reducing loss of lives and property. These meteorological events and the result, of course, are the most important early warning systems of meteorological radar. In addition to six meteorological radars installed in Ankara, İstanbul, Zonguldak, Balıkesir, İzmir and Mugla, the number of radars taken into operation by Antalya and Hatay in November 2011 has already been increased to 8, while the installation of Tripoli and Samsun's radar will be completed in 2012. With the developing technology, an automatic meteorological monitoring network is being installed and modernised, and there are still 463 automated meteorological monitoring stations that are being observed. Mr. President, in the past weather reports, the eastern part of the Tracia region is very cloudy. We remember talks like rain from place to place. Or rain from week to week. These days are so far behind. The minute meteorological data, satellite and radar images, numerical predictive models, and a high-performance computer, are institutionalized to increase predictability rates. For our farmers, e-mails are given free warning on our farmers' mobile phones and the best harvest time is set for production planning. The drought is also followed by international methods. The meteorological early-warning system, which determines the risky areas that could be a forest fire, has been developed to determine risky areas that could be a forest fire, in which forest headquarters can provide necessary measures to prevent forest fires. Work continues with respected models in the world to monitor global climate change and develop predictions about our country. Radio Sound of Meteorology, which has been renewed and enriched to announce weather forecasts and early warnings to our citizens, has reached over 60 million viewers in 40 cities across the country. The broadcasts can also be monitored by the Turkish-Sat 1-C satellite and the Internet by the world. The correspondence between the developed document management system and the central and rural units is conducted electronically. This provides time, stationery, and human savings at significant rates. International education is conducted by over 100 participants from around 20 countries annually to transfer information and technical capacity to countries in the region through education. With these training and working units, important steps have been taken to become our country's regional meteorology and climate centre. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish the budget of the meteorological General Directorate and the Central Management Budget of 2012, which spends a significant portion of the meteorological budget on modernisation and the spread of automated meteorological monitoring systems, and I wish good luck to our nation and our state, and I wish all those who have gone through it. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0153par0409	Thank you, Mr. Gürshan. Now, speaking for the People's Movement Party Group, Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkeshteş, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Turkesh.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0154par0413	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation with the best of the State Department budget I'm going to discuss. It is foreign policy that the AKP government is trying to consider in its actions and that they claim to have performed largely. 12 pages are divided into the 61st Government Program, which the Prime Minister calls "Our Masterhood." On 8 July 2011, Prime Minister Erdogan announced that the foreign policy department adopted a visionary approach rather than a problem-oriented approach to international issues. Speaking on behalf of the National Movement Party Group last year, Mr. Deniz Squadron leader referred to Mr. Davutoglu's statements in the brochure "Our Foreign Policy" (U.S.) as he entered the year 2011 -- and at the same time, it was two or three days since the attack of Mavi Marmara of Israel. Speaking at the AKP group meeting right after the attack, Mr. Prime Minister said that you will all remember this, that we, as Turkey, will not let this go. Turkey is not a young, rootless state, it is not a tribal state at all. No one should try to compete with Turkey, test Turkey's patience. The more precious Turkey's friendship is, the more fierce its hostility is..... the more this conversation continues. Mr. Squadronmaster referred to another point here after stating these things, which is that your Minister, Mr. Davutoglu, is a decisive moment in the history of the region, which is our 9/11. Nothing will ever be the same again." He mentions what he said, and then he says, "Dear lawmakers, the AKP government has not been able to allow Israel to take a specific step that will satisfy Turkey in two or three days. This is from last year's minutes, Mr. Company Chief. Today, it has been five hundred and sixty-two days since this attack today when we discussed the Foreign Office's 2012 budget, but I'm afraid no progress has been made in the matters that Mr. Company Chief has pointed out last year, no positive steps have been taken.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0155par0417	The United States has new instructions, U.S.A.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0154par0418	The declarations remained in the air, and the alleged economic sanctions did not mean anything to the other side because they did not weigh the necessary weight. Dear lawmakers, there is a new law coming next week in the Parliament in France that will be considered a crime for the so-called genocide. Now, I'm hoping by referring to what I've just done, that this time, when the political power really does express its reaction to something, it should be able to chase its back and then do something to a country or follow its back. Otherwise, it should not be in the air over the years, as I've just presented in this instance. The veteran diplomats of our Foreign Ministry, as well as their knowledge and experience, have made this Ministry a prominent, prestigious institution of Turkey by their efforts over the years. Mr. Bozır just said that these things weren't done before the AKP, and Mr. Emrullah Bey mentioned it, but we don't believe it, so we believe that Foreign Affairs is a more radical institution. We also know that by the great efforts and sacrifices of these people, we know that Turkey has worked hard to get its rightful place in the international arena, and that we, the Nationalist Movement Party, see this, and because of this, we sincerely congratulate valuable foreign members, but as I've just stated, the political government -- its own era of excellence. At a time when they call it "the time," we will present to your attention what has not been done or done wrong. At this point, the political power, which has never hesitated to enter the Arab Spring game in the general trend of the world, considers itself virtually unemployable in relations with the Turkish republics for the future, as it has done nothing in the past years, and is not offended by the fact that relations are at a minimum level. We're also observing that they have no effort to improve it and make it better. The Turkish Co-operation Agency -- as you know -- has turned it into an African investment co-ordinator (Applause from MHP rows) and instead of strengthening relations with the Turkish world with serious working groups or activities, nothing is being done at funerals and meetings but representation at the minister's level. In these countries, which are our language, history, and culture together, more commercial capacities, which are expected but still uncertain from Africa, are not even remarkable by the AKP. We are not ahead of the performance of many European countries in the Balkans, and even Greece, which is in an economic crisis, is almost at a level that will compete with Turkey in order to become active in many Balkan countries. Members of parliament, the direction the AKP's government has taken with its true causes, diameter and goals in the Arab spring has not, I'm afraid, been able to achieve the level of negotiation it deserves so far under the roof of this great Parliament. I believe that while the Arab world is being ruled by monarchys or totalitarian regimes, only in North Africa, I believe there is a need to be focused on why a lasting spring does not pass on other countries as it is claimed. There are about 140 million people in the region that have been moving so far, but we need to think and talk about why a spring hasn't reached the side that has a population of 80 to 85 million people, which is still monarchy, which is still ruled by totalitarian regimes. I mean, there's a democracy coming all over the place, and we're gonna see it. Of course, the other thing is that the leaders of yesterday's spring geography and the AKP's Authority are so entwined, and while they're so close, I think it's up to you, of course, that they haven't been able to sense this spring as they come and go to those countries often. If we look briefly at our relations with these countries, which the AKP's ruling authority has focused on and worked on, Turkey is being approached by people from Iraq, central administration and regional administration. Of course, because they were hosted in Turkey, they probably said good things to pay for the diet they ate during those visits, but there's one thing I'd like to point out that when they come back, they certainly don't neglect an explanation that will hurt us. We can't stop it, so we haven't been able to stop it from happening there. There's a great deal of trouble for the Turks in Kerkuk and Musul. A systematic kidnapping is being done to the Turkmen. First it's done to businessmen, then it's done to merchants, then it's done to doctors, doctor families, kidnappings, threats, killings. Now this is being done to teachers and intellectuals, and I'm afraid there's no sound of political power, and we don't hear any attempt at it. During the 2010-2011 period, there were serious fluctuations in Turkey-Iran bilateral relations. In 2010, there was a serious intimacy between the two countries. Big visits. On May 2010, Prime Minister Erdogan made a visit to Iran, and the trilateral summit, which was co-ordinated with the Brazilian state, was held on the 13th uranium exchange. After that, Turkey and the Brazilian states voted "no" in the vote when the decision to sanction Iran was issued in the United Nations. We think there's been some kind of closeness. Even simultaneous operations were carried out against these PKK and its derivatives. After him came 2011, Turkey gave a green light to something further to be equipped with a radar base called the NATO missile shield. And Iran, of course, didn't understand where this changeling came from. Of course, I'm not going to dwell on this missile shield issue because it's been mentioned here before in the national defense, in other matters. But if they mention them to Mr. Secretary or any of the other friends from the Ministry, except for this missile... so you've detected it with radar, and you've got to do something else to stop it, so either you're going to launch a missile, or you're going to do something. Is NATO supplying these, and we're getting them from the national budget? What's going on with all this? And I believe that these should be discussed here in this great House, and that the House should be informed. Yes, another issue: there are some international organisations established in the 20th century. One of them is the United Nations, you know. The current political authority defines his position here as important. We got a temporary membership at the United Nations Security Council, okay, great. Within nine years, the conditions of our relatives living in Cyprus have not improved a step, one step. Well, you're so good at it, you're so good with countries in the world, international organizations, but why can't you do that? You don't want to do it? We need to talk about this here. Another issue is this one about Greece. In the year 2010, the Red Book changed, where the issues in the Aegean Sea were said to be no longer the cause of war in the sea, and it was said to be a significant change in Turkey. But from behind, when Rumimi Israel and a U.S. company sought oil in the 12th parcel, we mobilized the marine forces. Are you uncomfortable with this? No, I'm not, but at the same time, there's a logistical ship called Lenthal, from the U.S. 6th Fleet in Crete. When this ship sailed from Crete to the Mediterranean, Cyprus, we simultaneously stopped these movements in our marine forces. I believe this should be discussed here and cleared up. Of course, there are a lot of issues in foreign affairs, but since time is running out, I'm going to brief the government on the developments of this Arab spring, which the government loves and concentrates on very much, and then I'm going to finish talking. We've done a lot of good in this Arab spring. It started in Tunisia, in Egypt, democracy is coming... Well, I'll tell you what democracy is coming now. In the first free elections in Tunisia, Al Nahda, who had an Islamist speech, won, and it is up to the Muslim brothers. Meanwhile, in the elections held in Egypt, the representative of the Muslim brothers, Hurriyet and Justice Party, came out as the first party and received 36.6% of the valid vote. Now all that's left is Syria. We'll see what we can do there. Now, it seems, dear friends, that this Arab spring and the Great Middle East Project are falling on top of each other as parameters. In that sense, of course, I leave to your discretion the full scope of the current political power and the role of the Prime Minister here. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish the 2012 budget to be good, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0156par0438	Thank you, Mr. Turkesh. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the second speaker is Ruzar Demirel, Eskişehir MP. Here you are, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0157par0442	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy in 2012. I salute you all. And it's not just an institution to explain with economy, budget, finance, as you'll all appreciate; it's an institution that requires a broader perspective with people in its focus. But when this Ministry was established, as you know, it was established by a decree under the law, one of the ministries established by kidnapping of Parliament's will. That's why we didn't get a chance to say anything about the structure of the Ministry when the Ministry was formed. I see the budget as a chance in this sense, and I'd like to express a few ideas about the structure of the Ministry: The Justice and Development Party's ministry, which took up its tenth year in government, has been the ministry working on women's matters. He used to be the Ministry of State, now the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. The minister about the woman, the most frequently changed minister. Mr. Prime Minister says he's a master, the previous term was a co-worker, and before that, I believe he was an apprentice. So this ministry, as often as the minister has changed, has never seen a caliph and a skilled minister. I think it's because of this instability that Turkey is still in the 100th and societal equality index of the World Economic Forum, which was described this year by the World Economic Forum, in the 100th and the third-digit figures. 14th from the end in 135 countries, and at this rate, I think there's not going to be much change in 2012 either. As to why we thought nothing would change more: I watched and listened to Mr. Secretary's presentation in the budget talks. The Minister's presentation was: "Having New Year's Eve coming up, we're going to do much better. May the better days come to us. It was, in general, a naïve presentation filled with longings. So I'm afraid that some of the things that have no measurement, their goal is a conversation of round rhetoric, which is not clear, are wishful thinking, and that's why I think we can't go any further. I'd like to start with the ministry's organisation schematics: there's a General Manager under the name of the Ministry's General Directorate for Social Aids, and there's a sign on their websites regarding the mission of the General Directorate: that it lacks the basic needs of its citizens -- in its continuity -- to support our citizens with social benefits, to ensure that social benefits are effectively distributed by co-operation with their fellow members. These phrases remind us of natural disasters in general, even the Van earthquake that we experienced very soon, but in the Van earthquake, we didn't see the Ministry very active. And the reason is, because there's an institution in our state structure that deals with disasters, AFAD. There are many boards and commissions within the AFAD, and have you checked which ministries are in charge of these boards and commissions? There's the Ministry of National Defense, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Development, the Minister of Forestry, the Minister of Health, the Minister of Health, the Minister of Rediay, the Minister of Family and Social Policy. Mr. Secretary, does the government consider the Ministry of Family and Social Policy a cowboy decor? I beg of you, your Ministry is a Ministry that should be involved in these institutions and institutions as part of the mission and duty of your relevant General Directorate. So, in the government, I assume you're going to do effective pressure on this. There's another directorate in the Ministry's organizational schematic. I read his name with sadness and satire, the Department of Retarded and Older Services. Sir, it's 2011, in the 21st century, the first human rights contract of this century, the International Convention on the Rights of the disabled, and from that day even the word "Emergency" has been removed from literature. In literature, it may be an apology, but even in literature, there is no such thing as a special case of individuals. You may be curious about apologies, as far as your politics are concerned, but I think you should apologize to our very special people and please change the name of this General Directorate. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Another thing, you know, there's a phone line here that's being bragged about. I've been through the Ministry's website, there's a lot of phone lines, 155, 156, 183, there's different lines. Finally, Mr. Minister Isparta opened a phone line with the Commissioner, including Mr. Bilç. Mr. Secretary, what number will the victims, the women, the children, call? Even that's a confusion. See, everyone knows what they're saying when you say "112. " Any person with a long - term health - related job will look for 112. What number will the woman, the old, the disabled child call? Another number in every county for smiling faces? 183, 140, which one? In fact, I have no doubt about your confusion, because if you look at the Ninth Development Plan, which covers the period of the relevant political party's administration in 2007-2013, such a ministry has already not been foreseen. I mean, a ministry that's not part of the development plan. It's like a computational computer, where all of a sudden a ministry has been formed, and I'd like to read you another sentence from the Ninth Development Plan: ▪ Opportunity equality will be provided for women, young people, long-term unemployed, disabled and ex-cons who face difficulties in the labour market. Women will be facilitated to access child and other care services in order to increase their employment and employment participation. It's a very good wish, but as I said, it's a naive, pleasant wish. Because Mr. Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek has recently read a text here, the economic report of 2011. In the 2011 economic report, Mr. Lightning counted what he did as part of reducing the labor load to increase the level of employment. ▪ Opening a health centre and flexing the day care obligations - I think this stretch is not upward, it's downward. ▪ Remove the obligation to run an ex-con... I want to remind you that if you stretch out on opening health centres, you can do nothing more than say, "They died very well in the health and safety of workers. " If you stretch out the obligation to open a day care centre, you will never support women's employment. If you remove the obligation to employ an ex-con, you expose these people to social exclusion, encourage crime. To create social policy, to unite them, to integrate them, to perform social inclusion. So, regarding the ministry's workspace, if you would please consult with the Finance Minister on this matter, we will be happy as a community. Another issue is domestic violence: There is a Justice and Development Party MP who spoke before me, who has also expressed, among the Minister's goals is to send social workers into the field. But in the Minister's presentation, there was an expression that he was going to employ social workers starting with areas of immigration, and I think I remember correctly. Instead, it's not about killing flies, it's about drying swamps. It's not the migration site, it's the migration site that needs to be examined. As a matter of fact, there's a study that UPSAM is doing with TÜBİTAK, which was announced last week, and there's a question that 25 per cent of the people who participated in this study said yes. There's 25 per cent of the people who responded to the survey said: Participatory terrorist organization because of forced marriages. I think it'll be in your interest. I'd like to say a few words about the Ministry's budget. Since your ministry was established in June, I don't know when you made contact with the Treasury Department, and I don't know when you established this budget, but even after the budget was expressed, I think you know there's a 23% in inflation. So, since you don't have clear numbers on 2010-2011, so that budget schedule you're giving us, because those digits are zero, what are we talking about, what numbers did you predict 2012, and frankly, I don't understand, I don't think the economists will understand. You say your ministry budget is 8.8 billion, but when you look at it, it looks like 4.1 billion mission losses, and already half of the Ministry's budget is mission damage, sir. Of course, all of this, all of this inequality and unstable numbers, it's not very intriguing. I'd like to give you one last example before I finish my speech: well-known shelters are very current. According to Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek, there are 53 shelters in our country, but according to Mr. Ali Babacan, who spoke on the same day, I think you'll appreciate the budget situation of a cabinet that has not agreed on the numbers, which has even collected 51, or about 50 shelters properly. Of course, because of your numerical majority, this budget will pass as it came in. I specifically set an example of the shelter. We have offices in charge of the economy that can't count 50 or so shelters clearly. I'll leave you to your discretion again. Thank you. Good luck with the budget.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0158par0463	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. The third speaker for the National Movement Party Group is Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana MP. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0159par0467	Mr. President and valued lawmakers, I have made a commitment in 2012 to the budget of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs and the Director-General's budget. I salute you all. Respected lawmakers, the rapid population growth in our century, intensive industrialisation moves, global warming and climate change have brought environmental concerns to a severe stage. With these developments, an important mission has been imposed on our forests and forestry. With the experience of a hundred and seventy-two years of tradition, the Turkish forestman signed many projects of vital importance at the point of conservation, development and increased existence. I'll only share a few of these with you: Having met 50 per cent of Istanbul's need for water, the Terakos sandul wooding, the green belt treeing that surrounds Ankara, Adana Akyatan, Antalya Beek sandul wooding, Aydın Medenres basin erosion control projects, Trakya Kurudağ trees are only a few of them, but unfortunately, the Minister considers this tradition almost to be ignored by the forestkeepers and the laborers. Although nearly two-thirds of the ministry's tasks are forestry issues, although 16 per cent of the forest is separated as an exclusive water production -- hydrologic-functioning forest -- the high-level appointments have been ignored by forest rangers, the undersecretary, the 5 undersecretary, and the head of the 5 branch office were appointed environmental and water-rooted bureaucrats. Given that the minister is of water and environmental origin, the ministry is practically the water ministry. As these appointments and assignments were not enough, a bureaucrat with a degree in social sciences has been assigned to the Department of Natural Protection and National Parks, which, as clearly stated in Law 5531, is about the full extent of its duties as part of forest engineering. Mr. Secretary, haven't you found any forest engineers to perform this mission? You'll be leaving in a moment, talking about the sacrifices of the forestmen, but ignoring the forest engineers, the forest workers who made these sacrifices. We want them in practice, too. Again, in our country of 35,148 villages, 21.216 are related to the forest. One of the most important factors that threatens our forests is rural poverty. The countryside receives at least a share of national income. You shut down your Ministry of State, which has nearly half a century of experience, is very important in rural development and protection of forests. Mr. Secretary, you've given the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization authority over areas that are protected, mostly by forest parks, nature parks, nature monuments, nature preserves, wetlands. I guess you didn't think your own Ministry was enough. You created duality in the areas of authority. A number of changes were made not two months after the Ministry's establishment, under the provisions of Law No. 657. So many comfortable units have been opened and shut down, that a month later, the head of the Forest Map and Remote Perception Department, established under the Law Code No. 648, was shut down and opened another office. Again, there are 24 business managers that you shut down during your reign. As you closed these, you made the statement that because of the populist policies in the past, the number of regional managers increased to 27, the number of business managers to 241. We're shutting down 24 business managers in order to get rid of the cumbersome structure and avoid the waste of resources. You said that, and you did it in court and in every environment. What happened today, you're shutting down 24 business managers, you're opening 28 business managers? It was done in the past in the days of the 241/1 of popular policies. In what you call it, you raised the number of management managers to 244. Now, is it true what you said in 2003, or is it true what you said today? 241 big or 244 big? Mr. Secretary, even after more than six months, does it bother you that you're still busy with organizations, that you're constantly zigzag, that you can't be motivated? It seems you reap what you sow. You're passing on your savings and merits. It has been known to everyone that the appointees were made by the union close to you instead of the general managers, that the appointment was not made without registering for a union related to the Office of Staff. And if you have any knowledge of this, then the matter is graver, if you do not know. (Applause from MHP rows) To clear the way for arbitrary appointments, the National Directorate of the Forest has been removed from the appointment of technical staff and placing regulations so as not to get caught in the legal barrier based on driver's license and merit. As a result of the occupational organization's lawsuit, the Supreme Court has decided to call it off. The General Directorate of the Forest, which is not based on any objective criteria again, has been reopened and sued again. State's attorney number two. He decided to stop running the apartment. By the way, you've continued your pleasant assignments. None of the branch managers you've appointed today have taken office, and they're all on temporary duty. For God's sake, Mr. Secretary, is it so hard to get and enforce a staff code based on licenses and merits that you can obtain from your employees, provide study peace? Now, while we're destroying the savings of forestry, I'd like to mention another practice that's going to make the foresters hurt: the heart of the woodsman, the Gazi compound, the heirloom of Ataturk, is part of the Ataturk Forest Farm in the center of the capital. Applied forestry was taken by the General Directorate of the Forest in 1954 and turned into a botanical garden with the labor and knowledge of poor forestmen. There's a hundred and thirty-three kinds of plants in there. From owl to fox, there's a rich wildlife. It is a very important centre for the forestry institution, which has a hundred and seventy-two years of history, as well as the lungs of the forest and natural park city. Now, there's no telling what they're gonna do with this place. They're setting up the infrastructure for this. Now, I'm asking you very clearly, Mr. Secretary, do you have something to hide? You hide what you're ashamed of. Now, you've written a letter to your general manager, and you said: "The wooding of this place began in 1992." And you're sending a letter to the Nature Board with the signature of your esteemed director to be removed from the first-degree area, and how fast this institution works is responding to this article within a week. Now, in this article it says: since it was wooded after 1992, turn it into a third site. Now, from here, how old are those trees? Mr. Secretary, you know as well as I do, and the director of the forest who signed for this is a 45-year-old forest engineer. Mr. General Manager and Mr. Secretary, if you ask the boy that these trees are fifty-sixty years old. Yes, dear MPs, I'm showing you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0160par0482	That's a shame!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0159par0483	They're making the woodsmen sore. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Look, in the same place -- during the period of the 80 revolution -- the Prime Minister, the Bulent Nation, is looking forward to this place.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0160par0486	Oh, that's the rest of September 12th!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0159par0487	The forest director of that time, Omar Özen -- on behalf of all the forestmen from here, on behalf of the Turkish nation, with grace, with gratitude, with gratitude -- resists this. The heart of the forest headquarters, the heart of the forest rangers, we continue to use it as the centre of the forestmen by convincing the revolutionary rule of the era. Now, I'm here to ask Mr. Secretary clearly, what you're going to do here in the presence of the great Turkish nation.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0161par0490	It's for the gravitas, the gravitas!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0162par0491	Perhaps Mr. Secretary's residence...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0159par0492	Now, I'm going to show you another picture. This is the Centre for Justice and Development, you all know. Look, you see these walls, these walls, they've got AK PARTY buses in them, they've got cars. You go in and park your cars every day. Do you know whose place this is? The Director General of the Forest. By occupying 3,600 square metres of space, you're turning it into a center of justice and development. Now, you're taking trillions of money from the treasure. Do you need a location of 3,600 square meters of forest headquarters? I'm asking the Minister of the Forest here: you're suing thousands of people for occupying 100 square meters of forest in forest villages, at the top of the mountains. We have forest villagers in prison. But you can't keep an eye on your 3,600 square feet of land in the middle of town. After that, he sent us... where is he? A congressman just sent it over. I planted a plant in your name. Mr. Secretary, don't plant saplings in our name. You, take care of the woods, the woods. We plant our own saplings.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0163par0495	How many saplings have you planted?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0159par0496	I've planted thousands. Mr. Secretary knows, he'll tell you in a minute. I planted thousands, millions of saplings, cedar seeds. So know the history of the person you're talking about.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0164par0497	Tell me about the Ataturk Forest Farm, Congressman.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0159par0498	Dear MPs, look, now, when I ask these questions, why did you give this? Look at the answer Mr. Secretary: you know, there are terrorist incidents. So we need to keep security tight at the AK PARTY headquarters. I'm sure that's fine. I suppose you'd like to have security there. We'd like to, but it's not your job. Your job is to protect the forest. It falls to the Ministry of Interior, the Turkish police, and we have no doubt that it will protect it.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0165par0499	The road is passing. They'll take the road.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0166par0500	Do they rent the parking lot?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0159par0501	Now, of course, as the Minister deals with this, look, we're going through a period where global warming and climate change are a major threat, where countries have to invest billions of dollars in order to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. We need to maintain 1,200,000 hectares of young forests every year. He didn't put the funding on the budget to do these things, and what are you going to do with them? You'll do it with forest engineers. Now, I'm calling in a call from here to Mr. Secretary. There are thousands of forest engineers who have graduated from forest school, waiting for work. The most important thing to reduce carbon dioxide emissions are the forests. Until we invest millions of dollars elsewhere, let's process these forest engineers. In the care of these young forests, let's take advantage of our forest engineers, our young minds, our dynamics. Look, there are 900 engineers who are committed to the General Directorate of the Forest under Code 645 that need to be picked up immediately, but we've given a lot of hope to these young forestmen that the end of the year has come. I'm asking you to answer that request, Mr. Secretary. Again, we all know -- I've just told you -- there are a lot of temps working for the Director General of the Forest from Erzurum to Adana, from Mersin to Thrace. These temps need to be put on staff as soon as possible. If we are part of the Kyoto Protocol, the forests are the largest carbon swallows, and I think we should take advantage of these workers in summer and winter in order to meet our requirements for the Kyoto Protocol. And he wants these to be answered to his staff demands, and I pay my respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0167par0506	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Muharrem Varli is the last speaker for the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0168par0510	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of the State Department of Water Affairs, the General Directorate of State Meteorological Affairs, on the draft of the 2012 Central Management Budget Act. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I salute your grand delegation. The government's General Directorate for Meteorological Affairs bids 171m 294,000 euros for 2012, with a budget of 134m 435,000 euros increased 27.42 per cent. We have to admit that in recent years, meteorological projections have been very healthy with investments. But I can't say the same positive ideas for the budget increase of the State Water Affairs General Directorate because the government's budget of $7 billion, 366 million, is offered at $7 billion,980 million for 2012, with an increase of 8.33 per cent. Now, I've said that there's been a great development in meteorology, of course, but meteorology is an institution that should lead both war and peace to all humanity and all of our people. I'm a farmer's MP. Meteorology should also lead the farmer. By predicting three or five months in advance, the farmer needs to direct the product he will plant. I think it would be in the best interest of our country and our people if we could improve the meteorology institution, if we could improve it. I said I was a farmer's MP. Now, when the DSI budget is being discussed, it's impossible not to talk about dams and irrigation, not to mention the farmer's condition. Today, there's a Seven-Eye Dam in the Adana region that was laid out many years ago. In each election, local AKP-based politicians were able to get their votes, saying that the Seven Eye Dam would be opened to water in a year's time. The next day will come tomorrow, and the next day will come. But despite the completion of the power plant of the Seven-Eyed Dam a few years ago or two years ago, no improvement has been made in the watering part so far. It's said he's being tendered by the Ministry, but if this project has been tendered, the irrigation systems should have been launched by now. If this project was to be finished in 2014, if it was to be put to life, then so far, underground irrigation pipes and concrete channels would have to be put into investment in the region, but so far, there's nothing. That's why our farmers in the region ask Mr. Minister: "When will the watering system of Seven-Eyes become life? When will that religiously beautiful land be given to the country's economy? We're talking about 700,000 acres here, and you know very well, 750 acres. Ceyhan, Misis, Kozan, Imamoglu is a land in which you can get very good yield from every crop you plant, but unfortunately it can't be watered. I hope today Mr. Secretary will be able to bring up the statement here, and our dear citizens who are waiting for an answer will be answered as well. Again, drainage ducts. These drainage channels opened in the 1970s, and they're very useful. The drainage canals that the farmer watered his field and watered what we call foot water, which led to rivers, rivers, and seas. But since it opened many, many years ago, these channels are now largely flooded. I've brought this up a couple of times to the Minister about getting it cleaned up. Mr. Secretary will now say: "The cleaning of these belongs to the watering units." Yes, sir, it belongs to the irrigation troops, but you know very well that the irrigation troops have no power to clean it up. The State Waterworks need to step in and clean these drainage ducts and present them to the farmer's service as soon as possible. Oh, he doesn't clean? He's cleaning it up. Three years ago, it turns around, three years later, it cleans up the same channel again, but for 15 years, it hasn't been scooped in 20 years, unfortunately, the drainage ducts are just sitting there. This matter must be resolved at once. Again, base drainage... has been installed through TOPRAKSU in the Çukurova region over the past years. Look, valued lawmakers, this base drainage is a very important issue. It's a system that reduces the barren water of the field, the water level. Dukurova's lands have become a barren land due to excessive fertilizer and unconscious irrigation. Today, the most important part of Turkey is Çukurova, its most important fertile territory is Çukurova, but its base drainage is sadly neglected and most of its territory has been left barren. Now, the Minister will say: "Ya, TOPRAKSU has been abolished, the Village Service has been transferred to private administration." What does DSI do? Please hand over to the DSI and let the DSI begin its work on the base drainage and save those beautiful lands and offer it to our farmer's service as soon as possible. Our farmers, the people who produce them, they want to earn what they produce, they don't want to lose their land. In this sense, the DSI must take a very effective role. Again, it's about the irrigation ducts... and the irrigation ducts are too old. Today, the big canals we call the large, coating canals break out every day. The concrete canals, which lead to the watering of the fields, have broken, poured out concrete channels, and the water flowing from them victimizes our farmers, preventing our farmers from plowing their fields, turning the field into a water lake, as it were. Thus, our farmer is unable to sow his field. In this regard, the DSI must come up with a solution at once. Now, again, we just said watering units, and I want to say a few things about irrigation troops here: Mr. Secretary, it was a good thing that the irrigation troops were formed, but you took away many powers from Law 6172, which you had recently removed, and you gave them to the DSI and the Ministry. Here's one of them is the detection of water prices. We're gonna have a farmer who's already in trouble, who can't raise money for mazota, who can't raise money for fertilizer, and who can't pay for irrigation, and who can't afford to deal with new problems and problems every day, and who can't? Now, today, 13 million lira is watering the acre of the field. The ministry's assessment next year says the prospect will be $30 million in cotton and $27 million in corn. Now, is God the answer, and how will the farmers remove these fees? How can he plant it and plant it and earn money from it? We've already told you, diesel prices are too high, fertilizer prices are too high, and if you bring water prices on top of that, you add humps to the farmer's hump, you make the farmer stop producing. For that reason, the decision of the DSI or the Ministry must also be merciful. That was the decision that the assembly of the irrigation troops had made before. Since parliament was the average of the people living in that area, and people who knew the problems and problems of that area, there was also a reasonable, logical conclusion that they decided to do so, but now that people who don't know the area will be making decisions about the functioning of that area, so they'll be victimizing our people. Again, Mr. Minister, there are about 5 million acres of land that can be planted in Adana, and so far only 2 million 131,000 acres -- or square meters -- have been opened to agriculture. When you go out, you say you've done some very important work, you say you've done some very big things, but so far -- thank you again, thank you, thank you -- with the dams that Mr. Demirel has built, the Çukurova region is watering -- you haven't even been able to water a Seven-Eye Dam yet. And in that sense, I hope you'll do more positive, better things, wish you all the best in the 2012 budget.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit03spe0169par0525	Thank you, Mr Varli. Congressmans, I'm taking a break from the merger until 8:30.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0169par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 37th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the 2012 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2010 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission and the government are in place. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Osman Taney Kuruturk is an Istanbul MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Kurkurk.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0170par0007	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been transformed into a policy behind a smoke screen, which suggests that Turkish foreign policy has begun with the charge of zero trouble and has been driven into conflict with neighbours, is incoherent, unstable, submissive to pressures.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0171par0008	There is no Secretary of State, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0169par0009	Congressman, please, Mr. Secretary is here on behalf of the government.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0172par0010	But the Minister of the Forest is here.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0169par0011	Here you go, Mr. Kurkurk.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0173par0012	There's talk of the Secretary of State, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0174par0013	We're in.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0175par0014	We'll represent it.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0176par0015	We don't have a foreign minister, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0177par0016	Maybe not. In the name of the government, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Koruturk. Please come in.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0176par0018	Then don't interrupt my time, please.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0177par0019	Why? I didn't cut it. Your friends did. Please, I mean... that's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0176par0020	Is that a thing?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0177par0021	When I interrupt, I give. Something that didn't come from me. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0176par0023	It's hard to grasp the subtleties of our foreign policy, let alone the thick lines. In many areas, the government takes up positions with open and harsh expressions, reacting with sudden and emotional responses to the international issue, changing its attitude to the pressure later, admitting everything it initially opposes. Armenia's expansion, NATO Secretary General's appointment, France's return to NATO's military wing, NATO intervention in Libya, the second Gaza convoy, missile shield, U.S. radar, Syrian politics, are examples of this unprincipled attitude. The soft force, which the government has said is adopted in foreign policy, has become a threatening and military intervention, as a result of a new government that the Arab spring has also led to instigation. In a way that no government has ever done in the history of the Republic in the eighty-eight-year period, which is a big problem to do, the government has taken the initiative to organize and manipulate foreign opposition, domestic policy, public movement, to be a direct party in the turmoil there. This happened in Libya, after the United Nations Security Council, the government held a meeting in Istanbul called the Libyan Contact Group, where permanent members of the Security Council decided that the Libyan government at that time was illegitimate in the absence of China and Russia. While fighting for power in Libya, Mr. Foreign Minister Benghazi took part in the resistance rally in the United Nations, making a statement to the international press as to which Libyan flag should be raised in front of the United Nations building. Now, we're doing the same thing in Syria, and we're on the verge of conflict with this country where you held joint cabinet meetings yesterday in a meaningless kinship. As a result of this transformation, our neighbors have also changed their attitude towards us, and even the Iraqi Prime Minister has complained about Turkey's interference with his domestic policies, as he told the Wall Street Journal the previous day. Some of our border neighbors, including Iran, who we backed at the UN Security Council, have also experienced threats from us. This turn of Turkish foreign policy was viewed as an opportunity by the Western community, where we were increasingly separated from the government's rhetoric, particularly a trend that encouraged Turkey to be used as the front line in operations aimed at Syria, which led to the isolation of Iran. The Western community, which we are at the point of total membership in the EU, has chosen to separate us from itself in its strategy against Syria and drive us to the front lines with the Arab League, to help Turkey lead the Arab League through the sanctions that will be applied to Syria by holding itself in the background. The government appears to be willing to play a regime changer when it fails to achieve zero problems with its neighbors. However, the same government held a meeting of the Syrian High-level Strategic Co-operation Council in Damascus on December 22 - 23rd 2009, with the participation of the Prime Minister himself. This conclusion statement, which included 50 text of agreements, included long-term strategic partnerships in areas involving the two countries, strengthening bilateral relations strategically, developing shared visions, creating common lines of action in the face of similar threats and trials in both countries and the region. Dear friends, these are not things to be trifled with today, they can't be forgotten tomorrow, but over a year has passed, there's no strategic partnership left, no shared vision, no common threats. So you don't have the ability to know your neighbor, and that's why you can call what you called yesterday's "kak" today. The Prime Minister's statement in the form of Assad, which we have not changed, is not believable, and what Assad was yesterday is today. Only in Syria, in the Arab spring, the people's movement took the lead, and the administration, as it has done before, has activated the proper practices to suppress opponents. Of course, it is not possible to excuse the Syrian regime to use violence against its own people. During the time of the government's silence, the Republican People's Party made a clear stand on this issue, warning the Assad administration repeatedly to respond quickly to the democratic demands of its people, to learn from those in Egypt, Tunisia. However, the government's direct implementation of Syrian affairs is a very wrong, dangerous, and adventurous policy. There's a side to the matter that concerns our internal security. When the Syrian regime feels threatened, it is a state that has made its way of reacting in ways similar to the countries he thinks are leading him to this threat. Does the government consider that the position, actions and rhetoric of the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister and the government towards the Syrian regime could lead this regime to incite terrorism in Turkey? There are delicate balances in Turkey, which Bezar Assad has voiced through international media, and actions that will be taken into account will cause Turkey great trouble. In the face of their statements, what measures is the government taking against their threats? I mentioned that the international movement towards Syria was also intended to isolate Iran. Nowadays, the possibility of an attack against Iran from the West or Israel is increasingly loud in the international press. Has the government prepared a contingency plan in case of such a possibility? What attitude will Turkey take if Iran is attacked? Turkey-Israeli relations have hit rock bottom with the Blue Marmara incident. We strongly condemn Israel's position, and we want to apologize to Turkey for the murder of nine of our citizens and pay compensation. Both reports published within the UN have pointed out in different measure the wrongs of Israel, but these reports also say that the purpose of the Blue Marina convoy is political beyond humanitarian aid. Moreover, the second UN commission report, which was established at the request of the government, has also concluded that the Gaza blockade is legal. Turkey's help to the Palestinians was to register the legality of the Gaza blockade? What kind of shortsightedness is that? Congressmans, a while ago, we were a country that had become peacemakers between Syria and Israel, and we were proud of it. How come we're enemies now with both of them? Is that the discreet foreign policy? By reducing ties with Israel to zero, the government deprived Turkey of the possibility to play a role in the Middle East conflict, hiding behind the NATO missile shield project, setting up an early tip radar announced by American authorities to serve Israel as a result of a bilateral agreement with the United States. Iran and Russia see it as a military measure against them. With Iran, which has not been a hot conflict between us since 1639, except for the 1962 Scuba missile crisis, since 1950, Russia, which has not threatened Turkey directly during the time of its terror balance, has made it necessary to threaten us with a missile attack. How did the government react, except to give notes to these threats, and what measures did it take? In addition to these negatives, the threat of terrorism from Iraq to Turkey continues without diminishing. The failure of our foreign policy is not limited only to our neighbours and region. Our relations with the European Union are in a deadlock, completely frozen, and business has led our ministers to speak rudely to EU parliamentarians during the mixed parliamentary meetings. The government, on the other hand, seems to have given up hope of negotiations with the European Union on the basis. In the near future, in a 180 - degree turn, as in Syria, I gave up this work. No one will be surprised. The number of people who believed that the government had been willing to do so from the beginning is increasing. The government feels closer to the world of sheiks, kings, orders, rather than to modern values, democracy, fundamental rights and freedoms, freedom of expression and press, the European Union, which has established standards for equality of women and men. The urge to lead the region, to win the Arab public opinion, may also play a role. But there is a fact that everyone knows that none of the members of the Arab League today that imposed democracy on Syria were ruled by a democratic regime. The main factor that drives them on this path is the defensive reflex stemming from the examples of Tunisia, Egypt, Libya, and preventing the turmoil in Syria from spreading to them. Of course, Iran is also in his accounts. Turkey, which is in full solidarity with them today, has to think about what it will do when these regimes begin to shake. It is a tradition of Turkish foreign policy not to interfere in Arab conflicts, and our country has never been harmed. Turkey, on the other hand, is now almost an actual member of the Arab League. It's one thing to have good relations with Arab countries, and it's one thing we support, but it's wrong to get involved in conflict between them, and it's not well perceived by Arab countries. Time will teach you that. The government has repeatedly demonstrated its weakness in its general foreign policy, which has not yet been understood by Cyprus. Why has the government so far not shown the slightest success in removing or mitigating pressures against the Turkish Cypriots and the Turkish Cypriot people and the Turkish Cypriot Cypriot Cypriots that it has led to the world's developments, that it has been a quarterback in the Middle East, that there has been no work done in the region without being asked? Why do not any of the Arab kings, sheiks, or commandments of which the government claims to have made a point that they do not have the courage to recognize the KKTC? Why doesn't the government defend the rights of the Turkish Cypriots to Syria, Libya, to the hearts of the great states? Our foreign policy also failed in the Eastern Mediterranean. Before the AKP government even realized it, the Greeks had systematically signed agreements with Egypt, Lebanon and Israel since 2003, and eventually began to search for oil, drilling, and also with support from the United States and the EU. The government has not been able to draw any of these countries, where they maintain close relations, who are involved in trying to form governments, who have sent peacekeepers to some of them, into the line of national interest. All he could do was send a museum-owned research ship to the area, and again, try to console our public with empty exits. The government, which undermines Turkey's credibility with its undecisive policy, appears to have implemented Turkish foreign affairs and a staff policy aimed at corrupting its institutional memory, which has had a radical and honorable tradition and has acquired knowledge and experience since centuries. I would like to record with concern and regret that our elite foreign service, which the Prime Minister himself has been trying to insult on many occasions, has been increasingly ignored; rather than contributing to political planning, the ministry's primary mission is reduced to being used only for service and logistical purposes; its career structure has been corrupted by law enforcement, and its career structure has been attempted to take over Liaison. We can't deny that it's at least a success in public diplomacy to present this period of incompetence as a great success to the public as the government has done. But please, let's not kid ourselves, and let's not take the West press's praises and Western politicians' praises too seriously. It is true that some of the foreign media have been constantly talking about the importance of Turkey, the growing weight in the region, but let's not forget that all of these articles mention the tendency to become authoritarian in Turkey, the intimidation of the press, the politicalisation of the judiciary. In fact, there is no mention of the success of countries who receive such criticism in the West. Because when the authoritarian tendencies are heavy, the press is digested, the auto-sensorship is forced, and the judgment is politicalized, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done. But if it's a country that's valid for the song, run by a missing democracy, then interests are slow and back rubs begin. That's what Turkey is like today. The world and the Middle East want to see Turkey with them in a remarkable complex conjunctural of the North African region, and for that, the West is generous in its rhetoric. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to end my remarks by sharing with you a determination that Ataturk made in the early years of the republic regarding foreign policy. While you're listening to this, please reflect on today's foreign policy. Ataturk says: "External politics is strictly concerned with the internal structure of a society. Because foreign policies that are not based on the internal system are always doomed to be left in the void. The more powerful an inner body and text a society has, the stronger its foreign policy is and the tougher it is. In addition, foreign politics should not be large enough for the interior to endure. Otherwise, those who pursue imaginary foreign politics lose their baselines. In the dorm, the peace policy of peace, peace, peace, peace and unity within the state, is intended to follow a policy that will result in results as a peaceful, stable, respected, and reliable state outside." The Republican People's Party will vote against the State Department's 2012 budget because it follows a policy that does not meet those criteria. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0178par0050	Thank you, Mr. Korutk. The second speaker for the Republican People's Party Group is Ayşe Nedret Akova, Balıkesir MP. Here you are, Mr. Akova.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0179par0054	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my Group concerning the Central Management Budget Law Bill of 2012 by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and the General Directorate of Family and Social Research, the Status of Women General Directorate and the draft of the final account law of the General Directorate for Social Aid and Solidarity. I salute the High Council. The 20th Festival of the disabled in Balıkesir Ayvalık district will also take place this year with thousands of people participating. Honourable lawmakers, the Justice and Development Party (AKP), in charge of the public financial administration, are wrong to approve the Central Administration's Final Accounting and Budget Act 2010 since the Court's general assessment reports, which does not meet the requirements of accountability and transparency, and are not submitted to the Plan and Budget Commission, are not in accordance with the principles of accountability and transparency. Trying to get to the conclusion without following the legal procedure that needs to be followed, Turkey's Grand National Assembly is unable to carry out its duties as it should. If we create a perfect constitution and institutions, even if all international and national laws are perfectly regulated to protect and strengthen women and children without a democratic political culture environment and with no demeaning, placing women in their homes and giving birth to at least three children, weakening them, instructing them to sit beside your husband without a change in the social mentality of women and children. Mr. Minister Fatma Şahin may be selfless and zealous, but with the approval of the Council of Europe's Convention on violence and domestic violence against women and the ratification of the Council of Europe's Convention on fighting these things, the laws for implementing them must be passed immediately, and which of the international contracts, which have so far been approved in the Turkish Grand National Assembly by your government, have been applied according to the 90th Article of our Constitution? The ECHR and the European Convention on Human Rights are in place, which are where and how. When a young girl loses her baby by the kicks of the police, the account of the violence against the women and children will be ignored, and even though a young girl who wants to use her democratic rights is broken again by police violence, the idea of her being called a woman or a girl again and not being questioned by violence has become clear to one minister's mind that our women can now return home; the reason our other minister's unemployment numbers are increasing is because women are looking for work; if she doesn't try to cover up the camera footage of the abuse thrown at her at the police station in İzmir, it's obvious that if she doesn't show up. Before the mind changes, the woman and child will be subjected to violence again. The policy of constraints of job-searching will continue. Although the rights of women and children are protected on the legal grounds and are made to live as a human being, in practice, we will continue to talk about these problems before they come to life. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy takes responsibility for the most difficult living conditions in our society. Life standards will be improved according to the budget of our elders, our women, our disabled, our martyr relatives, our gas, our poor, our substance abuser, our ministry. The most important policy tool in government is the budget, but the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy is unfortunately not enough to address the problems of our citizens. The women who make up half our population, although not their own name, see this ministry as the ministry responsible for them. However, within the ministry's share of the Women's Status General Directorate, the budget share is 0.06%. The woman's status in social, economic, cultural and political areas is impossible to improve with a budget share of 0.06 per cent. The female already individual is trapped in the concept of family. As the family takes the lead, the woman with no family is doomed to perish in a conservative understanding. The ministry's budget includes 97 per cent of the lion's share of social security and welfare services, which are subject to categorisation within the municipal directorates of Family and Social Policy and the Office of Social Welfare. Honourable lawmakers, this is the coal budget, the dry food budget; this is actually the government's charity budget. Social benefits have no common motive, no audits, multiple benefits, poverty is displayed, the efficiency and efficiency of the social transfer system is not high. Social transfers have a high impact on reducing poverty rates in the world, while our country is weak. The methods of fighting poverty are both inadequate and do not reduce poverty. There are foundations that deposit welfare allowances on interest rather than on duty. There is no single-handed database for helping the poor. The transfer of social services and benefits to the most victims of society is not effectively and efficiently done by the disorganized institutional structure. Different tools have not been developed for social protection and aid policy. The share for social protection and benefits is below the OECD average. The rule's social welfare policy is far away from the ability to lead the individual to production and employment, to integrate with society. If the family insurance was adopted, as the CHP has suggested, our citizen would receive the right to human income to live by the constitutional rights of the social state. This is a policy that will solve the problem of exclusion of the poor, which will achieve war with poverty. Aids should be expressed as an insurance policy for the citizen's constitutional rights, not as a blessing. The minimum share in the budget belongs to those who have no social security. For example, in the agricultural sector, the woman who works hard in the domestic service sector has no future insurance, no health insurance, and the state ignores the situation. How to strengthen a woman with no social security, there is no answer in the budget. One of the main problems is the Ministry's need for education and labour. This is not a problem to be solved by short-term seminars. Another problem is that women, children, and disabled citizens do not appear regularly in statistics. Is social research not important enough, or is there no regular statistics, no reviews, just so the size of the problem doesn't get out? Our women and children continue to struggle for survival by violating all kinds of healthy rights, such as violence, harassment, abuse. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] They're still waiting for the law to come out and its legitimacy, if that's enough to last them a lifetime. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0180par0071	Thank you, Mr. Akova. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the third speaker is Candan Üşeker, Tekirdağ MP. Here you go, Mr. Supreme.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0181par0075	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge in the budget bill of 2012, on the budgets of Social Services and Child Protective Services, and on the budgets of the Responsibility Administration. I salute your grand delegation and all our fellow citizens who are watching us on the screens. Of course, increasing the budgets of these social workers is not enough, but we find it positive. It's important to have social services and welfare wherever there are human values, and it's important, it's important. A citizen has a human right to live, whether he is poor or unemployed, whether he is disabled or homeless. In any of these situations, our citizens should not be pushed into hunger, misery. This is a requirement of social law and social justice. Unfortunately, in our country, there is still much to be done to ensure the participation of disabled as equal citizens in economic, social, political life. As we look at the composition of the expenditures, a large percentage of the total source for the disabled is transferred to social benefits and salaries, salary payments. However, we find that research for disabled persons, prevention of disability, education, employment, rehabilitation, and the source for participation in social life are still very low. More than 31,000 disabled staff in the public sector and nearly 23,000 disabled staff in the private sector remain vacant. As these positions were kept idle, more than 110,000 disabled brothers and sisters were on their way to İSKUR, hoping to find a job. It is also thought to be a punishment for institutions in the private sector that cannot meet their disability quota, while no sanctions are imposed on public institutions. I wonder if you're planning on putting our disabled brothers and sisters in these positions. Dear lawmakers, the fact that citizens with a disability rate of less than 40 per cent in health reports are excluded from all public service provided to disabled citizens is a victim among our disabled citizens. In order to address this sacrifice, additional payments must be made to public institutional budgets, including this section. Is it not the right of every citizen to adapt to social and working life, to live up to human dignity, regardless of physical or mental barriers? Is there any explanation for the lack of an arrangement for public transportation, cinema, theater, cultural centers, workplaces, schools, in this technological age? We have the world's 16th largest economies. You will say, "You will not even make these simple arrangements for our disabled citizens." That's what you value to your disabled, to your old man. Dear lawmakers, there's no excuse for disabled women being locked up in four walls and our disabled citizens not even going to the polls to use the game. Isn't this the Minister of Health and the Minister of Health who told a blind citizen that he was working hard as a subcontractor? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Secretary, what you're doing is not a blessing, it's not a charity; it's a constitutional right, it's a civil right, and it's your duty to ensure it. In 2005, you issued Law 5378, which includes municipalities. What has been done today? What has been done to make all the physical areas and public transportation expressed in this law suitable for the disabled? We see and know that things aren't done, you and I. Dear lawmakers, being a woman in this country is a problem of its own, but life is more difficult when both women are disabled and disabled. There are only 65 shelters for women who are half our population to go to when they see domestic violence, and few disabled women who suffer from violence from the shelter. Would it fit the conscience to condemn these women to violence in their homes? What should our handicapped women do? ▪ Should he call it inevitable fate and submit to this violence? Dear friends, so the institutions that we're talking about on the budget are not just institutions that we're going to look at economically, but institutions that are very human-sized. What we're talking about is children in need of care, women, disabled, elderly people, so we need to be more sensitive and careful and make the right decisions. Although 31 per cent of our population is children, the child's child's child's budget is not even 1.5 per cent GDP. If we're going to carry out the child's rights, this budget needs to be raised as soon as possible. See, according to official data in our country, 42,000 children live on the street. The unofficial data suggests that this is 80 thousand. About 3 million children are forced to work. Twenty percent of our women are married at a child's age. The risk of our children being subjected to domestic violence and sexual abuse is high. Our future children are given as much education as they can afford to pay for the opportunity instead of the equality of education. At every stage from preschool education to university education has become increasingly money-wrenching. Students seeking free education have been imprisoned for months. Our children in the earthquake zone are almost doomed. An investment in a human being is the most valuable and most important. Therefore, the investments necessary for our children must be done immediately, and in doing so, there must be no cost account. Dear lawmakers, violence, beatings, harassment, used to come up through the media, and the public would know about it. Mr. Secretary, if there's any improvement in these institutions, we should know. If there is an increase in the quality of the staff, if there is improvement in their conduct, if our children are not victims, if there is love and compassion, we are very happy with you, and we appreciate you. However, if such publications are censored as in every field, we would like to know. Violence and sexual abuse to a child are the most important issues. Even during the trial, because of the workload in the courts, the children are at the police station and the courthouse halls...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0182par0092	Your Highness, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0181par0093	...to testify over and over again in police custody, forced to face the criminal, which increases the child's victimhood and the intensity of his trauma. This sacrifice must be ended at once.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0182par0094	Your Highness, please...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0183par0095	Your Highness, no one is listening now.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0181par0096	Without preventing domestic violence, women's murders, freedom of expression, human rights, equality in justice, without bringing the disabled, the woman, the child, the elderly to the quality of human life, you can neither speak of advanced democracy nor boast of what you've done. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0184par0099	None of this existed before 2003!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0185par0100	You don't yell at a lady!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0186par0101	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the fourth speaker is Emre Bridgelü, Tekirdağ MP.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0184par0102	I'm not yelling.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0185par0103	That's no way to treat a lady. Shame!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0187par0104	What you always do... shame, shame!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0184par0105	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0188par0106	You don't yell at a congressman.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0189par0107	Here you go, Mr. Bridge.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0190par0108	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, when I begin my words, I salute the High Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to tell you the cry of a mayor you know very well. The president says: "Since I've been on duty, I've said many times that blocking these streams will be a problem, that the coast road will be wrong, and if it rains, the city will flood." I told everyone, including the ministers, but no one listened. Congressmans, who said that? Says the mayor of Rize from AKP. Then what happened after the president said that? Since it rained, because the road was wrong, the creeks were blocked from meeting the sea, the city flooded, our people died, our government and citizens lost millions of dollars. Now, who's responsible for this? It's probably not the NGOs, NGOs, opposition parties, or people in the region who are trying to raise their voice when this road is being wronged. I'm telling you very clearly, it's the AKP Power who doesn't listen to anyone, who always reads what he knows. Now, you wouldn't believe it if we told you this, but it was your own mayor and the Prime Minister's compatriot. Oh, we don't even get an answer when we say it. As an MP -- Mr. Minister here -- I made a motion two and a half months ago to the minister about this matter, but I still haven't received an answer to my motion. Let me give you another example. Now, there are HES projects in power. In the areas you want to do, the people who live in that land are against it. Against NGOs. People want to make their voices heard, but they can't seem to find an answer. More than that, they're going after them with the police, with the gendarmes. People, old people, kids, teenagers get beaten up. Wait a minute, these people are citizens of this country, people who live on this land, they're not traitors. The court punishes a 17-year-old girl for participating in the HES act as a friend. Dear lawmakers, this is no punishment, this is no project management, this is no way to treat a citizen of the state. What if it does? You know what happens if it happens? After these events took place, the AKP's Mayor of Erzurum Bağbaş and the 9 AKP MPs said: "We can't find a party to share our problems with the HES projects, and therefore we resign from the AKP. When we go to that area, people say that these areas haven't been persecuted even in the Russian occupation. Now the samples are out there. AKP has to give up this habit of power. I'm afraid the consequences are too painful for society. We had an example of this in Rize. At this rate, we will experience an example of this in HES practices. The AKP must immediately give up its water policy based on destruction and Ranta. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to address the matter of Ergene. You know, Ergene, especially recently has been a significant focus on the agenda of our country and, of course, the House. A problem that really needs to be solved, a bleeding wound. The problem is not only Thracian's, it's the whole of Turkey's problem. It's not about politics. It's not appropriate for a politician, a statesman, to approach the issue as the Republican People's Party. More importantly, it's an event that proves how far away you are from the problem and how ignorant you are of the solution because you are away from the problem. Now, dear lawmakers, I ask you, does it matter if a person who lives on the edge of the Ergene River, a person who has cancer, a person who has health, a person who has a life, is from AKP, a Republican People's Party, a member of the Party, or any party? Is this something that can be made of political material? Now, the power must be removed from that point of view and from that mentality. For a teenager, concrete steps must be taken. The problem with puberty is that it is not the waste of municipalities, but it is the uncontrollable industry and the industry that is using underground waters to extract uncontrollably into the streams. It is an industrial dye and textile industry in the adolescent region. This sector actually uses underground water. I'm a member of the Environmental Commission, and when I asked what kind of work the Ministry did on Ergene, we came across a Basin Protection Plan for Ergene. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, when I examined that plan, I came across something, and I'd like to share it with you. Now, you know, Ergene soils are first-class farmlands, and the use of these farmlands except for agricultural purposes is repetitive energy in Article 13 of Earth Protection Law 5403. And that's wind and solar energy. Now, the EPDK has licensed a company (X) to extract waste gas from agricultural soil in the middle of Ergene (Ergene), licensed it to produce waste gas, produce electricity from garbage gas. Where did this waste gas come from, where did it come from, in the middle of Ergene, without calling it an agricultural facility like this, suddenly, in the middle of Ergene, it's become a facility to collect battery, battery, cable, medical waste, and bury 40,000 dangerous barrels? While we were waiting for our ministry to oppose this facility, all of a sudden, we found it in the brochure, as if it were an activity of the rescue project for Ergene. Now, what we're sad about is being sincere, being serious. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Unfortunately, when we came across this project, I didn't think it was serious about Ergene...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0191par0123	Mr. Bridge, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0190par0124	And I've seen that you can't be anymore. I -- of course, it's a very long -- thank you to the valued deputies who have been listening to us in this scope, and I hope the budget is still a blessing. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0192par0128	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the fifth speaker is Mehmet Hilal Kaplan, Alderman of the Republic. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0193par0131	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on the exact budget of the Ministry of Environment and Forestry. I salute your grand delegation and all the arrested MPs. [[Applause from CHP and BDP rows]] In addition to the comfort of technological development, we are in the process of growing rapidly every day the pollution produced by this development in nature and the environment. As humans, the destruction of nature and the environment we live in comes back to us as global warming, climate change, drought and hunger. We need to be more sensitive than ever to protect our natural resources and the environment that we live in, considering the need for increasing populations to meet our children's future effectively and efficiently. Two-thirds of the population of Turkey is an industrial country that lives in cities. That's why there's no luxury in ignoring environmental problems. The environmental problem is now a region, a global problem that is no longer the country's problem. Sadly, the effects of nuclear disasters in Russia and Japan are still under way. As developed countries turn to renewable energy sources that harm nature, environment, and human beings, we still do the opposite. As these countries gave up the post-nuclear disaster plants in Japan, Turkey unfortunately encourages the establishment of nuclear power plants with the understanding of the Justice and Development Party. This is the understanding that he accepted the danger of nuclear danger and tube gas explosion, which he created by ordering the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism twice in a month and a half. Congressmans, in the ten years you've been in power, I'd like to take a look at what you've done with the environment. I'd like to start with the city, which is the busiest in industry, if you'll allow me to be of this city. They're taken from the villagers at the expense of their land and turned into OSBs, and then these areas are given to the industrialists at high prices. The beaches are occupied by piers and ports. We have a bleeding wound, Dilova. In 2006, Parliament research found that people living here lost their lives due to air and environmental pollution, but during your rule, four new organised industrial areas and two new ports were allowed here. Corrupt industrialization and urbanization are causing residents of New Startown to move in this district. The homes of the people who live here are taken under their real cost, sent to the people without shelter, you take this money, whatever you do. Do you ever wonder why these people are forced to emigrate from their homes, their homes? The local press has also seen it, and an industrialist says: "A bureaucrat has come to me. The "Haydarpaşa Harbor" will not work for a long time due to the Marmaray Project. This port in your Dilova will be valued. Raise this port 300 to 400 acres, fill the sea if you must. I will fill the sea. It's not my opinion, it's the government's opinion. Minister, I'm asking you now, where does this man get his courage? He's been dislodging citizens in Dilova for years, causing them to lose their health, not enough, he wants to use the state's land as his father's farm. Don't spoil it like that! Mr. Secretary, do what you have to do for this bureaucrat, or you'll have to kick this industrialist's ass. I'm convinced that no Alexei MP will allow these environmental massacrers, these contractors. And I want you to know that I'm going to fight these understandings to the fullest. Minister, I have a suggestion to you: Come, compare the aerial photos of the Gulf and Dilovasi of the present Alexandria, twenty years ago, and how the environment has been destroyed, how the farmland has been plundered, how the seas have been filled. What do you mean by your understanding that these people, children, old-age, young men and women, in Hopa, in class, Erzurum, give to private companies the rights to use the water of rivers in Erzurum, to disrupt the ecosystem, to resist it, to resist it, to protect their habitats, to silence them with violence, with violence, with batons, with pepper gas? Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have carefully read the ministry's schedule. In 2009, there was no strategic plan for climate change based on the Kyoto Protocol that we were on. Unfortunately, there is no action plan to end the release of gases that thinn the ozone layer. We, the Republican People's Party, are not against industry. We are aware that industry, development and development are indispensable. But with their pollutants, we say yes to an industry that doesn't endanger human life, that doesn't destroy nature, that doesn't break the ecological balance, and we always will. I want the basic understanding to be known by everyone: "No investment is worth more than human life." Once again, I salute your High Council. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0194par0149	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the last speaker, Ilhan Demiröz, is an MP. Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0195par0153	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge to present the views of the Republican People's Party Group on the budgets of the esteemed MPs, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, the State Water Affairs General Directorate and the General Directorate of Meteorology. I salute your grand delegation and our fellow citizens who are watching us on their screens. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I want to thank the Minister for planting a plant in my name in memory of the 2012 Central Management Budget talks at the Ataturk Forest Farm. I've had an obelisk in the world on this occasion. I wish that these planted saplings would also cause the dark clouds of the sky to scatter over the Ataturk Forest Farm. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to stress the error of the law, however brief. Why did he return to the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs at such short intervals? Why was the environment taken from you? Why was the Environment combined with the Department of Urbanism, who reported CED, made plans and changes? Or is it because you say that the HESES are not polluting the environment, but preventing excesses like dots in the river, taking energy from too much water? Because our citizens, scientists, vocational rooms, NGOs oppose what's being done on behalf of the environment? Is it because they don't want the HESEs to be built in the land where people live, because they want these plants to dry rivers, kill fish, and harm the environment? Or is it because you're acting like the Minister of Energy? Finally, I am not curious about the purpose and meaning of the change in the name of the General Directorate of State Meteorological Affairs, as the General Directorate of Metheorology. Dear lawmakers, the DSI, an investor organisation, should be able to work to make it useful to our environment, to our nation, in these conditions, rather than the destructions of floods and natural environmental disasters when droughts were abundant. Our country's streams should be ruled not for the interests of the companies but for the needs of our people, but for the sake of the mining companies, we see that they are being used by non-interested companies. It shows that both our environment and our human health and agriculture are at stake. For example, various studies at Lotus Tea, which is also named after the 4th-largest province of Turkey in the District of Nilüfer, show that Nilüfer Tea itself and its flanks have been contaminated primarily by industrial and domestic pollutants. This water source is also important for agricultural production and is used to water it along its route across the plain. Hence, it exposes heavy metal pollution in agricultural areas watered by the time of the irrigation and heavy amounts of metal contained in the water. Dear lawmakers, for this reason, I would like to remind him not to forget that the influence of your ministry and the DSI General Directorate in water management is responsible for the planning, planning, management, development, and evaluation of subterranean water, not for the sake of economic gains every day, for the protection of environmental pollution, plant and animal assets, for healthy irrigation in agricultural soils, and for the preservation of indispensable water resources. When we look at the watering of agricultural land, Mr. Secretary, we all know that our irrigable land is 25.8 million hectares in Turkey, and that there are 8.5 million hectares in economic waterable land. According to your figures, 3.2 million hectares of 5.5 million hectares of economic waterable land have been watered by the DSI, and the rest have been watered by farmers, Village Services and the county's private administration. Given these figures since 1954, we must wait another 50 years for the watering of 8.5 million hectares of economic waterable farmland. They get angry when we say that this government destroyed agriculture, that agriculture was finished by the state. The Village Services have been shut down, handed over to the county's private administration. I don't want to bother you with numbers, but who's going to do small waterworks like the agricultural irrigation, drainage, land preserve, land supply that the Village Service, who's not getting help from the central administration, is going to do? Do you know there's an institution involved? I'd like to move on from here to there as fast as I don't have time. Mr. Secretary, during the election time, a thousand villages were released with the slogan Bin Pondet, and I'd like to know how much has happened by now. In addition, you have a fancy book given during talks with the Plan Budget Commission, "111 Facility 11/11/2011 is ready for service." He says, however, that when you study this flashy book, we see that most of these facilities are "special sector HES projects." I don't think the Department of Forestry and Water Affairs needs an opening like that. The ten-year-old AKP government, as well as any work, unfortunately, has dehydrated the water issue. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I finish my words here, I wish you all the best in the budget of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, with respect and love.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0196par0163	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Öznur Çukık, Malatya MP who is now in favor of him. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Çurk.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0197par0167	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn pledge on behalf of myself on the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, and I salute the General Assembly. My fellow lawmakers, I would like to address a few issues that my opposition MPs in particular need to know about the budget. As a result of the economic crisis in the world, in order to cover the deficit in many countries' budgets, you all need to know very well that they're making concessions from social policies. Even though they were all state-of-the-art and dollar-rich countries, they made very serious concessions for people, for social policy, for their budget. In the end, the people of these countries paid very bitter prescriptions. These were painful prescriptions, in a world where 1 billion people could not reach clean water, 100,000 children died before they could reach five years of age, and 101 million children could not reach the prime school age, and people's living standards were getting worse and worse. And here, my dear friends, is where the difference of the AK PARTY governments emerges. Again, I want my friends in opposition to listen carefully to the state of the Republic of Turkey, a democratic, secular, social law state. The only government that fills all these concepts is the government of the EC. In the last nine years, we've shown the world what a social state is, as a result of social, structural reforms and the right policies we've been implementing. We didn't bill our people for the crisis. We've never compromised our social policies and our cash benefits. One of the most important evidence is that our state ministry becomes the executive ministries. We have a ministry where so many different units gather under one roof. We have an executive ministry that's become much more important, along with the undersecretary, the undersecretary, the director general, and the heads of the department. More work than ever has turned into a ministry that requires faster implementation. Why? Because there's family in it, there's women in it. If a woman is unhappy in a family, then that society has signaled a disease. The unhappy mother's child and the unhappy wife's husband are unhappy. To give the government and the nation's women a say is to establish peace in society. And I want to make it very clear that, on this occasion, when we talk about equality of opportunity, all of our women should be given equal opportunities within themselves. We also believe that the 14 - year - old Ceylan, who was killed while grazing animals in the district of Lice of Diyarbakır, had been killed in order to protect his children from the explosion, would also have equal rights to Layla Şahin, who had not been trained because of the ban imposed on the university's head cover, and Ayşe Pasha, who had been brutally slaughtered by his wife. Shutting her up and taking away her rights is an invitation to a social disaster. We know very well that the social aid tap is open to the welfare family, our disabled children, our women's education. We believe that the subject of the sentence is human, and we say: We have a master minister who deals one by one with problems, without missing the whole picture, with a realistic consciousness, not theoretically, in practice, with samples, with numbers, with results, with life, with wounds, with solutions. In 2012, our ministry's budget reached 8.8 billion TL, and we are at a different point with our Family Social Support Project, our counselling and community centers, our love homes. And in the last decade, we've made very important legal arrangements for our women, and the last thing we've done in our legal arrangements is the Council of Europe's Istanbul Convention. On this occasion, I would like to thank our Foreign Minister and Minister of Family and Social Policy, Mr. Fatma Şahin.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0198par0175	Don't you blame Veysel Eroglu?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0197par0176	And everyone should know, my dear friends, that we never miss the forest while we're taking care of the trees one by one. I wish our 2012 budget would be a blessing for our entire country, and I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit04spe0199par0180	Thank you, Mr. Çurk. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0199par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of Turkey's 37th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We continue negotiations with the 2012 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2010 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission and the government are in place. Now it's on behalf of the government, Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Secretary, your time is 17 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0200par0008	Mr. President, I stand before you, esteemed MPs, on the basis of the approval of the Grand Assembly of my Ministry's 2012 Financial Budget Bill. I salute you all. I am honored to present information about our foreign policy on the basis of budget talks to our supreme Assembly, the ultimate source of legitimacy and control authority. Due to the time limit, we're about to introduce a much more comprehensive assessment in a pamphlet. So, I'm going to try to do the presentation without going into too much detail, especially through the basic transformation elements in the international system and our understanding of foreign policy on this issue: Dear lawmakers, a new era began today in 2011, when the parameters of the international system were fundamentally changed, and the cards were sort of reassembled in world policy. In fact, we go through this period every ten years. There was a geopolitical earthquake in 1991 with the dissolution of the Soviet Union, and the international system was in the process of restructuring. In September 2001, there was a security earthquake this time, and a new international system language, a new international policy concept, was introduced with security-based policies. In 2011, there was a massive economic political earthquake on both axes, and these two axes are the two areas where Turkey's direct destiny was determined. One is the European basin, developments in Europe, and the economic political earthquake in this framework, and the consequences. The other is a political earthquake in the Middle East, where cold war structures are solved, as well as coming out of the cold war conditions. In the middle of these two earthquake basins, we need to interpret this dynamic change on a solid surface and follow a dynamic course. The attitudes and attitudes that we're going to take today, politics, will determine our future for the next ten, 20 years. The global economy, which began with a debt crisis in Europe, is spreading under the influence of the political crisis, from an economic crisis to a financial crisis, from an economic crisis to a political crisis to a change of governments from Greece to Portugal. A new understanding in Europe after Lisbon, a gradual, layered understanding of Europe is developing, rather than a deepening Europe in Lisbon. Turkey is a European state and has to hold the pulse of every development in Europe. On the other hand, autocratic structures are unraveling in the Middle East, emerging new fields of horizontal and vertical interaction. We're going through a very critical, extremely critical period. For this reason, I have recently referred to the assessment of Mr. Gardenli, the chairman of the National Movement Party. Indeed, Mr. Gardened said that a chaos in the AK PARTY, which alone has come to power in this critical period of maturity, would do the country great harm. But if we use this in a positive language, it means that a strong AK PARTY is a guarantee of stability, power and future in Turkey.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0201par0018	That's not what he meant.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0200par0019	This is a very important point, because the fate of the AK PARTY and Turkey are now intertwined, integrated. A strong AK PARTY ruling is the guarantee of Turkey's future, an EC PARTY government that will continue and continue its achievements in the past. For that to happen, your values need to be strong, geographical, and historical. The AK PARTY is the true representation of the ideals and values of our nation's will that have lasted for centuries. The AK PARTY Group is also the embodiment of these values under this sacred roof. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I won't be able to agree with Mr. Bahçeli's one determination, there will be no yesterday, there will be no tomorrow, there will be no chaos in the AK PARTY. Mr. Gardener, don't let them worry. The AK PARTI staffs, who have set out for the sake of rights and public consent, will not allow any trial, chaos, and we will add new achievements under the leadership of our Prime Minister in nine years, and we will ensure that this international change process will take place in Turkey's acting.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0202par0022	The situation you've brought is obvious, foreign policy is clear, everything is clear!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0200par0023	Within the next decade, a Europe set by Turkey in 20 years will become a Middle East, a North African geography influenced by Turkey. It's a historical necessity, and we're going to make it happen. No one should doubt that. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In the transformation in Europe, we see two important risks. In all these transformations, risks come with benefits. There are two important risk areas. Just as after the great economic depression in 1929, it is a real cause of concern that racism and alien hostility in Europe have reached a level that undermines social and social peace and undermines everyday life. In 2001-2006, we closely followed the racist attacks that led to the murder of eight of our citizens, and in recent years, we made a very intense attempt. It's a multicultural Europe in the coming period, and it's a necessity for us and for the global community, and we're going to do everything we can to protect it. The second risk of the European Union's crisis is that, instead of planning the future of the European Union and its position in the global order, leaders in the European Union turn to a simple political account based solely on its ability to maintain power, instead of planning the European Union's future and position in the global order. Sadly, we see the last striking example in France. We were actually used to the fact that France's leadership used Turkey's membership in the European Union for years to be used to domestic policy fiction, but this time France has launched an attempt to completely eliminate freedom of thought and expression by banning genocide claims on Armenian claims, and has actually waged war on its own values. From here, I would like to address the French legislature who inherited the French revolution, which is the epitome of the struggle for freedom and democracy against the dogmas. I do not agree with your views, but I would like to address the council of Voltaire France, who says that I will defend your right to defend these opinions to the end: This is to build a new dogma about understanding history and ban alternative ideas. This is the medieval mentality, and the growth of this medieval mentality in France is the greatest danger to Europe. (EC PARTY) France considers itself the centre of European culture, the centre of European enlightenment. If such a law is passed, France will be the pioneer of the restoration of medieval mentality in Europe. The values represented by France above all are being violated by this attempt to eliminate free discussion, set a barrier to freedom of thought and expression, to silence history through a dogmatic law.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0203par0028	France has provoked you against Syria, Minister.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0200par0029	Moreover, the fact that a Turkish diplomat, the late Yilmaz Cholpan, was martyred by the Armenian terrorist group ASALA in Paris on December 22nd is a truly historic sign that France was in a grave error.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0204par0030	Who did you serve in Libya, Minister?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0200par0031	We've already announced to our French contacts and the world on many occasions that Turkey is ready to face its history on a fair memory, but with such laws, no one should ever think that we're going to submit to our right to defend ourselves, not even imagine. (AK PARTY) There is no way that any country leader, government or parliament will be able to give up the attempt to disgrace our country and our nation's forehead.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0205par0032	You're the one who signed the Armenian protocols, under the pressure of France.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0200par0033	If this law is adopted, our response to France will be decisive, and its consequences will be clear. We started our work together as ruling and opposition parties yesterday, and I thank the representatives of the opposition party who attended our meeting yesterday. Dear lawmakers will be the second major area to occupy our foreign policy agenda in the coming period and the process of liquidating major political transformations and authoritarian regimes, led by public movements leading in the Middle East in 2011. There have been various criticisms of our government regarding this foreign policy, which we have seen in the process described as "Arab awakening," and I would like to answer these criticisms that I respect within the framework of democratic functioning from this bench to the extent that it has given us time. First of all, we need to look at this matter in the context of value, and we need to look at it from inside this great council of ours. We are elected representatives of the people, of the people, of the people and of the people's will, under the roof of the High Assembly. This is extremely important because today's people on Arab Street have not taken orders from anywhere, but have taken action to establish a parliament that has been formed by the people, just as in this great Assembly.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0206par0036	You don't believe that, for God's sake!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0200par0037	First of all, our Parliament would return to those people and understand your request because we too were chosen and we represent our people. How could Turkey act in this process, in which Arab people started for democracy, and today we are under its great roof, to have a Parliament? Theoretically, we had three options. The first was to support the status quo and maintain relations with regimes that inflicted brutal violence against their own people as if nothing had happened. We never found this option reasonable, we didn't adopt it.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0206par0039	Saudi Arabia! Don't say things you don't believe in, Minister.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0200par0040	I'd like to ask those who advocate this option, and those who criticize us especially for being too involved in the events of Syria and the Arab awakening process, and for taking sides.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0207par0041	What happened in Egypt, Libya?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0200par0042	These questions are particularly meaningful under the roof of this great assembly. In the Middle East, who do you think Turkey should be on the side of while the masses have fought a democracy before our eyes while our brothers, our friends, rebel against oppressive dictator regimes for an honorable life?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0208par0043	When our boys come out...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0209par0044	When millions of people are dying, right?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0200par0045	In many cities of Syria, dozens of civilians are killed every day that need to be protected even in battle.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0209par0046	You're gonna put a red carpet under his feet?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0210par0047	Please, Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0200par0048	...when people were taken from their homes without question, were we supposed to close our eyes, turn our backs? Do you think we should have supported the status quo against those like us who asked for the right to choose and be elected? Turkey's own democratic experience and position would not allow such unprincipled politics, and we returned to our own principles. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The second possible course of action in the face of events, theoretically, in line with Turkey's old-fashioned reflexes, was to follow the policy of waiting, which was meant to be today, if we had waited, to see the developments. He said, "If we had waited, we would have been able to follow off-site actors with the policy of waiting outside the region." However, we have not followed policy, we will not follow it. And we will never hand over the fate of this region to off-site actors.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0211par0054	Who did you hand over the deeds to in Iraq? Who did you deliver it to, Mr. Secretary? How come you didn't make a sound in there?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0212par0055	Congressman, please don't interfere with Mr. Hatib.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0211par0056	Aren't you the one who held the joint cabinet meeting in Syria? What are you talking about?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0213par0057	The third course of action is an active effort to achieve the quickest and most peaceful success of the process within the consciousness of our historical ties to friendship with these countries and with the peoples.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0211par0058	Why are you telling me things you don't believe?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0214par0059	Dear Varli, please.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0213par0060	That's the way we embrace it, and that's the way it's right.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0215par0061	You've forgotten this House. You escaped from this House.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0213par0062	Because this move is human-oriented. As we've always said, no principle is born of the right of life, which is man's most sacred right.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0215par0063	You escaped from this House, Mr. Secretary, you escaped. No missile shield, Syria, nothing was discussed. You escaped.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0213par0064	No, last year, we, in New York last year...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0216par0065	Mr. Vural, Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0213par0066	...with a loud voice against the embargoes for Iran. No. No. No matter how independent we acted when we said...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0217par0067	You ran away, you ran away, you ran away from people.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0213par0068	...as we are acting independently in the Middle East today. No one can give us instructions. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Last year, you accused us of going over an axis shift in this House.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0217par0071	You ran away from the nation, you argued neither Syria nor the missile shield in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, you sat in a glass house with the MPs. Now you're coming in and talking about the budget.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0218par0072	Mr. Vural, we don't have that kind of procedure, please.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0213par0073	You accused us of a slip of the axis because we were in Iran's side during the Iranian vote. Now, we're saying the same thing. The more independent we were that day, the more independent we were today, the more independent we are with the people.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0217par0075	You ran away from the nation, you argued neither Syria nor the missile shield in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, you sat in a glass house with the MPs. Now you're coming in and talking about the budget.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0213par0076	We've never been silent about cruelty, ever.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0219par0077	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0213par0078	Yeah, I'm proud to say.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0220par0079	If you believe in democracy, if you believe in Parliament, the shield of Israel...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0221par0080	Mr. Secretary, you go ahead.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0213par0081	I'm proud to say...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0220par0082	You are a shield for Israel.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0213par0083	Not authority and pressure regimes...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0220par0084	You're making Turkey a shield for Israel.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0222par0085	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0213par0086	...it is our policy that makes Israel alone today, and it is our policy that makes Israel kneel before us in the region. We know how many messages Israel wants to reconnect every day.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0223par0087	You signed Armenian protocols under the Ministry of Interior of France and Russia.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0213par0088	For nine years, our great nation has buried in the chest the mentality that defines national interests by the suggestion and motive of others.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0224par0090	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0225par0091	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0226par0092	Who signed the Armenian Protocol, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0227par0093	As a matter of fact, we've made our choice clear from the very first moment.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0226par0094	What is NATO doing in Libya?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0228par0095	Dear Varli, please...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0227par0096	As the government of a democratic country, we were not on the side of authoritarian and oppressive regimes, but on the side of people who wanted democracy.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0226par0097	Yesterday you said white, today you call it black!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0227par0098	I'm referring to this specifically to social democrats. [[Applause from the EC PARTY ranks; noise from CHP and MHP rows]] In Tunisia, we have supported the legitimate demands of democracy of the people, and we will continue to give.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0226par0101	Yeah, you're telling a story, you're telling a story!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0229par0102	Mr. Secretary, you're a failure!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0227par0103	In Tunisia, the Al Nahda movement came to power... the Al Nahda movement, yes, took the majority, but Al Nahda founded the government, and today he arrived at the left-wing El Marzuki presidency. Here, democracy creates such a culture of compromise.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0230par0104	Mr. Secretary, do you believe yourself?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0227par0105	In Egypt, the Prime Minister was the first to call upon Mubarak to take the lead in the change.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0231par0106	Oh, come on.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0227par0107	In Libya, we made numerous attempts to show Gaddafi the way. Mr. Kilicdaroglu spoke of loyalty here. Our loyalty in the covenant is with the people of Misurata, the people of Benghazi, the people of Derne, and they welcomed our Prime Minister with thousands of Turkish Flags.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0231par0109	You'll run away from the Clave.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0227par0110	Go and watch his videos again and see the magnificent return of the Turk to Tripoli, Tripoli. [[AK PARTY rankings (Bravo) voices, applause; noise from CHP and HHP rows]] A review of our foreign policy comes from zero problems with neighbors. Well, last year, we had zero problems with the neighbors...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0232par0114	Congressmans, please, Mr. Secretary is answering your questions.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0227par0115	...who describe it as imagination, this year they're taking care of it. It's a beautiful development, it's a great development, but just so you know, we continue to implement the zero problem policy with the neighbors decisively.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0233par0116	You have become a shield for Israel.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0227par0117	If a neighbor oppresses his people, we will oppose him, hold his hand, not obey him.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0234par0119	You've made our relationship with the neighbors a problem.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0227par0120	...but we build the future with every neighbor who makes peace with his people.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0235par0121	You hit the wall, against the wall.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0227par0122	Today, our relations with Bulgaria, Greece, Ukraine, Russia, Georgia, Azerbaijan, Iran and Iraq are very clear and clear at the level of our governments.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0236par0123	Are you going to build with your Barzani brother? Why do you call Barzani.. Where are you related to Barzani?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0227par0125	On this subject... as well as on Iran... I suggest you read Mr. Salihi's statement today. Mr. Salihi used a very clear statement today about our phone call yesterday. (CHP and MHP rows) Please... look what Mr. Salihi says. Turkish statesmen, especially Mr. Gul, Erdoğan and Davutoglu, should know that the official view of Iran's Islamic Republic of Turkey is based on deep brotherhood and friendship.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0237par0126	Iran looks at me like that, but you don't.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0227par0127	So unconscious explanations and opinions are invalid in terms of Iran's foreign policy. We have warned those who are irresponsible and unconscious. He says, Mr. Salihi. (AS/TK) We deal with foreign ministers, heads of state. Our friendship with Iran is eternal, and it will last forever.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0238par0128	I'd resign if I were you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0227par0129	We have never tried to force change the regime of any country.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0238par0130	I blush when I talk about it.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0227par0131	We haven't told any country how to run it, and we're not telling it again.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0239par0132	America says, you don't say, you apply.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0227par0133	But if the people of a country stand up for the honor of their own humanity, for the dignity of their citizenship, and the rulers of that country point a gun at it, we're on the side of that people. We also told Mr. Bezar Assad. If there's any foreign intervention, we'll be with you, but we'd prefer you and your people to... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...don't push it, we won't hesitate for a minute, we said we'd prefer your people...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0240par0136	Step down, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0227par0138	I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0241par0140	The best thing you can do is resign.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0242par0141	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0243par0142	Malatya doesn't want the shield, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0244par0143	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0242par0144	Mr. Aslanoglu, are you saying something?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0244par0145	Mr. President, Mr. Ranger...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0242par0147	I get it, and that's the end of the applause. Okay.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0245par0148	Why don't you tell me about the women who were raped in Iraq, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0246par0149	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0242par0150	Congressmans, Mr. Kuruturk would like a word.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0247par0152	You get a little flushed, Mr. Secretary. Don't you ever blush? Yesterday, you call what you call black, today you call what you call white, today you call what you call black. I swear to God, it's good!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0242par0153	Congressmans, Mr. Kuruturk would like a word.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0247par0154	They say, "Don't get away with it! Don't get away with it!"
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0242par0155	Here you go, Mr. Kurkurk.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0248par0156	Mr. President, the Minister has made a false reference to me using my name. I want to fix it.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0242par0157	What did he say?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0248par0158	Mr. Minister, Mr. Korutrk said to wait and see. I didn't say that. I'm gonna fix this.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0242par0159	Here you go, Mr. Kurkurk. I'll give you two minutes, according to Article 69 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0248par0164	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Minister probably didn't understand what I was saying out of excitement. I didn't say anything about waiting and seeing. Besides, no one has the right to slander Turkish foreign policy. Until now, Turkish foreign policy has not followed such a quiet, calm policy. Turkish foreign policy has always led to a strong policy. What I'm saying is...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0242par0166	Please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0248par0167	Since we had a strategic relationship, we could use this strategic relationship to try to find out one last time, but that's not what we did. We're taking off, interfering with everyone's internal affairs. What do we do if they give it to us? If someone holds a meeting in Bucharest the day after tomorrow and says, "Turkey is the contact group" (the government is the government of Turkey; this government is unauthorized. What are we going to do about it? Let's not do what we don't want anyone else to do to us. Let's not twist anyone's words. My word is very clear. Turkish foreign policy is a very radical, very solid, very old and very powerful policy. It has to go on the same way. Let's not go on adventures. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0249par0171	Thank you, Mr. Korutk. [[Continue]] D) SOCIAL HELPING AND APPLAUSE [[Continue]] == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] And now, Minister of Family and Social Policy Fatma Şahin has asked for a word. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 17 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0250par0213	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 2012 budget as Minister of Family and Social Policy. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0251par0214	Come to the police station, to the police station...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0250par0215	Our Ministry of Family and Social Policy has been restructured in the 61st government. In the previous budget, it was justified that opposition, lawmakers should no longer be a state ministry, that this ministry should be turned into an executive ministry, and the 5 general directorates have been transformed into a strong ministry where social services have been combined under one roof by nonprivileged payments, social aid, martyrs and veterans. Why did we feel the need to do that? We know that social peace and peace pass through social development. Our ability to achieve social development is to follow social development along with economic development, strengthen social capital, and keep human beings alive so that the state can live. What Mr. Tuncel is saying is that we must keep the people alive so that the state can live. The good of our understanding is not to live the status quo, but to live the dark forces, not to live the gang and the mafia. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) We say that the people, the people, the people, the disabled, the women, the men and the 74 million people live in Turkey so that the state can live. We know why we're saying it, and we're building our policies accordingly.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0252par0217	Do you know who told you that?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0250par0218	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to show you a painting about the budget of my ministry and share with you where we come from. I'm an engineer-rooted MP. When we use the painting, I'd like to show you these paintings that we'll allow Parliament to see how our ministry's resources rise much faster.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0253par0219	Violence has increased by 1,400 percent, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0252par0220	Keep a man alive, not a man, but a man. There are other things to live by.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0250par0221	Congressmans, when you look at this painting, you can clearly see that it has changed by 50 per cent and has reached 8.8 billion TL in the budget, and has actually been transformed into a fiscally strengthened executive ministry. What we're trying to say is that we can't do anything without funds, without budgets. Likewise, in our second table here, I want to make it clear to you that 80 percent of our investment budget in 2012 has changed. When you look at the change here, it will be seen together what it means to be financially strengthened, and how it will be seen in 2012, when people, women, disabled people and families are brought to life, money will be transformed into a budget where the quality of human life is improved. Mr. President, our esteemed deputies have reconstructed the Department of Family and Society Services as we look at the construction of this Ministry. The General Directorate of Family and Community Services had previously been a weak General Directorate, since there was no policy-making ministry. Today, with his studies, with his research, where is the problem with the politics of family and community services and where is the problem? It has been transformed into a powerful General Manager who studies the answer to the analysis scientifically, and when we look at the structure of this General Directorate here, what is the situation of this family in our heads, especially in our heads? How do we strengthen this family? Is it to weaken a woman? We call it a conservative democratic party, a powerful individual, a powerful family, and a powerful nation!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0254par0224	Democratism and conservativeism don't match, Mr. Secretary, they're different concepts!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0250par0225	We know that your family's strength will never weaken her, that this is not an alternative to each other, that we need to strengthen our policies and family policies that keep her and the boy strong today because of the problem with broken families. But thanks to the latest study today, we see that we are still the world's most powerful country in divorces and family unity, and that the average of the European Union, which is 1.4 per thousand in divorces, is 1.4 per thousand in our country, while the average of the European Union is 4.8 per thousand in our country. When we look at the graphical response of divorces, we see that divorces have increased in years of economic distress, that in the 2001 crisis, they're beginning to recover.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0254par0227	You don't know that because the settlement divorce came in at that time. These numbers have increased since the settlement divorce has arrived. You don't know him, he's got a settlement divorce.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0250par0228	The cause of divorces is seen as a cause of deception, beating, and disinterest, and we are now a General Directorate who is producing policy on what we should do on these analyses as a result of these polls. I'd like to share one thing with you here in the General Assembly and the People's Assembly. The essence of progress is individual. When you fail to achieve the quality population, you will not be able to achieve any development. If aging is a major problem in the world today, if the European Union has declared 2012 (The Year of Active Age) and the population in our country has become stable, we need to put our hands around our heads and produce our population policies.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0255par0231	At least three kids?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0250par0232	I'm going to show you a painting to prove that at least three children don't have a conservative sense of men anyway. I want to share with you where this country has come from in population planning, and how we need to get out of here, and we need to get out of prejudices, and we need to come up with politics using science and intelligence. Congressmans, this December shows that our country is beginning to grow old. As this range expands, our young population is shrinking, and our population of over sixty-five is currently increasing by seven percent. The old population is the crown of our heads, but it's our duty to plan the fine young population, all of us, all parties. Now here's what I suggest: the Science Board...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0256par0235	Keep it, Mr. Secretary, keep it!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0250par0236	And to the speakers of the Republican People's Party, I'm bringing a proposal for the National Movement Party and whatever they think of it, you form the Science Council, I'll give the budget from my Ministry. How do you fix this curve, how many children per household will you do it with, you tell us, and we'll stand behind it. That's what we say in at least three kids. I think it's our politicians' greatest duty to create politics using science and intelligence.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0257par0237	And count the money you'll give me for the head of the house!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0250par0238	Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are the research of the family structure and the biggest project that has been created here is the family social support expertise project. What is this project? This project is about touching life. Many of the problems we face today are a result, including violence. However each family has a family physician, each family will have a social support expert with the family's social support expertise. These experts will analyse whatever legal support, economic support, psychological support is needed in that family, and we will be able to analyze them from our interstations, with feedbacks coming from here, whatever your family wants, what they need, what they need, what they need, what they need, what they need, what they need, what they need, how they need, how we need to keep it together before they recover. We care very much about this project, and we did it first in Van. Now, Mr. Demirel, the speaker of the National Movement Party, said that the Ministry of Family and Social Policy is not in Van. I'm telling my congressman, did you go to Van? I don't think it's right for you to sit in Ankara and comment on the tents in Van.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0258par0241	How do you know we're not going? How do you know?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0259par0242	I did, Mr. Secretary, correct him, we went as the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0250par0243	You left, Mr. Vural, but Mr. Ironel didn't.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0258par0244	You're going to hand out contracts, we're going to look!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0250par0245	I propose that 150 employees, undersecretary, deputy undersecretary, and all of my Ministry's employees have been victims of an earthquake. In the second earthquake, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy experienced that earthquake. So what now? 40,000 families visited one by one, went to tents, we came from the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, what do you need?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0258par0247	You've collapsed in the van, you've collapsed!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0250par0248	...and 2,800 families were given psychosocial support. We have been assigned as the Ministry of Transport Family and Social Policy, and we have followed as the Ministry that 50,000 of our citizens have been moved from Van to other provinces, social services and public institutions there. However, what we were missing was that perhaps we were short of telling you what we were doing, but if Mr. Demirel wants to come with me, I say we go with him to Van, walk around the tents together, and follow him in his place if we lack anything.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0258par0250	They burn, the tents burn, we can't go, we're scared! Those tents are burning, the children are dying!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0250par0251	Mr. President, we very much care about the struggle with poverty here, as we follow the part of family and community service strongly, because we know that when you look at the developed countries of the world today, where there is no peace and peace, there is no justice, there is much difference between wealth and poverty, and then the rich can't be happy, and the rich can't be at peace. So when we were on the road in 2002, we were able to provide employment-oriented economic growth, but we said one thing: we're going to share it, we're going to share it fair and square, we're going to get people's resources to the nation. That's why our Department of Social Welfare has been strongly restructured. On the one hand, as food reduces poverty, there are millions of people living in the world under a dollar today, and in my country, I thank my Great Place millions of times, and there are no one living under a dollar left.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0260par0253	Where is it? Where is it?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0250par0254	4.3% is our most critical point. I declare our goal to my deputy, who says, "You have no goals. We will continue to fight poverty until there are no more than four dollars a day. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'd like to move to the Women's Status General Directorate by also referring to the social welfare part, the SOİSIS, in the name of good use of time. Our social welfare system is equipped with information and technology infrastructure, and it's the right policy to register 9 million people who have gone into resuming today, being analyzed as economic and social support and naturally given more support to the poorer, as Mr. Tucson said, our friends from East and Southeast, our citizens, more education, health, more need for shelter, more need to burn, and I expect that Mr. Tuncel would be more grateful to the programme that we are making more positive discrimination in that area, and that the government should be more grateful. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs; the woman has no name. She has no ministry. I'd like to share with you the structure they call...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0261par0258	The woman's name is N. P.!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0250par0259	We, men and women, stood in the way of a Turkey where 74 million are first-class citizens, where blessings and burdens are shared equally. I'm telling you, we haven't gone back in any number of women's lives in our ten years of power. In women's education, girls and boys are equal in basic education today. This is the result of major campaigns, civil society, a significant sensitivity of Turkish society here, and a rate of 98.5% has been seized. We went through a period of opportunity equality with the health care services of the woman, and especially with East and Southeast-based women in getting to the hospital, getting to the nurse, getting to the doctor, getting to the baby, getting this excuse -- moving with animals, sleds, while our women now go to the hospital in modern weather ambulances, where they've been invited to hospital fifteen days earlier, and they've been given financial support to encourage giving birth at the hospital. What happened to us? The numbers caught the 2015 numbers in 2011. Today, we have reached the European Union standards at the rate of mother and child mortality, and we have received the support of the international community and international organisations in this regard. Here we are with a 48 per cent recovery and an action plan that meets European Union standards at the rate of mother and child mortality. On the one hand, we've completed our legal shortcomings. We've made a lot of legal arrangements in the Employment Law, especially in 4320, in the TCK, and we've established the latest Opportunity Equality Commission. Now, we've all declared a full mobilization in the fight against a woman with a problem in the world that we should all succeed in. As with violence against women, we say no to all kinds of violence, and we move on with zero tolerance.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0262par0262	Look how many women you have in your bureaucrats!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0250par0263	50%... 50%...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0263par0264	How many MPs do you have?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0262par0265	How many women do you have in your bureaucrats?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0250par0267	There's Foreign Affairs here, there's Forest. When I'm appointed right now...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0262par0268	That's your equal opportunity! He's your understanding! Look!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0264par0269	Mr. Tanal, please... Please...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0265par0270	50%!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0262par0271	Look at the equality of opportunity!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0266par0273	Mr. Deputy, there are 50 percent women, 50 percent men, when I appoint them.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0262par0275	How many bureaucrats are there?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0267par0276	Learn to listen! This is a lady speaking, brother!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0266par0277	I have a very big thank you to the Republic of Turkey Parliament, the Republican People's Party, the National Movement Party, the Peace and Democracy Party and my own party.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0268par0278	What about the woman at the police station, the woman at the police station?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0266par0279	We have made an example of you in the world and the Parliament of the Republic of Turkey has been the first to sign the Istanbul Agreement on the violence of the Republic of Turkey against women on the Council of Europe. This is important, but the second one will come after you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0268par0280	Minister, what about the woman who lost the baby?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0266par0281	And hopefully after the budget, we're moving her to the Council of Ministers very quickly, and we're meeting with two hundred and twenty NGOs, and we care a lot about her internal support, because we see the violence and the women's issue as a matter over parties, and we see the woman's right to life as a matter over parties.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0269par0283	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0270par0284	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0269par0285	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0270par0286	Sir, Mr. Secretary, the speaker of the National Movement Party has spoken to the speaker on the stand about Van ▪. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0269par0287	What did he say?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0270par0288	Did you go to Van? He asked...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0271par0289	Did you go?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0272par0290	No, sir, of course not!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0273par0291	One moment, Mr. Lawmakers, please, but...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0274par0292	...so if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0273par0293	In accordance with Article 69 of the Civil Code, I give you two minutes. Here you are, Mr. Oktay.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0274par0298	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, Mr. Secretary is excited, and I hope you don't turn out to be a tired minister.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0275par0300	I hope so.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0274par0301	Please don't be the ministers who get lost in strategic depths and get hit.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0276par0303	Mr. Vural, please, you started with the bullying, but please...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0274par0304	We went to Van, Mr. Secretary. We went to the van.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0277par0305	Mr. Ironel didn't go, you did.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0274par0306	We went to the van.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0277par0307	Let's go together.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0274par0308	One of the great ones says, "If he finds out, I'm close. If he doesn't understand, I'm close. You may have gone there, but if you don't understand, you're far away from them." As a nationalist movement party, we're both going to be close to them and we understand them. It's what the Minister said about the population balance. The population balance has raised a question to the National Movement Party. Yes, 2.1 is very important for the population balance, but especially when we consider that our population is getting older and older, it's important to maintain the stability of this population, but, Mr. Secretary, when you maintain the stability of this population, when you increase the young unemployed, you can't apply the population policy that can maintain the stability of this population. Therefore, because your macroeconomic policy breeds unemployment, the population is not a policy that can provide stability as well. Your intentions may be correct, but I would also like to point out that your government's economic policy is not a policy that can ensure the stability of this population. There are studies by the National Movement Party Research Development Centre on this issue. If you'd like, I'd like to take advantage of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0278par0312	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0279par0313	The right to answer has been granted, Mr. President. About the strategic depth of the...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0280par0314	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0278par0315	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0280par0316	When the preacher spoke, he teased me about my book 'Strategic Depth', Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0278par0317	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Just before we get into a new mess.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0281par0320	Mr. President, there is no such procedure, no such negotiation.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0282par0321	Mr. President, one moment, sir. About what?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0278par0322	Because of your bullying, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0282par0323	About what?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0278par0324	Because of your bullying.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0282par0325	Who did I pick on? What did I say?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0278par0326	Wait, Mr. Vural, what do you mean? No...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0282par0327	You asked me, ask him.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0278par0328	I asked him, of course, if he knew...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0282par0329	What did he say?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0278par0330	No, I asked, you didn't realize.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0282par0331	What did he say, what did he say?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0278par0333	Because of your words at the beginning of your speech, don't get tired like the tired ministers, like the other ministers.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0282par0334	If he considers himself tired, yes, I find it right to make a promise to a tired minister.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0278par0335	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0283par0337	No, Mr. President, I made a commitment not to the tired ministers part, but especially to the Strategic Depth, because that's what you mean.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0284par0338	That was ten years ago. The balance changes in the world in three months.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0283par0339	I wrote that when I was academically alive, and...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0284par0340	Mr. Secretary, you're waving a finger.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0283par0341	I'm trying to apply that work in practical life today, and I'm proud of it, but...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0285par0342	Mr. Secretary, when are we going to cross this embargo?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0286par0343	I need you to come back and find out a little more.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0287par0344	I'm talking about tired ministers, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0288par0345	No, I answer you as the owner of what you refer to as the strategic depth. First of all, I'd like you to read it.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0286par0346	Mr. Secretary, you address here.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0289par0347	Mr. Secretary, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0290par0348	I told you about the divers, are you a diver?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0291par0349	Then you don't know what you're saying, or this House...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0292par0350	Yeah, yeah, he doesn't know it.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0291par0351	You don't know what you're talking about, but everyone knows what it means.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0293par0352	Ten years have passed, balances have changed in the world, Mr. Secretary, balances have changed.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0291par0353	Yes, I wrote the book "Strategic Depth" in 2001, at a time when I never thought of projecting such theoretical work into practice, and I'm proud of it, and I'm proud of it, in any way today, in any way that we're trying to follow in any way...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0294par0354	Mr. Secretary, you have to write a new one.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0291par0355	...in a way that is consistent with Turkey's historical and geographical depth, we're trying to apply this strategic depth to make Turkey a global actor in dynamic, global structure -- which we've just mentioned.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0294par0356	None of your claims have been made, Mr. Secretary. None of your foreign strategy came true, it's all gone to waste.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0291par0357	What we mean is a strategy in accordance with Turkey's historical and geographical depth, that's what I mean as an academic, and that's the basis of the foreign policy that we try to achieve every day.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0294par0358	You've put the country in an Arab stalemate.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0291par0359	In this frame, if you want to have an academic discussion, let's do it, but if you're going to have a foreign policy debate instead of an academic debate...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0295par0360	Yeah, let's go out on TV with you about foreign policy.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0291par0361	...and we're ready to do that, but don't hide behind the implied words, be brave, object, and I'll answer this book academically. If you're going to object to foreign policy, we'll respond to it. As long as we have a heart and a heart and a heart to argue.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0296par0362	Mr. Secretary, you've failed in the ministry, you've had no arguments, no strategies.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0291par0363	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0297par0365	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0298par0366	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0297par0367	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0299par0368	You're bankrupt in foreign affairs.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0297par0369	Just a second, Mr. Lawmakers.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0300par0370	We have the courage to question the Minister's policies, the knowledge, the courage. It would have been more national if the minister, who said so here, had not established Syrian policy, missile shield policy elsewhere, had come and taken action here in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0301par0371	That's where we're building it.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0297par0372	Thank you, Mr. Vural, it's been filed.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0300par0373	Therefore, unofficial policies, but he himself stated that the Minister had taken a hit at strategic depths.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0297par0374	Mr. Vural, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0302par0375	Mr. President, does he have the right to speak like that, sir?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0300par0376	A prominent minister can no longer serve Turkey here, to be honest.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0297par0377	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0302par0378	Mr. President, you go ahead, sir, what kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0297par0379	Ladies and gentlemen, as the Presidential Court, Beşiktas is celebrating his victory as the leader of the UEFA European League game tonight, and we wish him success in the next round, and we wish him a clear path. [[Applause]] [[Continue]] D) SOCIAL HELPING AND APPLAUSE [[Continue]] == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] Now it's time for Minister of Forest and Water Affairs Veysel Eroglu. Here you go, Mr. Eroglu.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0303par0421	Mr. President, I'm here to present our most valuable deputies, especially to you about my Ministry's 2012 budget. I salute you all. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yeah, by the way, I'm glad I wore a black and white tie. Now, sir, of course, I'm not from Beşiktaş, but...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0304par0425	I swear to God, I can't think of anything to say.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0305par0426	We couldn't have done it without you!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0303par0427	Thank you. Sir, on this occasion, I respectfully salute all our citizens who listen to us on their screens, and let them be saints like water, sir. My fellow lawmakers, especially I would like to express that since time is very limited, our Ministry with 67,000 employees will, hopefully, continue to serve our citizens, our nation, in the field of forestry, in the field of waterworks, and in the field of meteorology. In particular, there has been a change in the nature of our ministry, and I would like to briefly state that there were two general managers in our ministry, as you know, in the Ministry of Environment and Forestry, as the General Directorate of the ORCY and the General Directorate for Forestification and Erosion Control. They've been infiltrated, but all of these activities have been collected by the Forest General Directorate, a very radical directorate. In our ministry, two directorates -- the General Directorate for Desertization and Anti-Erosion and Water Management -- were established only to plan activities at the centre. I, if you'll excuse me, would like to briefly summarize the activities of our headquarters, starting with the Director General of the Forest. Sir, our Director General of the Forest is one of Turkey's most radical directorates. This year, hopefully, we'll celebrate the year of the 173rd Foundation. In fact, I'm proud to say that in Turkey our forests are growing both as well as as as by the land of wood, while forest fields or wood fortunes are running low all over the world.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0306par0433	Then why are you subtracting 2/B? If it's increasing, why subtract 2/B?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0303par0434	In the past years, our forest presence, 20.2 million hectares, has now risen to 21.6 million hectares.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0306par0435	Go, then, and measure, and measure, if you do not believe.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0303par0436	There is something more remarkable in terms of wood wealth. In the past, 936 million cubic metres of wood have reached 1,400 million cubic metres - thank God - today. Indeed, we have now risen to third place in the world in logging and other forest activities. Therefore, I humbly thank everyone who worked before this, our ministers, our past governments, and all of our present members, to continue their successful work, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0306par0439	Mr. Secretary, why don't you talk to us and look over here?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0303par0440	In particular, I'd like to express with pride that from January 1, 2008, a great campaign began called the Treeworking and Erosion Control Expedition. In fact, by the end of 2012, we planned to work in 2,300,000 hectares, and set a goal for each year. For example, in 2008, when we started mobilization, our goal was to work in a area of 420 million hectares, but all institutions and corporations worked really hard, and in the end, we completed 463,000 hectares that year. By 2009, it was the 170th year of the forest organization. And I thank my friends, and they say to all of our members, "Let's make a record, let's go over 500,000 hectares." When we actually looked at the target, and at the end of the year, at the end of 2009, the whole team actually set a record of 170,1,000 hectares in the 170,000 hectares in the founding of our forest organization. I congratulate all members of our organization. After all, in 2009, when the target was 440, we completed the year with 483,000 hectares. Hopefully, this year we'll be close to 480,000 hectares. So, of course, in the open areas, wooding is the way of rehabilitating the bad forest areas. So far, I've calculated that about 1,900,000 hectares have been worked out, and about 1,400 million saplings have been met with soil. Hopefully, by the end of 2012, at the end of next year, I believe we will overcome this goal. Sir, the plant production has also increased in parallel. In previous years, 117 million saplings were produced annually, while in the nursery, we raised it to 460 million this year. Hopefully, our goal next year is to cross 500 million targets. I'd like to express that in particular. By the way, thank you, of course, to our highly valued deputies, to all of our contributors. Their criticism, advice, and proposals are very important to us, and we follow them carefully. By the way, we've planted a plant at the Ataturk Forest Farm for all of our MPs. I wish him well. (AK PARTY, CHP and MHP rows) From now on, I probably don't have an obelisk in Ankara. Sir, it's not just sapling...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0307par0446	I hope they're not virtual. Give me his address and we'll go see the saplings.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0303par0447	Sir, we gave it to you, and there's a sign of where we planted it. Now, sir, we've actually reached 17.9 million cubic meters of forest produce. We also make a major move in non-woods products, especially in developing our forest villagers, to improve their livelihood levels, to improve living standards. We're going to give our forest peasant a great deal of opportunity in products such as Defne, sage, thyme, or even peanut pine. We exported $120 million last year, but this export target is too small. Hopefully in the coming years, we've prepared an action plan for the burial, the peanut pine, the thyme and the medical aromatic plants, the walnut action plan. Let's hope we have a target in 2015 for over $1 billion.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0308par0449	Are you going to tell the city of Istanbul about the forest land you gave them?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0303par0450	Also, we've built 101 urban forests, 102 honey forests... and you might wonder, "What is a honey forest?" We -- we've just been expressed -- especially in order to keep people alive so that the state can live. We have opened our forests to all beekeepers with logic, by planting them with a special variety of herbs, whether it's chestnut honey, or pine honey, or water, on the edge of it, in a protected area, where we've now established 102 honey forests to produce organic honey. Hopefully, our goal is to turn Turkey into a honey-making and exporting base, and I believe we're going to make it happen. And here's what I'm saying: we're very supportive of our forest peasant. It's only been a production support of 710 million TLK to the forest peasant. There has also been more than 1 billion euros of support, including 299 million TL, and I would like to emphasize that in a nutshell. Cadastro studies are in progress. So far, cadastro studies have been completed in an area of 18.5 million hectares. The work on 2/B is almost complete, and we even referred the bill on 2/B to the Council of Ministers. Hopefully, this issue of gangrene will be resolved by the Supreme Assembly's decision. Of course, sir, as far as the fire-related issues are concerned, we're really successful, so the most successful country in the Mediterranean countries is our country. I'm grateful to these heroes for shielding their breasts from the fire in the jungle. In 2011, there were 1,848 fires and 3,500 hectares burned, but when we consider other countries, Greece, Spain, Portugal, Italy, France, the areas that burned in them are 10 to 20 times ours. I'd like to stress that in particular. Of course, we owe it to very high-tech, which means I have the technology to see the coordinates of the helicopter or the plane going to the fire and the speed at that moment from my room during the fire season. We've really done a great job on this one, too. Besides, we built 1,500 pools so helicopters could easily take the water and go to the fire site. I'd like to point that out. Our General Directorate on desertification and erosion has just been established, but right now, in the wake of desertification and erosion, in our country, really based on erosion... 60 percent of our country is at risk for erosion.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0309par0456	Explain the Veteran compound, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0303par0457	I don't particularly...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0309par0458	Explain the Veteran compound.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0310par0459	Mr. Yilmaz, please...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0303par0460	We've raised the mini parks from 33 to 41.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0309par0461	Explain the headquarters.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0303par0462	We're renovating the wetlands.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0309par0463	We already know about them.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0303par0464	I answered in writing. Wings...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0309par0466	Would you answer in writing, in front of the public?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0311par0467	Mr. Yilmaz, please, we don't have that kind of procedure.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0303par0468	Twenty-eight thousand, sir, our Department of Nature Protection and National Parks, which is 238 thousand wings, that is, the cupcakes and pheasants left to nature.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0309par0469	Mr. Secretary, the Turkish woodsman did this.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0303par0470	Street animals...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0309par0471	Are you taking the Gazi compound or not?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0312par0473	Mr. Yilmaz, please...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0303par0474	For street animals and shelters...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0309par0475	You're killing the bones of Turkish forestmen.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0312par0476	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0303par0477	Dear Congressman, I've listened to you...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0309par0478	Answer me, answer me!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0303par0479	...please sit down and listen to me.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0309par0480	Answer me, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0303par0481	I listened to you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0313par0482	There's no written answer on an oral exam. Tell me, we're taking an oral exam!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0303par0483	Sir, when you ask a verbal question, we'll answer. Now, if you'll excuse me, there's a lot to tell. Look, this is the first time we've ever afforded shelter for stray animals in the woods. As for water management, look, there's been a talk about the Ergene basin, but I'll tell you this: it's about the teenage basin, it cleans industrial wastewater, it's not enough or not enough, but there's no municipal wastewater treatment facility. We've come up with a solution that will allow the DSI General Directorate to do so by making a change in the law, under the orders of our Prime Minister, and we've prepared the Ergene action plan, which is 17 large packages, and I've announced this in Edirne, in Cırlareli, and Tekirdağ. They'll see that, hopefully, just as we've cleaned up the Dwarf, we'll clean it up. But this is also due to the municipality there, and the responsibility of building wastewater treatment facilities and giving them to the buyers is entirely due to the law of the municipalities. But they can't, we will, because we believe in our people, we love our people.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0314par0487	You don't take his money, you do it for free?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0303par0488	It's our duty to do whatever it takes for him. Sir, I'm going to brief you on the water in particular because my time is very short. But let me put it this way: look, we now have 112 billion cubic metres of water that can be used in the year. This is used to water 32 billion cubic metres, 7 billion cubic metres of drinking and using water per year, and 5 billion cubic metres of industrial use. So we're using 44 billion cubic metres of water right now. We've just increased the watering ground to five and a half million hectares. We have 290 HESEs in energy, and we produce 61 billion kilowatts of electricity a year. We've brought the private sector in, and that's something we're really proud of. Currently, the private sector has 1,484 HESEs, a total of 30,000 megawatts, which will produce 110 billion kilowatts of electricity when they are completed. These are clean, renewable energy, and I want to stress it specifically. As for the drinking water, sir, we've written epics in the drinking water. Of course, there's no complaint when this water flows through the houses, but without this water -- be a saint, sir -- you can feel the lack of water, but you can't feel its presence.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0315par0493	No water, no water Minister, look, Hilvan district of Şanlıurfa has no drinking water.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0303par0494	Look, right now we've given 32 million citizens -- except Istanbul -- water, 32 million. Look, Kars, Erzurum, Mush, Siirt, Hakkari, Şemdinli, Şırnak, Mardin Kilis, Gaziantep, Adıyaman, Kahramanmarash...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0315par0496	Come to Hilvan, and come to Hilvan. There is no drinking water for Hilvan, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0303par0497	... Şanlıurfa, Sivas, Tripoli, Zonguldak, Karabuk, Çorum, Çankırı - Ankara -- Mersin, Konya, Karaman, Afyonkarahisar, Isparta, Ulu, Aydın, İzmir, İstanbul, Basement Peninsula...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0316par0498	The water's arsenic, Mr. Secretary, the water's arsenic.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0303par0499	Bursa, Balıkesir, Edirne, Tekirdağ, and even that's not enough. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE)
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0316par0500	What are you going to do with the arsenic waters, Mr. Secretary? You're in danger of cancer, citizen.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0303par0501	In fact, our Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus has also asked for water, hopefully, we've started it... (Applause from the AK PARTY)...from the Alaköpru Dam, 107km away, at sea, 80km, 1.60m across, even with a technology used for the first time in the world, we're going to water our pipeline to Cyprus, to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, to the Turkish Republic. Of course, so far, we've opened 1,335 facilities by the end of 2011. See, it's easy to say -- we don't have time -- we open the dams, 60 ponds, even when we open them; on 10/12/2010 last year, we opened 110 facilities, and this year we opened 111 giant facilities at 11/11/2011. The total cost is $8 billion 365 million. That's the difference. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're out of time, but there's a lot to tell. I wish you all the best of this budget.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0317par0507	What did you do to the arsenic waters, Mr. Secretary? Arsenic means cancer.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0318par0508	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mehmet Ali Editoglu, Hatay MP. Here you are, Mr. Ediboglu.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0319par0512	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Instead of our national interests, I've been promised to criticize the understanding that predates the interests of sovereigns, excludes the House, reduces foreign policy to government policy. In January, in the Middle East, the Arab people went out on the streets with more demands for freedom and democracy. These demands were initially revolutionary and righteous demands. If they had strong public support behind them, those demands would be met, or as there were dozens of examples in history, the people would form their own power, but that did not happen. Middle Eastern geography has been subjected to heavy attacks by imperial forces. Now the Arab spring has turned into winter and has become a struggle for the influence of sovereign forces. Today, in the Middle East, we are witnessing internal conflicts, power shifts, territorial interference, ethnic and religious tensions. For example, considering the final point of Turkey-Syrian relations, what happened quickly when the two countries were almost at a point of integration? In two days. There's only one answer: that's what the imperial forces wanted. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers will have learned from other countries that the Syrian administration has tried to meet the legitimate demands of the people and the public has withdrawn from the streets, but we have met a new term in foreign policy: it is late. In fact, that statement was a confirmation of reforms being done. The dominant forces who often used this expression, and unfortunately Turkey, in Syria, gave open support to armed groups, whose problem was not reform, but the departure of Assad. This was followed by the unfortunate statement of our Prime Minister, who said "Suriye is our internal matter." Armed groups have increased their actions, security forces have responded with guns. Civilians, terrorists, soldiers, police, a total of 4,000 people lost their lives in Syria. Dear lawmakers, it's a common demand for us all to stop blood at once, but put down the gun on one side. If you give weapons to others and back them up, the blood won't stop. Both sides must be pressured to drop their weapons. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have seen in Libya that the occupation and democracy did not arrive, that they could not come. In NATO attacks, 65 thousand Libyans were killed as an excuse to stop the blood. The government has changed in Libya, but there is still turmoil and bloodshed, but something has changed in Libya; oil has been divided among the imperial states, and the Israeli Embassy opens in Libya after forty-three years. Dear MPs, therefore, democracy must come to Syria by choice, and let us contribute. After the breakdown of relations with Syria, our border counties are rapidly worsening the economy. In particular, the government ignores the cries of Hatay, Gaziantep, Milis, and Urbana. We now observe that unemployment and trafficking are increasing in our border counties. Just yesterday, a British newspaper reported that smugglers from Hatay to Syria passed weapons on the border three times a day. Gaziantep Mayor's statement to the Evening newspaper has reached the cries of businessmen in Hatay, and the people in the luggage trade and the head of the Church Chamber of Commerce. How much longer are you gonna listen to this? Minister, I ask you, where is Israel's apology for the Blue Marmara? What about our red lines in the natural gas rigs in the eastern Mediterranean? Where's the Piri Reis ship? Will the missile shield in the sphere protect Turkey or Israel? Who will protect whom when Iran's statement is in the open? Did your book of Strategic Depth sink into the deep waters of the eastern Mediterranean with the tragedy of the Blue Marmara? Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have decided that the occupation of Syria...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0320par0525	Thank you, Mr. Ediboglu.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0319par0526	I call his stubbornness peace, peace in the dorm, peace in the world. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit05spe0320par0528	Thank you. Congressmans, the talks in the 11th round are complete. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0320par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 37th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the 2012 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2010 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission and the government are in place. Congressmans, we're going to ask questions now. Mr. Havutça, Mr. Erdogan, Mr. Illum, Mr. Varlı, Mr. Kuşoglu - Mr. Aslanoğlu is out of the system again - Mr. Dibek, Mr. Akçay, Mr. Demir, Mr. Topcu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Çınar, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. A. Yilmaz, Mr. S. Yilmaz, Mr. Eryılmaz, Mr. Acar and Mr. Oz are the first MPs to enter the system. Mr. Havutça, please. Ten minutes to ask questions.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0321par0008	Thank you, Mr. President. You've been urging the Syrian President and his administration to take democratic steps for five or six years, the last six hours you've seen him, the last six hours you haven't been able to get results, the Assad said he didn't keep his word, he didn't act sincere, he didn't take the democratic steps that were expected, and you're basing it on these reasons. What did you and Bezar Assad meet for six hours? Why haven't you made a statement to the public about the content of this meeting? What do you intend to do about this meeting from now on? In what ways did Assad promise you and not fulfill it? In what ways was he not sincere? What democratic steps do you expect him to take and ask for? A neighbour and sister say a country has been attacked by armed attacks on police and soldiers...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0320par0012	Thank you. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0322par0014	Thank you, Mr. President. My first question is to Mr. Eroglu. You promised in every election, especially in Osmaniye, to solve their homes with a plateau in the woodland of the pedestrians. They don't suffer from occupation, like the headquarters of your party, they face fines and prison sentences. When will this problem be resolved? My second question to Mr. Davutoglu. There is a human rights problem in Syria. Iraqi Turks, Western Thracian Turks, East Turks also have problems. Will you interfere with the internal affairs of those countries for them? When are you really going to take care of the Turkish world? My second question, contrary to Turkish Republic's thesis, the Greek Cypriots will step up the rotating EU presidency. I'm sure you'll repeat your enthusiasm after making the enemy of Islam and Muhammad Rasmussen the Secretary General of NATO. What strategy will you follow in the rotating presidency of the Greek Cypriots? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0323par0021	Thank you. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0324par0023	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking Mr. Eroglu my questions. During the election, you opened the Akköpru Dam, saying, "The Gap of the Ege," but in your earlier statement, you also explained that we had lost the GAP of the Aegean. Do you plan to build any irrigation canals in this area for the watering of farmland in the Akköpru basin? As you opened this dam again, you destroyed the bridge that provided the transportation of the villagers, the five or six villages there. Are you going to solve the transportation of these villagers? The HES, which you planned on Round Tea, has been halted by a verdict. Will your insistence on making round tea HES continue? Of course, the balance in the region will be disturbed if the HES (HES), which you have planned on Eyzen Tea and Charms Tea, are made. How are you going to stop them? Do you plan to use solar energy and wind energy instead of wasting time in the area with these little HESECs? Will you support the solid waste project at the Basement Peninsula? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0325par0029	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0326par0031	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Davutoglu to: 1) How will you respond to possible international intervention in Syria? 2) What measures have you taken for 183 Turkish trucks seized in Syria? Mr. Şahine: Is there a work by your Ministry on the employment of a second member of the family of martyrs and veterans? Mr. Erogluna: 1) Have your promises to hair goat manufacturers who have been victimised by your ministry been forgotten? What will your Ministry do about it? 2) Why has it not been done for two years that the rising of the Caspian Pond in Galilee has been five metres? What's wrong? 3) Are you disturbed by the grim view of the forests made in the name of martyrs? What are you going to do about it? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0327par0039	Thank you. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0328par0041	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking Mr. Eroglu: The Council of Ministers issued in 2006, from the very important settlements in Adana, from Beauty, Karslı, Kurttepe, Kenan Universe neighborhoods, which are one of the most beautiful settlements in the centre of Adana, where there are sub-prime buildings and beautiful restaurants -- which are considered wildlife, Mr. Secretary. Ten-story apartments, a subsidiary building, the best restaurants, are covered by wildlife. Construction's stopped there right now, and nothing can be done. He wants you to get rid of this sacrifice as soon as possible, dear fellow citizens. Do you have a suggestion, a study? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0329par0044	Thank you. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0330par0046	Thank you. My first question to Mr. Eroglu is whether there's a programme or what year is the Gökpınar dam scheduled to begin construction? Secondly, I'd like to ask Mr. Foreign Minister: Mr. Minister, every time I listen to you, I'm genuinely concerned, not when I read your book, but when I listen to you, because today you also gave me information about your Iranian colleague, but if you'll pay attention to the information, the goodwill messages of your Iranian colleague, the good faith messages of the state and the Turkish nation, no message of goodwill regarding the government. You know what that means. It's about your person, but it's not about the government. I want to know the concrete consequences of this proactive policy. If you tell us in a closed session or in a way, it's a national issue, so let's support you, but we're never really seeing the concrete results. We'd love it if you could tell us about it in some way. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0331par0050	Thank you. Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0332par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Eroglu about the lore: Now, there is a very important problem in Kırklareli that threatens water and forests, which are also Mr. Eroglu's domain. We have Visa, Pınarhisar, other counties, especially our forests towards Istracas, but there are many quarryes in these counties. Both the forests are being destroyed now -- if you go from up there, you see the helicopter -- and they're threatening the water supply, and they're doing a boom operation. You don't give them licenses, the Department of Energy does. Why is this happening? So the forests are being destroyed, water resources are threatened, nothing to do with you. Why don't you take this under advisement? I'm asking you for information on this. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0333par0055	Thank you. Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0334par0057	My question to Mr. Foreign Minister: We see that your government is not active enough to deal with the issues of the Turkish republics and the Turkish population in neighbouring countries. It's possible to see it in the book you distribute. Do you plan to do more active and active work on these matters? And also, do we have any neighbors with zero problems, which one is they? My other question to Mr. Eroglu is: What measures have been taken under the Gediz Basin Protection Action Plan to prevent pollution? Where are the studies at? How much is the source set aside in 2012? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0335par0061	Thank you. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0336par0063	Mr. Şahin, how many shelters are there in Şanlıurfa? Two: municipalities that exceed the population of 50,000 must build shelters. How many shelters have there been in Turkey so far? Do you plan to sanction the municipalities for this, for municipalities that don't? My question to the Minister of the Forest is that the irrigation units are being privatized. Will the companies who buy these troops ask the villagers for money to water them, so the villagers will pay for watering water? Aydın, will the property problem of the villagers who produce peanuts in the province of Mugla be solved in your Ministry? The rate of forest cut has exceeded 10 per cent in tourist destinations such as Datça, Dalaman, Fethiye. I wonder if the forest areas here for forty-nine years have increased, is there a relationship between them? Will tourism suffer in this regard? My question to the Foreign Minister is that we are with the people of Syria. You say, "We are with the people of Syria." On the other hand, you support and organize opponents. Isn't that a hypocritical approach? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0337par0070	Thank you. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0338par0072	Thank you. On what terms were these handed over to the mayor of Istanbul, even though the mined pits belong to the forest? How much money does Istanbul City receive from the land that has been poured out here? Where does he spend his money? Two, I'm asking the State Department: How much help has Somalia been brought in, how much help has been given? Many of the ships that brought help here have not been stung, workers have been victimised. Two: You said you gave Libya 300 million dollars to the press. Who are you paying for? How did you give it to who? I want your documents on who was given this money. Otherwise, when a serious power comes to power in Turkey, it will answer for it. Are there arrested security guards in Syria? Why were the security guards arrested? I also want to point out that you, Ahmet Bey, are small, and you can't afford to put Syria and Iran and Turkey into battle. Take care of him and your foot...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0339par0080	Thank you. The question-answer process is over. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0340par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. They asked about the details of our meeting with Mr. Havutça Bezar Assad. Well, first of all, I'd like to thank you for reminding me of that and for giving me this opportunity. When we arrived in April, we met for nearly four hours, and in August, we actually met for about six hours. Our Prime Minister has met before. At least this shows that since our Prime Minister's meeting in January, we've put a long shift into negotiations with Mr. Bashir Assad. This means that when we wake up one morning, as Mr. Kilicdaroglu said, relations with Syria are not broken. For nine months, we encouraged the Syrian administration to listen to their own people using all the channels, using all our means. There was only one thing we wanted: please, listen to your own people, make peace with the people on the street, not treat them as a threat, but a government that treats its own people as a threat cannot be permanent. Yeah, we agreed on a road map there. They promised to stop the violence immediately. In three days, the soldiers will leave all Syrian cities, except Humus. They have stated that they will be opened to the press, after the Hamah, after the Deyrizor, after the Lazkiye. On the first day, they came out of Hama. We immediately said that we appreciated it, but after the second day, after a huge bombing in Deyrizor, Lazkiye, we found that it would not help to discuss these issues with the Syrian regime.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0341par0087	Was there ever a democracy in Syria?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0340par0088	The road map we agreed on was to hold parliamentary elections in 2012 this year. It's the month of December, they didn't do it, they didn't do it, they didn't do it. All of this... we need to talk to Bezar Assad, we need to talk to Mr. Prime Minister. Despite our efforts, our technical assistance, 5,000 people have died since March, 5,000 people in Syria. Why did our relations with Syria get tense one morning for someone? The question may be true, but for us, 5,000 lives were killed by the Syrian regime, pointing a gun at their own people.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0342par0090	What happened in Iraq?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0340par0091	There was no way we could keep quiet about it, so after that, with the Syrian people...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0343par0093	Why did he send the ambassadors to America and France back?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0342par0094	A million and a half, five grand?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0344par0095	Congressmans, you've asked questions, please listen, Mr. Secretary, he's responding.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0343par0096	Why did he send the ambassadors to America and France back?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0345par0097	Now, you've asked for all this... detail of what we've been seeing with Bashir Assad.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0346par0098	You're asking, he's answering. Get the answer.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0345par0099	Then why ask if you don't want to hear the details? (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) We agreed with Mr. Bezar Assad to both improve the security conditions and halt the attacks as well as an action plan for the implementation of reforms. We increased our warnings to the Syrian regime on the fourth day, in order to protect the Syrian people and because of our historical ties with the Syrian people.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0347par0100	America and France sent their ambassadors back, and we're gonna send them back?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0345par0101	Then we increased international contact. If it's about opposition, they're organized; they're building their own ground, their own work.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0347par0103	If you send it tomorrow, we'll ask for the ambassador, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0345par0104	We don't have a tradition of getting involved in the affairs of any country. Mr. Kuruturk knows very well that as the Iraqi co-ordinator, he did this as a government duty when he was assigned to meet opposition groups in Iraq in 2003. He's never had any objections. We will meet with all the peoples in the Middle East, all the groups, and we will continue to see each other. They are the people we are destined for.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0347par0105	You went blind into the Syrian business. It's a shame about your arguments.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0345par0106	Mr. Türkoglu asked about our relations with the Iraqi Turks in East Turkistan, West Thrace. Yes, we were also interested in what happened in East Turkistan, and we talked to the Chinese administration, and I went to Kashgar, and to Urumchi, and to our brothers there, and we talked about everything, and we talked about it. As for West Thrace, go to the Hawk village and ask them how we looked at West Thrace, how we were greeted there, and how they looked at it. We also made the first official visit to West Thrace. It was our Prime Minister who visited West Thrace as his first official Prime Minister. And about the Iraqi Turks...
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0348par0108	Why can't Mrs. Rabia come to Turkey?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0349par0109	Greece and the international group of friends have been removed, and how is that possible?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0350par0110	Mr. Secretary, our other ministers will respond, please.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0351par0111	I'm almost done, so we agreed to give it a minute or two. Our policy on membership in the Greek sector is clear and clear. By June, if there is no solution, we have stated that if the next Greek Cypriot administration takes the rotating presidency, we will not be able to deal with the Cypriot administration, and our position is clear, and there is no turning back. Finally, Mr. Kuşoglu said the statement regarding Iran is only about the state. Again, I didn't read the entire text, so I suggest you read this. Mr Gul, Erdogan and Davutoglu; I think our Prime Minister Erdogan and I represent the government of the Republic of Turkey. There's also a direct reference to our government here. And when you say that the two countries in the last few years have been in an extremely good state of affairs, it probably means intergovernmental relations. No one can undermine our relations with Iran, and no one can undermine our friendship with Iran for one reason or another. My respects.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0352par0116	Mr. Secretary, why is the West returning ambassadors?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0353par0117	Where did that 300 million go, $300 million in pocket, where did it go?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0351par0118	Ask him, and we'll answer in writing.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0352par0119	If the Western world spins, what are we going to do about the Syrian business? We need a jug of water, Mr. Secretary, a jug is not enough!
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0354par0120	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0355par0121	Mr. President, I have been promised to answer for the fallen relatives asked by Mr. Light. As soon as our Ministry for Martyrs and Veterans was established as soon as the head of the department was established, a commission of all departments related to the Ministry of General Staff, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Labor, the relatives of the martyrs was launched. At the end of the commission, a draft was created specifically for the simplification of legislation, the resolution of the problem in the implementation. In this draft is the second employment of our fellow martyrs, as my congressman said, as our Prime Minister explained. In addition, there was a very strong design in this draft for those who were victimized before and after the fight against terrorism before and after the operation to be processed by the Anti-Terror Law, and for civilians to take advantage of the Anti-Terror Law as well. After the budget, hopefully we'll transfer it to the Council of Ministers and bring it to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey quickly. I would also like to answer the question Mr. Demir. About the shelters. When the Local Governments Act came out in 2005, at the end of the motion issued by women lawmakers, there was a legal infrastructure for the opening of shelters in more than 50,000 places, but when we looked at the number so far, the number of shelters in 2002 is 53, in 2011; civil society has 80 women shelter houses, including 3 municipalities, 24 beds. We're going to go and rent it quickly -- because when we do, it's going to be a waste of time -- and we're going to quickly solve the opening of the shelter with the pursuit of our Congressman Zeynep Karahan Nice and our Governor. We're also restructuring shelters. We will quickly resolve the problems of quality and quality-based practice in 2012. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0356par0125	Mr. Secretary, you still haven't responded to the situation in migratory villages.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0357par0126	Sir, this is Mr. Türkoğlu's work on the Ottoman MP is being carried out for a new arrangement on the plateaus. Mr. Erdogan, you know about Dalaman Plain, we've just finished the Akköpru Dam, and there's also watering and revision planning on Dalaman Plain. Hopefully, we'll be bidding in 2012. Of course, we comply with the court's decisions if the court decides on the HESEs. Of course, the sun and the wind... they're already working on the wind. We were responsible for drinking water about the basement. We watered the entire basement peninsula with a hundred miles [100 km] of Jesus line. Solid waste is now in the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization. Mr. Light, you know, we've made a legal arrangement about the hair goat, for sitting down. We're providing support, so it's possible to graze with a plan. I also signed the discovery of the rising and watering of the Caspian Pond in Iconium. We're guarding the jungles for martyrs. A great forest of martyrs is being built in Simav, as you speak.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0358par0132	I hope so, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0357par0133	Mr Varli, regarding the wildlife, I've seen it in its place now. Indeed, I believed that a study should be done about it. There's work to be done. Hopefully, when the planning is over, we'll conclude. Seven-Eyed Dam complete, you know. The transmission channel for watering and watering 4,500 hectares will begin in 2012. Anyway, right now, we're gonna lay down the groundwork soon, and we're still working on it. Mr. Kusoglu, the planning revision of the Polatlı Gökpınar Dam continues, and we will tender construction in 2012. Mr. Dibek, I know about the quarry in the cyclare, but you know, they're not on the responsibility of our Ministry, they're licensed by MiGEM. We're being thorough about it, too. We don't declare some places a forest of conservation and give out inappropriate areas. Mr. Akçay, of course it's about Gediz. Since I don't have time, there's a very long note of information, I hope I'll answer it.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0359par0138	You'll be fine. Answer it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0357par0139	There is no privatisation of iron irrigation troops. I'd like to emphasize that in a nutshell. Of course, in other matters, you know for forty-nine years, it's given by the Tourism Act, but there's a limit, we respect that limit. Mr. Young, especially according to the law issued here, the transfer and management of the hafiyat land is entirely owned by the capital, not only in Istanbul, but in all major cities.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0360par0141	No, no. Forest field... how do you get the rent from there?
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0357par0142	We don't just give it to Istanbul, we give it to İzmir, we give it everywhere. You should know that. I just signed Izmir.
tbmm-2011-12-14sit06spe0361par0143	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the question-answer process is complete. Now, I'm going to have you read separately and vote on the parting of budgets in the 11th round, respectively. I submit to your votes that the State Department will take part in the central management budget in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 1. ▪ State Department Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 1,167,555-310 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 55,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.600,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 1,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 70,730.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 96,535,690 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 11.471,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 1,351,947,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs was adopted in 2012 as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the State Department's central management account of 2010 will be transferred to its specifics: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ State Department Final Account for Central Management 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of 2010 have been adopted. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy, I would like to submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2012... Those who don't... Sustained. 24 THE FAMILY AND SOCIAL POLITIES 1. ▪ Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 179.693.700 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 26.695,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 8.635.324.300 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 8.841,713.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy was adopted in 2012 as part of the central management budget. Social Services and Child Protective Services Department General Directorate 2010, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. SOCIAL SURVITIONS AND CHILDREN'S ACTIVITY OF GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1. ▪ Social Services and Child Welfare Institution General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Department of Social Services and Child Protective Services has been adopted as part of the central management account in 2010. I submit to your votes that the President of the Responsibility Administration in 2010 will be transferred to the section of the final account of the central administration: Those who don't... Sustained. 1. ▪ Central Management Final Account for the President of the Responsibility Administration 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The section of the central management account of 2010 has been adopted. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of 2010 will be transferred to the chapters of the National Bureau of Family and Social Research: Those who don't... Sustained. FAMILY AND SOCIAL RESEARCH GOVERNMENT 1. ▪ National Directorate for Family and Social Research 2010 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Department of Family and Social Research was adopted as part of the central management account in 2010. I'd like to submit to your votes to the section of the central management account for 2010: Those who don't... Sustained. 1. ▪ Women's Status General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of 2010 were adopted. I submit to your votes that the Office of Social Aid and Solidarity of the Central Government of 2010 be transferred to the final account departments: Those who don't... Sustained. SOCIAL HELPING AND APPLAUSE 1. ▪ Social Aid and Solidarity General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Department of Social Aid and Solidarity of the Central Government of 2010 has been adopted into parts of the final account. The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs has voted to take part in the central management budget in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 33- ORMAN AND WATER WORKING 1. ▪ Forest and Waterworks Ministry Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 9.158,623.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 505,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,700,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 04 Economic Affairs and Services 440,449.000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Environmental Protection Services 72,770,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 9.674.067,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs was adopted in 2012 as part of the central management budget. The Ministry of Environment and Forestry in 2010, I would like to submit to your votes... Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ The Ministry of Environment and Forests Final Account for Central Management 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Environment and Forestry was adopted in 2010 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Forestry General Directorate will take part in the central management budget in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 40.17- ORMAN GOVERNMENT 1. ▪ Forest General Directorate Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 6.286,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 119.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 1,855,894,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 1,862,299.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Forest General Directorate was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. [[TL]] 03 Attempted and Property Profits 293,843,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 1,305,299.000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 262.152,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Capital Savings 5,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 1,861,299.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Forest General Directorate was adopted as part of the central budget in 2012. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of 2010 will be transferred to the chapters of the Forest General Directorate: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ Forest General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. In 2010, part of the central administration's final account was adopted. I submit to your votes that the State Water Affairs General Directorate will be transferred to the central management budget in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 40.57 - AUDIENCE SURVOLUTION 1. ▪ State Water Affairs General Directorate 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 30.131,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 657,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 19.500,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 7.236.961,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 692.752,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 415,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 7.980.416,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Department of State Water Affairs was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 82,369.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 7.827.165,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 65,882,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Capital Savings 5,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 7.980.416,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Department of State Water Affairs was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. I'd like to submit to your votes that the State Water Affairs General Directorate in 2010 will take part in the final account of central management: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ State Water Affairs General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2010 I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: C E T V E L Those who accept the CECAN (A) ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The State Water Affairs General Directorate of 2010 has been adopted into parts of its final account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Departments of the Central Management Budget of 2012, the General Directorate of Meteorology, those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 33.75 (METEOROLOGY GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 1. ▪ Meteorology General Directorate Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 168.904,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 94,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,100,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 07 Health Services 196,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 171.294,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The General Directorate of Meteorology was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Departments of the Central Management Account for 2010, the General Directorate of Meteorology... Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ State Weather Office General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2010 I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: C E T V E L Those who accept the CECAN (A) ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The General Directorate of State Meteorological Affairs was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2010. Members of the MPs, as well as the budgets of central management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Forest General Directorate and State Water Affairs General in 2012 and the exact accounts of the Central Government budgets of 2010, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of Forests and Waterworks and the General Directorate of Meteorology in 2012 and the Central Management Office of Social Services and Child Welfare Management, the Office of the Responsibilities and Social Research, Women's Status General Directorate, the Ministry of Social Aid and Solidarity, the Ministry of Environment and Forest Affairs and the General Office of State Metheorology in 2010 have been approved. I wish them well. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Thursday (December 15th 2011) to discuss the budget and final accounts of the organisations and to discuss the unvoted articles of the 2012 Central Management Budget Law. I'm closing the assembly at 00, and I wish you a good evening.
