tbmm-2011-12-15sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly. The first roll call didn't have enough meetings. Now we're going to recheck with the electronic device. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the Central Management Budget Bill of 2012 and the Central Management Computation Bill of 2010. We're having a round of interviews today according to the schedule. The 12th round includes the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, Ministry of Landing and Housing, the Office of Tapu and Kadastro, the President of the Special Environment Protection Agency, the Ministry of Finance, the Chairman of the IRS, the Public Contraction Agency, the Ministry of Privatisation Management, and the Finance Budget. (x) 87 and 88 S. The Numbered Basmazes and Funding Cetves are added to the 31st Consistency Charter, dated 08/12/2011. The commission and the government are in place. Members of parliament must write the passwords to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour until the end of the talks, and then press the promise-seeking button on the screen after presenting their fingerprints. It's for your information. Now, I'm going to make you read Article 2 (IRS and Finance): MADDE 2 - (1) Influences: In accordance with the Law (B), it is included in the Law No. 5018; A) (I) The income of the general budget on the ruler is 322,884.924,000 Turkish liras, B) (II) private budgetary administrations' revenues are 6,090,992.350 Turkish liras, a total of 39,469,304,000 Turkish liras, including 33,378,311,650 Turkish liras, and a total of 39,469,304,000 Turkish liras. The revenues of regulatory and auditory institutions on C) (III) are estimated to be 2,027,897,000 Turkish liras. The net financing of special budgetary administrations on the table number 5018 (II) is estimated to be 68,600,000 Turkish liras, as shown on the table marked "F" (F). Congressmans, I'm reading the names of the members of the 12th round on behalf of groups and individuals: On behalf of Republican People's Party Gruba, Çanakkale MP Mustafa Serdar Soydan, Eskişehir MP Kazım Kurt, Tunceli MP Kamer Yüz, Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoğlu. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, İstanbul MP Sabatat Tuncel, Diyarbakır MP Emine Mufa, Diyarbakır MP Nursel Aydoğan. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Bingöl MP Eşref Taş, İzmir MP Aydın Şengül, Burdur MP Hasan Hami Yıldırım, Kayseri MP Ahmet Ekzizkaya, Bitlis MP Vedat Demiröz, İstanbul MP Ahmet Baha Öğken, Erzurum MP Cengiz Yavilioğlu, Sakarya MP Şaban Gşeli. On behalf of the People's Movement Party Group, Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz, Manisa MP Erkan Akçay, Tekirdağ MP Bulent Belen. In the name of his subjects: Lehine, İstanbul MP Erol Kaya; against Mr Mustafa Kalaycı. The first word now belongs to Çanakkale MP Mustafa Serdar Soydan on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Soydan. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0002par0060	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. My respects to all of you. I'm in love with crazy people, "The heart of love is in pursuit." So they drew him up to the gallows, She's young. Ankara is called Kara, This wound is another wound, Will it be slaughtered, Erdal? [[Applause from CHP rows]] I honor Erdal Eren, who was taken to the gallows at the age of seventeen by fascist coupgers of September 12th. Dear friends, today we're going to discuss the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, responsible for the air we breathe, the water we drink, the land we feed on, what they can't do, what they can't do, what they can't do. It should not be forgotten that the environment is not an unlimited resource offered to individuals. It is an important value to be offered to all mankind and to be left to future generations. The rapidly increasing population of the world, unplanned industrialisation and unsanitary urbanization, nuclear trials, regional wars, agricultural medicines used to increase efficiency, artificial fertilizers and chemical substances are causing environmental problems to arise. The decaying natural life, contaminated air, water, and soil reach the extent that will negatively affect the lives of living creatures. One of the key sources of environmental problems is rapid population growth. Turkey is one of the highest population growth rates among OECD countries. According to UN population estimates, Turkey's population is expected to rise to 92 million in 2025. How will understanding, which today recommends three children to each family, solve the environmental problems of the population approaching 100 million in 2025? We all deserve to know that. How are we going to get the fresh air, water, and land that we can't get to 74 million today to the population that is approaching 100 million? Dear friends, rapid population growth brings unplanned urbanization. Urban habitats created to satisfy the need for increasing populations are causing urban problems. The TOKI, founded to provide the most basic need for housing, to prevent deviant urbanization, to be a leader and an example of the formation of modern habitats, is sadly far from carrying out its mission. The TOKI, which set out to create cheap and modern housing for low-income families, has been transformed into an institution during the AKP Power period, which builds luxury housing in large cities, lays a runt on the precious land of the state, and transfers it to predetermined subsidiaries. The TOKI, which is expected to serve within the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, has been removed from the province of the Ministry of Urbanism. I think Mr. Prime Minister hasn't been able to trust Mr. Secretary of State, who's been running for years on urbanism. Dear friends have brought with them the problems of unplanned urbanization, sewage, infrastructure problems, and the collection and storage of solid waste. Twisted urbanization has revealed unplanned industrialization. Industrial and industrial areas without adequate infrastructure and organisation are causing significant environmental pollution. In our country, especially in large cities, the use of low-grade fuel and dense urban traffic take air pollution to huge levels. Air pollution was needed to be reduced after the spread of natural gas use, but the poor coals distributed by the AKP government in order to obtain political gains have again prevented the spread of natural gas use by the AKP government on natural gas. This leads to increased air pollution. Dear friends, I want you to pay close attention to what I'm about to say: Every living, breathing creature in Ankara is slowly poisoned. The health of Ankara's people, especially the children, the elderly, is seriously threatened. The air we breathed in Ankara has exceeded border values for 27 days in the last three months, and for five days, unfortunately, it has appeared above the warning threshold. Does Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Health know of these measurements? If so, why wasn't the warning issued? Today, I warn those responsible for the toxic air we breathe in Ankara and leave this chair with a historical responsibility. Stop poisoning the people of D.C., yourself and your children, and tell them to stop at any cost to the dirty air. Dear friends, Ankara's transportation problem, one of the most important reasons for dirty weather, is still unresolved by modern subway lines. The biggest responsibility for this is the Metropolitan Mayor who has been in constant service for 17 years, and the Minister of Transport, who has been in constant service for ten years, meaning that he alone is the AKP Impotent. Dear friends, I'd like to talk to you about another important matter. At a time when limiting carbon emissions to avoid global warming is crucial, Turkey is ranked first in industrial sectors, at 215.9 million tonnes per year, compared to European Union countries in total carbon dioxide emissions. Our water supply, which is vital, is increasing. Twenty years ago, 4,000 cubic metres of water per person fell, while 1,400 cubic metres of water fell today. Now, our country is among water-poor countries. Biodiversity in our country is threatened by soil decay in various ways and the beginning of natural resources. The protected area ratio to all areas is only 1 percent. As a result of erosion, 1.4 billion tonnes of fertile land are lost in our country each year. About 100,000 acres of forest are burned each year, while about 7,000 acres of forest are destroyed due to fielding and settlement. Dear friends, I'd like to briefly address the environmental problems of our country and warn the government. First, the lack of sewage infrastructure in our eastern and southeast provinces, the completion of wastewater and decontamination facilities, the removal of wastewater and solid waste from the Artvin Çoruh River, and the protection of Seyhan and Ceyhan rivers in Adana. Adıyaman, originally from Elbia's thermal plant, should be prevented from wasting any time in the province of Adıyaman due to heavy use of cheap coal. In Edirne, measures must be taken quickly to remove Ergene River from its waste form. Dear friends, I'd like to make a final mention of the Canakkale province and its surroundings. The search of thermal plants and Kazdağs, which produce in a very small geography in Çanakkale, and the unplanned industrialization of the region, threatened the air, water, and soil of the region. Our province of Çanakkale, where hundreds of thousands shed their blood for the land of our homeland, faces a growing threat of environment every day. Let us not spread harmful dust clouds, chemical wastes, and cyanide into the waters of Çanakkale, soil, and air. Dear friends, as a result, let's not cut off the water in the HES, let's not ruin the Black Sea, and let's not build thermal plants that produce the world's abandoned technologies and cheap coals near the farmlands and settlements. Let's make more use of renewable energy sources in energy, avoid casualties and fugitives. Let's not need nuclear power plants that the EU countries discuss and the world can't fully agree on, and let's live with the need for communities to develop in harmony with the environment, taking a whole approach to climate change policies that are shaped within the framework of sustainable development. I want to thank the sensitive environmental volunteers in Çanakkale, in our country and in all parts of the country, civil society organizations, and all the press members who approach the issue objectively. Dear friends, remember, as God the Most High does not punish his servants in an instant, so nature waits patiently, and one day he slaps his hand so suddenly that man can't even know where he's coming from. The world can live without man, but man cannot live without nature. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0003par0089	Thank you, Mr. Soydan. Eskişehir MP Kazim Kurt. Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0004par0093	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party regarding the Public Contraction Agency. I salute you all. Law number 4734, published on January 22, 2002, has been adopted since the release of Articles 1 and Interim 5 and the others since 1/1/2003. The main reason for the law is the drafting of a broad new law on public tenders, as it is seen as 83 dates and 2886 State Contraction Laws, which are unable to respond to the changing and developing needs of our day, that it fails to cover all public institutions, that it does not include all public institutions and international tenders, and that it determines the procedures and principles of public enterprises that are subject to public law or under public control or using public resources. The basic principles are transparency, competition, equal treatment, security, secrecy, public inspection, proper and timely supplying of needs, efficient use of resources. For this purpose and with these principles, the Public Contraction Agency has been established. In the beginning, it was an independent, administrative and financial autonomy. Members of the board were appointed by the Council of Ministers of various institutions, but the Court of Public Resignation has been re-organised under the law that regulates the entire organization, and has been changed to Article 53 (53) of Law No. 661 under Article 57. The number of members of the board has been reduced from 10 to 9, and the appointment of all board members by the Minister of Finance has been made by the Council of Ministers. In this way, the Public Contraction Agency has become an institution that has lost its independence, its autonomy, and its entirely owned by the Ministry of Finance, and the law on this institution has been constantly changed. Now I'm going to try to tell you the reasons for these changes. The AKP, who was in power on 3 November 2002, did not want to be held by such an independent, administrative and financial autonomy institution, which therefore began to go around the back of the law and its institution. The changes began in order, adding new exceptions once a month, and the new law has made all of the new jobs that have been done to the point that Law 4734 will not be implemented, as if new tenders do not need transparency, transparency, equal treatment. However, as the exceptions increased, abuses began to multiply. There are almost no tenders left for 4734. As such, the European Progress Report began to criticize. In this year's latest report, he was criticised in the Fifth Fasil, and expressed a view that public tenders are not in line with European Union standards. When we looked at whether only the Republican People's Party is doing these criticisms, or whether they're actually doing them, the State Board of Control has supervised and made specific assessments of operations and operations in 2006, 2007, 2008. 17/2/2010 has filed a report on the date and number 9, three hundred and sixty-seven pages. According to this report: 1) The tender was tendered after the work was done and completed at İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality. 2) Turkey's Coal Company has rented coal mines without contract. 3) The Ministry of Agriculture has not been followed by law or rules in meat imports. 4) The bus purchase of the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality is strictly against the law. 5) The Department of Earth's Equipment was held by a total violation of the law. Does the Public Contraction Agency really look at things as an objective and impartial independent institution? There's also a no in the audit board report. Central government agencies are especially discriminated against Republican People's Party municipalities. The most concrete example of this situation is the tender for the Izmir subway, which cannot be completed by the KİK at all times, but it took place after a very long time. This time, it has been determined by the presidential State Control Board that the decisions of the CIC have been discriminated against in their decisions, and it has been said that some decisions on the rules of the Kurul have been made without following the rules of procedure, that they contradict each other despite the same concrete facts, and that the same concept is defined in a different way and in a different way that will produce different legal results. With that respect, the board's decisions should be given qualified stability to ensure legal and impartialness. Again, one of these findings has been stated in earlier episodes of the study where KİK records are incomplete and wrong, but the Presidential State Control Board has determined that this error was intentional. To continue with the examples: While the tender is being held within the Sicihisar-Eskişehir-Bosizuk road, the tender price has been increased by 40 per cent, and after this increase, the Eskişehir-Saricakaya state road has been added here, same contractors, without contract. Get out of the swamp in front of the airport, and the bridge is again under the same framework, without contract, carried out by the same company. The most important thing that surrounds the Public Contraction Agency and the law is seen in the State Supplies Office and TOKI. The State Supplies Office is not the nationality of the company, which is supposed to be privatisation. And despite all opposition from public, democratic environments, why does it want to use the state supply office, which is all of its capital, to keep it more alive, to exploit it, and to use it in the games of the AKP-based municipalities? Again, TOKI is completely out of the law in areas that used to be only public housing, and now has fully covered all of its projects. Therefore, 31 per cent of Turkey's tenders have been assessed outside this law and have been tried to carry out a portion of over 100 billion euros unregistered. Now, are we just saying that? No. We also said in our election declaration that the Public Resignation Act will be redesigned on the basis of EU standards. We said that last year's budget talks, Mr. Oğuz Oyan made the same criticisms, but were ignored, and in the Republican People's Party programme, he suggested that the public tender system must be reorganized under the principles of equality, justice and transparency. The AKP's government has made public tenders a means of subsistence by smuggling them out of transparency and control. Public tenders are being distributed to subsidiaries and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0005par0116	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Tunceli MP Kamer Young. Here you go, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0006par0120	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the privatisation agency budget. My respects to all of you. Now, dear friends, of course, government lines are empty. No government. Now, I wish Mr. Bkent had been here because when Mr. Abdullah vetoed a law, he said: "No MP dares to bring it." After him, Mr. Recep says: "The greatest is not Abdullah, but the greatest is Recep Tayyip." How did you come up with that?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0007par0123	When does it say?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0006par0124	And he makes a statement, and he says, "Ya, I have made an unforgivable mistake by saying so."
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0008par0125	Don't write scripts. Don't write scripts.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0006par0126	Now, that's a lot like licking a little spit. I was actually going to recommend him as a great man if he were here. The person who makes an impossible mistake does not sit in this position. I believe Mr. Bulent will show you this subtle act, he'll step up. (CHP) Because these authorities are not capable of making such irreparable mistakes, Mr. Bulent. From time to time, you cry to make yourself feel sorry for yourself, but it's not like crying. Act with honor and resign immediately. My dear friends, of course, we've been working on these privatisation events for years. Now, in the time of the AKP, of course, what was the real purpose of privatisation? Harmful facilities didn't damage the state, they were dispossessed, so the state was saved from some unjust damage, but with the AKP, it changed. Changed how? In AKP time, profitable facilities began to be sold. Also, friends, it is not known how to make value assessments of the facilities sold through this privatisation. That's obvious in that cosmic room of the Privatisation Administration. In 2005, the joke of Article 18 (c) of Law 4046 was changed. It says: "Is it possible, my friends, that only the privatized organization will be announced after I have fulfilled all of the person's obligations in the contract? So, you're going to privatize something, hide how you value it, and then you're going to reveal it later. It's all about setting up a robbery, setting up a motive for theft, giving the state's property to its supporters at zero prices. Here, you sell the most profitable places with privatisation, and you condemn the workers who work there to hunger, and you condemn them to 4/C. So this is an act of violence, which destroys both the economy and the citizens of the Republic of Turkey; and it is a truly unforgivable mistake, dear friends, that destroys workers and needs bread. Of course, our love of privatisation continues from 1994 to this state property. When he was mayor of Istanbul in 94, a $5m BRT of Istanbul City was established at a television facility in the municipality. Then, immediately, as soon as he became mayor, he gave this to a $5 million facility for world broadcasts for $200,000 and forty-nine years' rent. After that, the company that bought it changed its name, made it Channel 7. The network also gave an indirect company that was founded by the 7 ▪ some ad bids for a year at Istanbul City Hall, and $1,750,000. I mean, there's actually so much dirty, so much closed stuff that it's hard to explain, of course, in ten minutes. One of the most important institutions that was privatized during the AKP... of course, a lot has been privatized, and a $32 billion privatisation has been made. When you consider it with profit and profit, it's about 40 or 50 billion dollars. Now, as soon as you privatized Telecom, you passed a law. 15 percent of this telecom was going to the treasury, and you took it out, and you took away this treasure stake. From 2005 to 2010, Telekom is approximately 48 quadrillion liras. When you did 15 percent of that, you set up 7.2 quadrillion liras for what the government, the treasure, should have taken. Immediately after that, you reduced the tax on institutions from 30 per cent to 20 per cent. Here the tax on non-payment institutions is around $2 quadrillion per share of Telekom. You've transferred most of the banks to private, foreign companies in your time. The loss of the state here is 5-6 quadrillion liras by reducing the tax from 30 per cent to 20 per cent. Now, valued lawmakers, a national government first considers the interests of its own state. But unfortunately, what did they do in the time of AKP power? They've always thought about the profit of strangers. I mean, you bring a tax down from 30 percent to 20 percent, but to whom? You do it to institutions or certain things of Turkish nature that work in Turkey. So, of course, these can be explained over and over. Look, you hired me, you're putting six blocks of sugar factory into privatization. But it's obvious who these sugar mills will be given to. You've already given away the Seydişehir aluminum facilities. You guys spent $290 million on a $5,6 billion facility. And as if that wasn't enough, you donated the Oymapınar Dam to it, where electricity is sold. I mean, there's no government anywhere in the world that's responsible for pulling government goods like this. It's against the rules of morality, it's against religion, it's against decency, it's against everything, but it's always forgotten when it comes to Turkey. So it's government property; let it go, sir! Now, you know there used to be decisions made by the judge about these privatisations. Mr. Recep was saying to these decisions: "The decisions made by this judgment are making my heart bleed." So there's a privatisation going on there, a few of it's been canceled, the government's profit here is $3 billion, $5 billion. Now, it turns out that Mr. Recep says, "Why should $3 billion, $5 billion, stay in the government's pouch?" My fan needs to keep it in his pouch. If it doesn't stay in my fan's pouch, my liver will bleed. So, dear lawmakers, then in order to prevent the Judiciary's cancellations at this Privatisation Administration, you went to the Constitutional Court, made changes to the Constitutional Court, and removed the rightness of the Constitution. So you think you're doing all the best, but if a judgment that needs to be impartial comes to a decision, you don't accept it as a judgment. Therefore, you have removed his authority. Now, dear friends, in the privatisation of AKP times, there are so many pleasures, so great favours in the sale of treasured land, which one of them should we talk about? Let's go and see how low the land by the sea is, the goods they give their followers. Here, we know how Mr. Recep played a role in the bargain between ATV and Sabah. Again, again, you know, in a refinery where Ceyhan was supposed to be built, in his talks with Mr. Recep Aydın Doğan. He says, "Sir, I have promised him to our Çuk. " The work that was given to our Çukýk will never come to an end. Well, brother, isn't this our Striking citizen and the others a citizen of this country? For example, in Mustafakemalpaşa, the license of the Dams of Süzelkaya and Camelikonnek is granted to Çukık, again under the decision of the Energy Market Editing Board. Oh, man, that's not gonna happen, guys. The state is not a tribal state, it's a state of law. If you really believe in the state of law, if you accept it, then you will tender them, and everyone will enter them, and anyone who asks for them will receive the tender. But so much so that in your reign the state has been corrupted... that your purpose, all the institutions of the state, all the assets of our allies, is that we are the only bosses, that other citizens are already slaves, that they need charity, that we should bring you a coin every year, to these workers, to these poor people, so that they can... Yesterday, Abdullah Bey goes to Istanbul University, and they don't put him next to Abdullah Bey. Who is this professor? He's been complaining to the chancellor before. And then the chancellor said... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He's holding her, sending her to a mental institution.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0009par0148	Thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0006par0149	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0010par0151	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0009par0152	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0010par0153	Speaking of our president, the speaker has just expressed that he has been involved in dirty relations with the BRT, that he has been involved in dirty relations with the BRT, and that the people's property has been given to the allies during the AK PARTY rule, and I want to respond.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0009par0154	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0010par0158	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute your grand delegation. There's a man walking around with a flashlight, so I suggest you enlighten his own dirty past first. For more than 30 years, you've been a legislator, and you've only been a civil servant. According to my current list, the number of real estate on you and your children is over 30, and in the most valuable places. It's on record when you were a council member, and in the newspapers, as well as in the column, as expressed in the Plan and Budget Commission, you defended terrorists and heroin traffickers. 1) A person who has done nothing but serve as a government official for many years has to explain how his property will be like this, and most of his children. A child of yours works here in the House. If his salary is enough to buy them, he'll have to pay. It's not enough. If you donate it, it should be taxed. 2) In 2007 -- after the election was over -- you were elected MP, and as soon as the MP was elected, you became a partner with an Israeli-based German investor. According to Law 5084, you bought free land in Aksaray. They gave you a share of your influence. What are you gonna do? You're gonna build a wall of hay. Is this all a lie?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0011par0162	It's all lies!
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0010par0163	You clean up your dirty past with that flashlight first. [[Noises from CHP rows]] The situation with BRT is: Before Mr. Erdoğan became Mayor, all municipalities had televisions, but when they became mayor, a law was passed that prohibits these municipalities from setting up televisions. As in Kayseri Municipality, Ankara Municipality, as in İstanbul Municipality, has been forced to hand over, shut down...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0012par0167	Who was it handed over to?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0010par0168	It wouldn't be appropriate to put them out in a different way without knowing. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0013par0171	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0014par0172	Mr. President, he has, if you'll excuse me, but give him a little time, because I'll give him a different answer, because he's so...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0013par0173	Here you go, young man, two minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0014par0174	But not for two minutes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0013par0175	If you use economics...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0015par0176	Actually, there's two hours of paperwork to talk about you, but that's what happens in two minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0013par0177	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0016par0179	Now, valued MPs, the AKP has been in power for ten years. If they know something illegitimate about me, if they don't do it, they're the most despicable people! Honourable people...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0015par0180	You couldn't do anything during the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0016par0181	Look, you're in control of the finances, you're in charge of any kind of key, you're out there, you're taking my fortune statement, you're opening it in the House, you're talking here, you have those powers.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0015par0182	More than 30?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0016par0183	A decent and honorable man doesn't slander, you bring, you explain. Here's a piece of advice: let's call in the investigators, let's have Mustafa Elitas take a look at the accounts of Kamer Young...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0015par0185	Let's have it examined.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0016par0186	...if I have one illegal asset, I promise you honor, we'll donate it to the treasure. Are you in?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0015par0187	I'm in!
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0016par0188	Is he a bastard or a scoundrel or a bastard who retreats?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0017par0190	Watch your mouth, watch your mouth.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0015par0191	Mr. President, don't mention the word "namus" or "namus."
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0016par0192	Look, for him, friends, I offer this to Mustafa. Mustafa Elitaş, we'll look at your accounts, we'll look at my accounts, we'll see what product we're buying. My friends, look...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0015par0194	You answer for Lehman Brothers.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0016par0195	...my assets are in the middle. I bought a field in 1972, and in Dikmen, there were six parcels, and we paid for the apartment, and now we're renting them.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0015par0196	Is that what's in Bursa, what's in Bursa?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0016par0197	Unfortunately, the tenant sits down, people don't pay their rent because of the situation you've brought in, they leave it, they destroy it. Me, too, about the factory: I'm a 5% partner in a company in Aksaray, as I said in the past.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0015par0199	Why didn't you build that factory in Tunceli?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0016par0200	I found out we lost what you brought, we broke up, and we broke up a year ago...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0018par0201	How much did you pay for the partnership?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0016par0202	And, sir, I took over the stock for $12.5 billion, I re-integrated the same amount, they're on the record. Honourable people don't slander, but Recep Erdogan...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0019par0203	I'm returning the same to you!
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0016par0204	When he was mayor of Istanbul, he lived in a slum, now he's the richest man in the world. If you have any honor, let us examine the property of Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Are you in?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0020par0206	We're in, we're in.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0016par0207	Let the honorable people bring it, and let us examine the assets of Recep Erdogan. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let's examine the assets of your ministers.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0021par0210	Thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0016par0211	Guys, this isn't about slander.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0021par0212	Thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0016par0213	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0021par0214	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0016par0215	I recommend these...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0022par0216	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0021par0217	Mr. Young, you've said enough on the stand. And don't say so much about people's dignity.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0016par0218	...let them examine my assets.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0022par0220	Mr. President, with honor, with dignity, with honor, with honor, with dignity, I'd like to express that the word "happiness" doesn't fit in the mouth of some people who take this nation in their mouth and criticize it.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0021par0249	Ankara MP Bulent Kuşoglu.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0023par0251	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the finance ministry and the IRS budget. I salute you all. Dear friends, the Ministry of Finance is a very important ministry, a very important function, the ministry representing the sovereignty of the state. Governments are a ministry that starts to work before they're officially established, and the Finance Ministry is that important. My Master of Property, Bedri Gürsoy -- who had done some time in the Ministry of Finance -- said, "I don't forget -- that the Minister of Finance talks little, all the members of the Council of Ministers, all the other ministers look into his mouth, but when he talks, he trembles all over the place, he gives very important messages, and of course the Ministry of Finance is equally important, and the Ministry of Finance has to know both the world and the public, and the economic system. This is true of the whole world, and it's true of Turkey, but recently, when we look at Turkey, I see that the Ministry of Finance is missing because there have been some errors in the Ministry of Finance. Was the Ministry of Finance a ministry that needed to be changed? Yeah, a lot of things had to change, but not the ones that needed to be changed in the Finance Ministry, unfortunately, traditions, traditional staffs have changed, changes in places that need to be changed, changes in points that need to be changed. And I don't see Mr. Secretary and his staff responsible for that. And I, for one, see the understanding of power, that the Prime Minister doesn't know the state very well. While the Finance Ministry is talking about its budget, we need to make an assessment of the state and the general economy. My dear friends, in the last ten to fifteen years, have experienced the most foreign currency in the world, the most liquidity, the amount of cash, a period like this is out of the question in the history of the world. At a time like this, of course, Turkey has also been given a share, and there have been a lot of foreign currency opportunities, and Turkey owes a lot of money. It's been this period that we've borrowed the most in the history of the Republic, and that's when we borrowed the most. You're going to say that the public debt rate has dropped according to national income. Yes, it's been reduced, but we owe a lot of money in this period. In addition, the private sector has borrowed a lot of money at this time, and in addition, the households have borrowed a lot of money. There are nine times more debts than 2002, in which the citizens spend every 100 liras. We need to remember these things, and it's like this: What were Turkey's problems in 2002? You're looking at, what's the big problem, off the record? There's a lot more off the books today. A revenue distribution? Yes, the distribution of income continues to be the same problem. An out-of-energy addiction? Yes, we have also increased our dependency on the outside. What else? Social security and tax reforms. The problem with social security continues, we can't do tax reform. Unemployment continues to increase. The problem of foreign trade deficits is growing, and in addition to all of this, we've created an additional problem in this period, which is open to business. Now, what am I saying all this for? I'm not saying that our economy is particularly bad, but that we can't solve some problems, that we need to solve them, dear friends. We have to solve these things together -- with power and opposition, of course, much more to power -- together. We need to identify them so we can solve them together. I'm saying it specifically for him. Turkey's borrowing, look, it's okay to borrow at a time when there's so much foreign currency, but this debt had to go to investment, not consumption. A great opportunity has been missed, and I'm just saying that to make that determination. With so much debt, at a time of such cash opportunities, Turkey should have been able to address its structural problems, the structural problems I just counted. That's exactly why I'm saying this. We need to know that, we need to make that determination. When I was a kid, there was a businessman in our neighborhood. Suddenly he started spending a lot, getting on airplanes, traveling abroad. Then, two years later, he suddenly went bankrupt and left town. Turns out he was in debt, but he couldn't turn it into an investment, he couldn't turn it into an investment to pay off his debt. Turkey shouldn't be like this either. I'm just saying that to make that determination. Now you'll say even strangers appreciate us. My dear friends, foreigners appreciate the potential of Turkey's economy. That's right, the Turkish economy has a lot of potential. The Turkish entrepreneur is great, very dynamic, and we understand that, but the economy of Turkey is warped, it has fundamental problems, it has structural problems, and we have to fix them. It can't be repaired during this period. That's what I specifically wanted to say. My dear friends, in regard to the budget, we've discussed enough delays with the OVP and the OVPM at this time in the Plan and Budget Commission, but I want to make it very clear here. Look, one of the things we're going to approve of is the final account of 2010. See, in 2010, you didn't allow it, do you know what the amount of spending is on the grant that this Grand Assembly doesn't allow? 15 billion liras. This is a very important matter. As a legislature, we need to keep our budget rights together. It's very important. Look, I'm telling you again, we need to take care of our budget, we need to be aware of that. In recent decisions made at the European Union's Leaders Summit, do you know what the most important issue is in decisions that have been excluded from Britain? From now on, the budgets of countries that belong to the European Union will not be open. It'll be half the deficit of national income at the most. It won't pass, and the EU Commission will oversee it. Is this what we're gonna do after the crisis? This High Council must now take control of its rights, its rights, its rights, its authority, my dear friends. We need to be aware of that. We need to be aware of that. On the other hand, look, there was an amnesty in 2011. At least $5.5 billion worth of income, I think. Is it in the budget? It's being transferred to the treasury as financial, and then its budget deficit was reduced. It's called. You need to know these things. Look, we recently passed a law on military service. It's not in the budget, it's not in the budget pens. Again, the treasury will be recorded, and the budget deficit will be reduced. Notice these. You should know all this. These are very important issues in practice. I see the Minister has set goals for income policies and practices on two basic axis presentations. He says: "Additions in tax management under tax management, increased administrative capacity. Two: improvements in tax legislation and reducing tax burdens. Now, these aren't concrete, they're abstract expressions, they're beautiful targets, but what I really see is this: One: Business will be encouraged to produce, increase investment, increase RD spending and innovation. The tax burden on employment will be reset. Look, these are very concrete targets. In automotive, fuel will reduce tax loads on basic food materials. Tax offices will be brought to the attention. Look, for the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey, IRS executives have acted, they're in trouble. Tax offices need to be highlighted, and they need to be highly authorized, and they need people who know foreign languages at a professor's level. Tax management needs reform now. The investigators have to be responsible for what they do. Dear friends, in the 2012 budget, income tax and institutional tax totalled 61 billion liras, taxes on wealth over the remaining $217 billion.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0024par0273	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0023par0274	I wish you the best of the 2012 budget, with respect.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0024par0276	İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Mr. Tuncel, your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0025par0279	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group to give you an opinion on the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. Once again, before we discuss the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, in fact, we're discussing the budget of a ministry that has been established in a pirated way under the law. So, is it really good to budget this Ministry? I don't think we're in a very good place. So in fact, I'm going to do some analysis later, and it's clear why this Ministry has an approach in Turkey, especially in ecological balance, to disrupt human life, so that a ministry like this, instead of its original mission, has actually been transformed into a ministry that will create runts, rivers in Turkey, all its habitats, transform into Ranta. I can tell by the name. If you put the environment and urbanism side by side, if you bring in the former president of TOKI and you make him the Minister... the painting is in the middle, there's no need to talk at all. So it's the ministry of how we turn the environment into a Rant field, how we build new buildings, how we open new ground spaces under the name urban transformation, and how we plunder our forests under the name ▪2. So, in our opinion, budgeting this Ministry is a major damage to the people of Turkey. Members of lawmakers, in the short term in our country, the largest Rant and parallel political interest stemming from the division of the land and construction rate, especially from the turning of land into land in natural areas and then the implementation of the development plan. This time, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, which includes TOKI and Tapu Kadastro, has been equipped with plans, project and even construction licenses to give permission to use construction, allowing large construction projects to be carried out faster and more unstoppable. By creating the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, the government has single-handedly bypassed independent boards, which prevent construction in coastal areas, meadows, forests, wetlands, natural and archaeological sites. That's why it's not exactly out of the question that we're actually saying it's a runt ministry. The Ministry of Environment and Forestry has changed the environment and the Forestary Ministry to at least partially maintaining the ecological balance, and has now transformed it completely into a Rantsal field. In this way, major projects have been opened up to international construction companies, HES and nuclear energy markets. With this decree, the provisions of the government's pre-election government have been imposed by environmental organisations, which have been opposed by environmental organisations, for which actions have been carried out by nature and the Protection of Biological Variety Act. Because some of the articles in the Biological Law, without waiting for this law, have been taken over by the Ministry under the decree of this law. The Law on the Ministry of Finance and Missions and Law 2863 have been taken out of the way by making significant changes to the rank, which will soon be marketed to the construction sector, especially to public land, land, buildings, especially under the state's rule of law. The Ministry's authority to make plans to protect the basin is seen to be removed after a review of the Code of Law. In addition, Article 2 of the Article 2 of the Ministry, it is not written that the plans for environmental order should be made, but the 7th article shows that this task is being given to the relevant directorate. Environmental order plans are plans to be made in the basin, and their primary goal is environmental or ecological protection. So, the fact that a ministry of the environment was originally removed from this ministry shows us very clearly what purpose this Ministry was founded for. It is clear that the joke added under the government's rule and savings, such as forests, mechas, wetlands, and other ecological areas, such as coastal areas, both national and international law, would want to be dealt with better protected areas. With another joke added to the same clause, the Ministry has been authorized to perform every transaction from urban transformations in areas under the government's rule and savings to the post-building plan to the final phase of construction ownership. The President of the Special Environmental Protection Institution, established under the Supreme Court of the Special Environmental Protection Institution, established under the Court of Emergency, has been shut down and has been bound by the order of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, which is deemed appropriate by the Minister. This is the greatest blow to the protection of environment and natural beings. It is clear that these areas will be opened to the Rantsal Talan. One thing to remember is that the ratio of protected areas in our country to the total face measurement of the country is only 4 percent. The world average, dear friends, is over 12 percent. It seems that even 4 per cent was too much for the AKP government to open new areas as a Rant area. Members of parliament, it is clear to everyone how global climate change is a problem for the world, especially the countries of the European Union are forced to take measures for global climate change in the world, so this causes greater crises than the economic crisis. The whole world is working on it, but what are we doing about it? We're causing plans, projects, ministries to disrupt the ecological balance. So, this is a serious problem for the people of Turkey. An approach that does not have a democratic, ecological, and gender liberal perspective would only cause chaos to humanity, making mankind's life uninhabitable. When we say ecology, we only often think of something like this: the protection of the environment. Ecology, however, is life itself. As a result, there will be serious problems in Turkey as long as they do not exist. Look, if you'll pay attention, there's been a very serious social opposition to HESEs in particular lately. People don't want to have HES in their stream, and they object to it. And while they're doing that, it's not just because they're against hydroelectric plants, but because they're objecting that they're taking away their habitats because you're destroying those people's houses where you set up the hydropower plant, you're forcing them to migrate. You pull it out of its natural habitat, into other areas, even in that business, into the huge buildings that the TOKI are so proud of, and it's moving away from its own life. That's why people object, which means he's objecting because his own living space has been taken away from him. Of course, the other dimension, along with the HESEs, is actually destroying our streams, where human life is causing ecological destruction that will affect not only there, but the whole of Turkey, even the entire world. Now that you know about this global climate change, the world has taken measures, and we signed the Kyoto Protocol here last semester. He also applauded all political party groups, which is a good thing, but this protocol expires in 2012, my dear friends, and so far he has failed to fulfill any obligation he has signed under the government. Recently, Durban, South Africa, was held in Durban, where four results were issued at this framework meeting, which meant that they could not co-operate. There are serious problems in this sense, and Turkey still hasn't been able to take very serious steps to convince the public about this. Congressmans, described as the lost forest in science and science, have come into our lives by the Constitution of 1961, when the land of 2/B itself has been identified as the destruction of forests by human hands. Between 1983 and 2010, 384,000 hectares of forest were lost. The 2/B, thought to solve problems with forests, has become both a cancer that has caused our forests to be destroyed and an unresolved problem for 40 years. Now, we just talked about global climate change. This is a serious problem. So there's such a serious drought, climate change, and there's climate change presented here by the General Directorate of State Meteorological Affairs, which is presented to the TBMM. I've got two diagnostics here, so friends can take care of it. One of them is that the main reason for warming up in Turkey is fast urbanism. Second, the need for measures that need to be taken - to the end - must be given great importance in treeing. With trees that grow fast and can withstand fire and thirst and can remain green for a very long time, empty spaces must be treed. He made a suggestion. But what are we doing? With the 2/B app, we do something about the forests to transform the already existing forests into urban transformation fields. I mean, it's, in fact, nothing more than taking the breath out of our future, our children, our people. Therefore, this 2/B application must be abandoned immediately. But unfortunately, the AKP government put it in front of him as a basic project. The issue 2/B has returned from the Constitutional Court several times in the past, and the last two attempts to change the constitution in 2003 have been sent back to the TBMM for renegotiation by the tenth President. Environmental organisations have been fighting to prevent the sale of forests under the name 2/B land since 2003. However, along with the law issued by the AKP government on this last 2/B), the destruction of forests, the new land in the construction sector, and thus the destruction of the biological diversity of Turkey, along with our forests. Members of lawmakers, the policies of the City and Environment Ministry are seen to be structured when the programme is examined. The most important indicator was the policies followed during and after the Van earthquake. When former Turkish Cypriot President Mr. Bayraktar goes to Van, we will build a new and modern Van. He made it clear that he is after new construction and construction. The urban transformation projects, announced without completing the restoration of human and environmental destruction caused by the earthquake, were a reason for the construction sector for Van and many other cities through TOKI. Public housing projects, which are the product of a failed social housing policy in Western metropolitan areas today, are presented by TOKI as a newly invented project for Turkey. However, these dwellings have failed to provide a social environment especially needed for human life. These things that are done in the name of urban transformation are actually a dissolution project in society. Because according to people's lives, it's an urbanization approach to class. So the urban transformation project is not a human project, it's an inhuman project, and actually giving up this project would be an important gain for mankind. Members of parliament, another bleeding wound in Turkey, which was done all over Turkey -- what I just said -- the HESTHERs. It is said that Turkey's need for electricity will be met with HESbooks. However, if the energy loss from the 2,700 HES project is removed from the 20 per cent of the pipe and cables where natural gas and electricity energy are being used available will be eliminated. Thus, we can obtain energy without destroying our nature, without deforestation of ecological balance. It's, of course, a private policy, not just about getting energy, it's really about opening up new Rantfields. You know, there's a lot of different challenges going on, and they've been won locally. In the village of Rize Hara, in Sinop Gerze, in the valley of Tripoli, in the valley of Solguk, in the village of Erzurum Tortum. As I just said, he's not only resisting ecological balance, he's resisting to say no to forced migration. We propose to the government from here, to give up these HES policies as soon as possible and to resist the exile of people from natural ecological habitats. Congressmans, another issue on this issue is the security dams. In fact, there will be eleven security dams between Şırnak-Hakkari, where the Kurds live busy while destroying our streams in the Black Sea. And we think that this is how much it destroys nature, that it's not really going to be solved with security dams, that we're not allowed to take a more serious, really peaceful, democratic step in the Kurdish issue, and therefore a project that will reduce our breath, that will leave no space for us to live. As a result, if we are all building a security dam in Şırnak, if you are destroying the ecology of the place, the people in Ankara are not affected by it, they are impressed, they need to be seen. Congressmans, we're running out of time, and I want to make another point: of course, Turkey is in a new constitutional debate. Is the constitution made or not, or does the AKP make its own constitution? I hope there's a constitution that our people want, but there's an initiative in this constitutional process specifically called the Ecoch Constitution Initiative. And they have serious suggestions that the constitution should be considered ecologically at the same time as nature's rights subject. We also feel that these proposals should be considered in this Parliament. I mean, we humans don't rule nature, we're nothing when nature doesn't exist. So we have to protect nature at a really habitable point, where we can breathe. If we can't protect him, if we don't have a geography to live on tomorrow, you can make as many laws as you want, make as many HES projects as you want. We need nature to breathe. Therefore, in the constitution, it is important to define nature as a subject of rights. That's what we, the Peace and Democracy Party, care about. Greetings to you all.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0026par0303	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel. Mud MP Iron Steel. Here you go, Mr. Steel. Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0027par0307	Mr. President, my esteemed congresswoman friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party regarding the Finance Ministry budget. On behalf of my party and myself, I salute you all. First of all, the budget is an important tool for the distribution of revenues in a country or in a state. Before entering the distribution stage, it is based on distribution after centralising revenues collected on various sources of income. Despite some of the benchmarks of international universal law here, I'd say we're dealing with a budget that's more unique to us, based on our originalities, with a framework, in the Finance Ministry budget, as well as in the 2012 budget. First of all, our budget is not human-oriented. Second: it is not rational, it is not business and production-oriented, but consumption, debt-based, current spending-oriented, bureaucratic and centrist. With these features, I think it means nothing more than a routine review of budgets from the past to the present. Apart from social dynamics itself, there's one thing that doesn't match the reality of society in oval tables, closed rooms, electronic environments. But the budgets must first be sustainable, so it should be fueling, feeding, supporting, and contributing to the society's dynamics of change. Two: it has to be efficient, so it has to be that your life, your life, your production, it's got to be encouraging, it's encouraging, it's supporting itself. Three, he must be accountable. In this sense, it had to be based on the fact that the Supreme Assembly was open to the control mechanism, as well as on the basis of its participation in the various organisational structures of society. Participants should also be considered as participant in the process when the budgets themselves began to become an important argument in today's world, when they were to be prepared and reflected in society. The other part of society, let alone political parties, democratic mass organizations, civil society organisations, even opposition, has not been active since the June 12, 2011 elections. Both the Peace and Democracy Party and the Republican People's Party do not participate in the long-term Parliament, and it is possible to express the problems of our lack of active participation in these and so on in parliament's holidays and commissions, which were formed after October 1st. It has to be transparent, so it has to be open to society, it has to be open to people, it has to be traceable, it has to be traceable. He should be able to appeal to his sense of justice, to be fair, to be fair. But what we can see across our budget, as far as we can see, is not a budget based on the majority of the non-national population, despite the minority who has the initiative to use 80 per cent of our non-national product, or the initiative to use 80 per cent of it. So it's not the new conditions for the survival of the poor, it's the budget that motivates the new production tools, but the winner with the centralized budget, the risk of the rich being richer, the poor being poorer, and the situation that we can face. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers have a sense of meeting his basic human demands, rather than understanding, a sense of understanding, a perception that today's budget at a similar and parallel point in our 90-year-old republic's history has to sustain pension, pension, pension, pension, pensioner, employee, or working class as a whole, which leads to a sense of control and hegemonic relationship, which leads to the rich to richerness and hegemonic relationship through existing production tools. That's danger, that's risk. Especially at a time when capitalist production relations with a re-crisis from the structural crisis begin to pose such risks in the world and global dimensions, the expansion of scissors between communities and communities, the deepening of this chasm between the rich and the poor brings the possibility and the possibility of new political crises to our agenda every day. In addition, the budget must be autonomous, independent and authentic institutional structures based on the principle of location, the size that supports them. However, as there is a budget in our country that is far away from these features, our understanding and central structure does not allow that much. Our municipality, around 2,900, faces an impasse enough to benefit from 6 per cent of our budget, 6 per cent of the overall budget. As they do not have financial autonomy, municipalities that feed on such a small share of the general budget face us daily with the reality of a society that lacks production and lacks service, at the point that there are institutions in contact with society that are reconnected every day, in a relationship with society, responsible for producing their services. It's a contradiction. Think of it as living, dynamic, every day in contact with the community, associated with the community, the city's legislatures, the boroughs. As long as you can't provide them with autonomous and original finances, and you can't provide them with autonomy at the administrative point, you can't feed the community as much as you can, and you can't allow society to play its role in the dynamic of change. And that would lead to our falling behind in the historical loop, despite the existing, changing spirit, and especially those institutions, when we don't base on the fact that society is a civil society organization, we're also trying to deprive ourselves of its change. Mr. President, it is possible to see in the budget budget, designed as the basis of these insights: First, as I said, the budget is designed primarily by a perception of the Ministry, the Ministry, which provides personnel costs for the ministry's institutions, more than a sense of employment and production, which protects the body through current expenditures, manages the body and offers the opportunity to move it to tomorrows. If that's enough, it's understandable, but the rest of the same budget, when it's converted into high-tech imports, heavy machine guns, an importary budget, you and the rest of it, you can't create the education that society needs, the health, the vital areas, you can't create it. Imagine, even though it's been three months since the Van earthquake, even though it's been three months since the first day of our Prime Minister and our ministers' messages, people are still condemned to live in tents, despite 20 to 25 degrees in winter, and the damage is that hundreds of thousands of people have been migrated from a heavily damaged country and have been forced to face hunger, poverty in the metropolitan areas, especially if they've been forced to pay for some kind of money, at the point of the power contribution of an open prison in Ercish. So in our country, where the economy is strong, the first is that in the creation of this economy, the government must be fair to its people, its citizens, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, it needs to have to be fair to have to have to be fair, its tax, and the kind of contribution to sustaining its life. But the laborers again, the oppressed, the poor again. The 20 per cent rich people, who carry 80 per cent of the gay national population, have to pay the highest tax, pay off, pay off their salary, pay off every day, but at the same time, let alone the fact that the rich who can't pay the tax, who have to live on minimum wage, who have to live on minimum wage pension, who have to live on minimum wage, who have to live on minimum wage, who have to pay off their wages, who have to pay off their wages, who have to pay us a living on a minimum wage, who can't pay their taxes again. This is another fact that the budget, which lacks the distribution of fair and fair justice, by its nature, is trying to solve the problem by approaching the problem with the anxiety and doubt of tomorrow, with a perception that ignores the fundamental demands of society, and ignores the fundamental demands of society by central capital. Today, again, it's possible to see this in the Department of Environment and Urbanization budget that we're discussing, as well as in the Ministry of Public Works budget. Mr. President, in today's world and country, the balance between the country and the city and the countryside is changing every day, at a negative point, in favour of the city, changing in favour of urbanization. Today, 25 per cent of our population are facing a 75 to 80 per cent state of living in the city, while 30 per cent live in the country. Its reasons, its motives, its economics, its political, its social. Regardless of their motives, citizens who have to move to the country and move to the city must not lose their freedom in the city at the headquarters of power. A perspective that protects and improves their freedom despite these ruling centers, with an understanding, both the state and the government must approach, and the concerned ministers must be able to provide services by mobilising their budgets and resources. He must act quickly. If a city like Van, a city like history, culture and nature center is devastated today, if it has reached a point where it should be migrated today, we should be able to arrive with a new understanding, a new perception that could be the cure for this place with its immediate opposition. It's a place for Urartus, a vital area of the Med State...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0028par0329	Thank you, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0027par0330	I thank you, and I wish you a good day.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0028par0332	Diyarbakır MP Nursel Aydoğan. Mr. Aydoğan, come in. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0029par0336	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the income budget on behalf of the Party of Peace and Democracy. I hereby salute all fellow congressmen with respect. Dear friends, the budget-making process is the main mirror of democracy in a country, because budget-making is the most obvious process in which the right to sovereignty is being used. This process is carried out in accordance with the principle of the senders, and we all know it. If there is a government in power that embraces democratic culture and understanding and social and political processes, that presumption of public perception, that budget distribution will most likely flow to areas such as public investments, social policy practices, science and technology investments, but we know that budget distribution is based on the ideology and political priority of political power. When that happens, militant governments, whose democratic culture is weak, are transferring the budget to the service of their ruling partners and supporters, including military and police spending, to suppress the opposition. Unfortunately, it is not possible to say that budgets made in Turkey have been different from that mentality so far.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0030par0338	Can you explain to me which allies?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0029par0339	Dear lawmakers, the fact that the AKP government does not have a different quality than the past budgets in 2012, is revealed in talks on both the overall budget and on the matter. The AKP government has partially revised the basic approach of governments before its time, and the militant has made a budget that takes from the poor to the rich, prefers the security side over the security and democracy dilemma. The data of this has already been expressed several times in various conversations by our friends. Dear lawmakers, of course, are important issues of where and what resources the revenues will be taken from when the budget is being created. The people of Turkey, unfortunately, have faced a huge tax burden throughout the history of the republic. For example, between 1923 and 1929, the total income of indirect taxes is 67.3%. During the following periods, it did not fall below 55 per cent by 1980, nor did it reach 45 per cent between 1980 and 1989, but went back to over 65 per cent between 2000 and 2008. Today, that ratio is close to 70 percent, friends. At the same time, it is no exaggeration to say that taxes are only taken from workers and poor people in Turkey when we include taxes from labourers and paid people through direct tax revenues. Dear lawmakers, the AKP government is one of the few governments that has made the most promises about this country's future, but has done little. However, the first question, of course, is how he got 50 percent of the vote. Notice that in criticism of the AKP, our fellow lawmakers in AKP rows, you criticize them so much, and they ask, "How do we get 50 per cent of the vote?" Of course, there is an answer, dear friends; since the day the AKP was founded and came to power, it has voiced leftist rhetoric, such as justice, democracy, freedom, human rights; it has asked the public to vote, claiming to fight status quo, military custody. Unfortunately, the left has been in power for nine years because it cannot make itself an option and does not face strong opposition. When this choice of left and true democracy is strengthened, we can all be sure that there will be a significant decline in AKP's votes. Dear lawmakers, 2012 will be an indirect tax year, like all years. Again, a budget will be created by taxing the poor on basic consumption substances from the consumer's backs. The wealth of the wealthy will not be touched again. In fact, in recent years, capital focuss, such as the withdrawal of the corporate tax from 35 per cent to 20 per cent, will demand a tax reduction from the government. This government will, of course, say yes to this demand to strengthen its power and maintain it, and the burden of the budget will be on the poor again. Dear friends, we all remember the year 2003 when Mr. Kemal Unakitan, who was then Minister of Finance, spoke about tax justice, I think he might as well be in the budget speech. It says: "We want tax justice, we want taxes to be fair, we want rates to be reasonable, but direct taxes are down to 30 per cent, so indirect taxes are up to 70 per cent, there is no talking about tax justice in a country where indirect taxes are raised to 70 per cent. We have to fix this warped structure. As long as this structure does not change, it is very difficult to reach the goal, so with the tax regulations that we will carry out, we are primarily considering destroying this structure. • Mr. Unakutan's views on the budget in 2003. Yes, these words belong to Unakutan, and nine years later, dear friends, the rate of indirect taxes in the 2012 budget is unfortunately 67 percent; I estimate the number of countries in the world with such tax injustices is very few. So it's possible to replicate these samples, guys. The AKP's nine-year history is a date of promises to the people and that they were not carried out. Promising democratisation in every area is ignored today, particularly the promissory checks for a more just economy. The students were given a stack of promises, primarily on the removal of the SEC, but today, unfortunately, instead of being removed, they became an institution of the AKP. ▪ Democratic responses will be expanded. It has been said that students who wanted to study without money were kept in prison for months and are still in prison for nearly 500. It's a pity that gas bombs have been launched against domestics, civil servants and Kurds who want their identity and their native language. The Alevis have been given a lot of promises, but there's still no progress on the status of the camisoles. Hrant Dink was murdered, and we're all watching the progress of the case together. Unionists, writers, academics, journalists were arrested for various reasons and have been thrown into prisons. We think that's what advanced democracy will pay for our country. Dear lawmakers, Turkey was a country that implemented the decisions of the IMF until 2008. Although he claims to have parted ways with the IMF in 2008, the path is not a fork in the road, but rather an unsurpassable comradeship and integration. Many of the developing countries, particularly Turkey, have taken the route the IMF has set. With the crisis of the '90s, the marketing mind that called on the state to re-employ the state took a regulatory role, not a developer. And that, my friends, is the new mission of the AKP government, which is the regulatory role of the government. In fact, although the IMF is not in our country right now, we can say that we have more IMF bureaucrats than the IMF. Yes, as a result of the following neoliberal policies, poverty has not only increased in the country, but has become chronic. Friends, it is not possible for this to change during the time of neoliberal policies, and the World Bank's programme for managing poverty continues in this framework. Yes, while this is the case, dear friends, the AKP can look the people in Turkey in the eye and say, "We are independent of the IMF." I'm afraid that's the truth in the middle. Unfortunately, the policy of getting 50 per cent of the vote is continuing, due to IMF policies, and the basic rights of the citizen continue to be bonded to charity. I'm probably out of time. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute all my friends with these feelings. I salute again with a longing for Turkey, where public taxes are used for the public.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0031par0352	Thank you, Mr. Aydoğan. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Bingöl MP Eşref Taş. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Stone, your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0032par0357	Mr. President, the esteemed members of the High Assembly, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group over the 2012 Financial Budget Bill. On this occasion, I give you all my regards and respect. Dear members, Mr. President, as it is known, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, the Ministry of Air quality, the protection of noise and vibrations, the implementation of the targets, policy and measurements for the management of waste and chemicals, has been extremely successful with these new structures, which determine the methods and foundations for the prevention and disposal of pollution, which co-ordinate the work on climate change and the ozone layer, and the work of action plans, and the implementation of services. As stated in Article 56 of our Constitution, everyone has the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment. It is the duty of the state and citizens to improve the environment, to maintain environmental health and to prevent pollution. Decent lawmakers are essential to solving pollution at its source. Following the principle, it is essential to prevent air pollution and to make legal arrangements for pollution resources such as industrial, heating and motor vehicle, and to improve action plans and to improve activities in the implementation of our ministry's most important goals. For the public to be informed of the quality of air, everyone will know the air they breathe. Based on its slogan, the results of the air quality measurement are shared by the Ministry's National Air Quality Watch Network through the public. As the ministry, with the implementation of the 2009-2020 Environmental Noise Action Plan, we aim to ensure that our people live in a quiet, quieter, more peaceful, healthier, quality environment. Precious lawmakers have begun to develop new economic and development understandings in today's world in the field of fighting climate change. This model, called low-carbon Development, is envisioned by encouraging environmentally friendly new energy sources to the energy market. The resolution of the solid waste issue, according to our ministry, is considered a significant development in the development of solid waste disposal facilities, which more populations can benefit from through local government units. This framework aims to serve 46 million people in the current 756 municipalities across the country, while 1.025 municipalities in 2012 are expected to serve 46 million people. In this case, the solid waste disposal plant in the total 94,800 square metre area in Bingöl province is expected to be completed in 2012 and will meet the needs of the centre, districts and cities. Again, the SDUAP project, which took effect in 2011, was the tender for the sewers and rainwater. As part of this tender, we renew the lines made 40 years ago by Methane-Mirzan. In addition, four new warehouses in the city and all the city's drinking water networks will be rebuilt, and there will be about 245km of landlines and grid lines, and by the end of 2013, the infrastructure problem will be resolved. Dear lawmakers, there have been several attempts to maintain ecological balance during our rule, but I will briefly mention it because of the timelessness. Our government has done important work in maintaining ecological balance, protecting air, water, soil quality, improving the contaminated environment, preventing noise pollution, environmental control.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0033par0372	Thank you, Mr. Stone.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0032par0373	I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0033par0375	İzmir MP Aydın Şengül. Here you go, Mr. Şengül.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0034par0378	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on behalf of the State Department of Environment and Urbanism. I salute you all. My dear friends, the future of society depends on the growth of healthy generations based on their internal dynamics. Cities are homes, homes, habitats of human communities. The structure of cities, the spirit, it affects people, it shapes people. If cities are well-designed, the people who live in them will be happy. If cities are not well-designed, the people who live in them are unhappy and pessimistic. One of the strategic issues that is on the agenda in our country is, as we all know, warped urbanization and the transformation and regeneration of regions. Basically, the most important process that we need urban transformation is that we don't have a national scale planning strategy. For the first time in the 1960s, the idea of the plan was abandoned completely from the social and physical area in the 1980s, to chance, pleasure, let them do it, let them do it, let them do it. Dear friends, the fact that planning was left only to local governments seemed more democratic, but it was not too late to demonstrate the lack of staff and information in local governments and also failure in the field of predictive planning. We have declared the villages and towns, which have reached 2,000 inhabitants. We've given all planning authority to these municipalities. Unfortunately for all of us, as we've seen in the past, the plans remain on paper, never implemented, nature destroyed, many people pursued. As you all know, the rapid population growth, the migration from the country to the city, gave birth to a rapid urbanization process in our cities. As a result of this urbanization, fast squatters began to form throughout our cities. Because these slums, which choose places in the city walls, are blocking the development areas of the cities, preventing the city from growing and growing healthy. It also destroyed sites, forests, farmlands, water basins, green areas, historical tissue, or in short, nature. Dear friends, we've created cancer cells in the walls of our city. Now, we need to get rid of these cancer tissues today, clear the way for our cities. As soon as the urban transformation comes to the agenda, everyone has clearly, without looking at its background, without looking at its background, gives birth to a rate of urban transformation, has established the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization, will make urban transformations, will provide for certain people. Dear friends, I'm asking you, this unhealthy construction has been a part of the past for everyone to create this slum. We don't want to blame anyone in the past. Today we have this problem, we need to figure it out. Give us a suggestion. Do we condemn these people to living in those unhealthy areas? What is their sin? After all, people in those areas are restless, unhappy, unable to meet their expectations, and we can't raise a healthy generation of angry people and their government and their nation. First of all, I want to point out that the more important social policies, economics, national education policy, health policy, the more important the environmental and urban policy is. Here, in the past, our unsanitary cities need immediate treatment. The cure for this is urban transformation. Yes, there's one or two important issues that we need to pay attention to in this urban transformation. When we do this urban transformation, we're not just going to do the physical transformation. Social transformation is also very important here. While people migrate from village to village, from country to city, they still try to live in the city the way they live in that village. We need to provide that education, that transformation, to those people in cooperation with our government, our government's institutions. We need to get people ready for that psychology when we take them from their little garden homes to their apartments. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear friends, that's all I could make out in five minutes. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit02spe0035par0390	Thank you, Mr. Şengül. Congressmans, it's 14 o'clock. I'm taking a break until 00.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0035par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume our 12th round of talks on the 2012 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2010 Central Management Computing Bill. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Burdur MP Hasan Hami Yıldırım is now speaking. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0036par0008	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group over the budgetary budget of the 2012 budget bill, the 12th round talks, the deedu and the Kadastro General Directorate budget. On behalf of my group and myself, I hereby salute you all. ==History==In 1847, it was founded under the name "Defteranei Amire Pencil", the first private property agency in today's sense became the General Directorate of Tapu in 1924, and was joined by the cadastro organization since 1925. Real estate ownership and the establishment of related rights are tasked with placing property borders on land and maps in our country to the General Directorate of Tapu and Kadastro. Dear MPs, it is an honor to serve this nation. This is a relay race. We know that Tapu and the Kadastro General Directorate have arrived today among the most important and reliable institutions in our country. In that sense, of course, I am grateful to all of our past governments, ministers, executives and employees of Tapu and Cadastro General Directorate. Dear lawmakers, in the period of the EC PARTI governments, as with all public institutions and institutions, there has been a working understanding of the Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, which has a project-based, transparent, accountable, citizen-oriented, and bureaucratic process to a minimum. At this time, the General Director has implemented many projects from TARBIS to the Map Information Bank, from the TUSAGA Active Project, while increasing its efficiency and capacity to produce services in the field, while on the other hand, it has become one of our main institutions in e-government applications. Today, 80 per cent of the state-wide deeds are done electronically, about three hundred different types of transactions. Regional practice based on management has been prevented from differences, an application union has been established. As far as property is concerned, 99.2 percent of the country's cadastro is finished. The 39,654 unit completed by 2003 added 12,782 units in the last ten years. In other words, cadastro studies, which could be completed in 35 years at its current speed before the EC PARTY, have been completed in ten years. A structure of 146 TUSAGA active stations across Turkey and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus has been established, allowing for 24 hours of real-time measurement, a measurement of geographical position, and an inch sensitivity. The annual savings amount provided by this application alone is 75 million Turkish liras. The Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, which are now directly in its field of service, is producing data from meteorology to shipping, navigation, navigation, city information systems, preventing tax loss, social aid activities, military activities, urban infrastructure systems, farmers' record system to many different sectors and fields from UYAP to UYAP applications. The online appointment, the number-one application and the text message information system have been implemented at the offices, and the contact with the citizens has been cut off. As of today, the agency's services have reached 94% of the level of satisfaction. Mr. President, the valued MPs, the institutions of the Republic of Turkey are working, continuing their effort to provide the people of this country with the services they deserve, to give them the value they deserve. With such feelings and thoughts, I wish you all the best of the 2012 budget for our ministry, our country, and our nation.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0037par0018	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Kayseri MP Ahmet Orphankaya. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0038par0022	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Ministry of Finance on behalf of the EC PARTY Group during the negotiations of the financial budget in 2012. I salute you all. The most important value of the 21st century is that the idea of an e-government that is the basis of the transformation into the knowledge society is a radical transformation that includes all parts of society. Studies for the spread of e-government services are being carried out decisively during the time of our governments. The population, justice, health, education, and tax that our citizens need almost every day has become very easy to reach. Today, the commercial and financial information of each of our taxpayers is stored in a computer environment, and the charges concerning the requested declarations and taxes are fulfilled by our citizens before they go to the apartment. Now, our citizens are able to fill out tax returns from their homes on the computer, whether they want to work or not, and pay their taxes with a credit card. Proliferation of such services allows for more efficient use of our country's resources while boosting the satisfaction of our citizens. Mr. President, the high growth of Turkey's economy in the globalized world and the economy has taken Turkey's economy to a level that is unfathomable by classical taxation tools. This makes it necessary for the administration to step up efforts to radically change its relationship with the taxpayers and to use technology intensively in the Turkish tax system. The Ministry of Finance and Finance Administration, which aims to best use developing information and IT technologies, conducts various e-government projects. E-testing projects are at the beginning of this. As it is known, the most important problems of tax systems were that tax audits could not be done properly. For the state, this is causing a massive loss of treasure, while, in view of the citizens, unfair competition has been caused against the law-abiding taxpayers. Tax studies are long-term activities that require extensive and intensive work by expert staff. In our control system, the accountant, the revenue controller, the finance inspector, the tax inspector, the tax inspector, is gathered under one roof under the administration of the Tax Control Board. In this arrangement, both the taxpayers were comfortable and the audit and coordination were planned to be carried out in one hand. E-testing activities are of great importance at the point where the tax loss and the prevention of the fugitive with this system will be brought to the treasury as quickly as possible by the public. Now, I'd like to briefly mention some of the applications conducted by the Ministry of Finance that constitute control infrastructure. Electronic invoice application continues to increase the number of users. In accordance with the application of the E-existence, 99 per cent of the declarations are now received electronically. E-defter and e-File applications aim to reduce both the burden of the taxpayer and the administration's paperwork and workload. The e-mail application and the remote control of the work and transactions of all tax offices are being conducted. The Bandroll product monitoring system provides ease in inspections and controls. I appreciate the work our ministry has done on the capture of the IT age and the preparation of our country's technological infrastructure. With the great support of our governments, I would like to say once again that these practices must be carried out with the dedication of all parties. I'd like to thank our friends, our Finance Minister, our Finance Ministry bureaucrats, all of our other ministries and bureaucrats that we've been working with at the Plan and Budget Commission in 2012 to prepare our budget. I wish you the best of our budget.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0039par0033	Thank you, Mr. Orphanage. Bitlis MP Vedat Demiröz. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0040par0037	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group regarding the 2012 budget of the IRS administration. I salute the High Council. Before I begin my remarks, I would like to thank all of the bureaucratic friends, fellow officers who have worked on the budget, and my friends from the EC PARTY, who have worked on this budget, along with my friends, who have been working with us in the same way, who have contributed, who have contributed to level criticism, who have contributed to CHP, MHP and BDP. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm going to tell you about an exemplary institution. The Chairman of the IRS is an international institution founded in 2005, in accordance with the facts of the country and the day. The agency's task is difficult. Our Finance Minister has announced that our budget revenues are $329 billion, and that's $277 billion of taxes. This company, which operates in the process of collecting 277 billion dollars, serves 4,250,000 taxpayers -- real and legal people. Only 38,000 of the staff present to provide these services. More than 100,000 taxpayers fall to a staff, doing so through the country's organization, the central agency, a thousand-odd tax office and property managership. The budget is $1.9 billion. He spends $1.6 billion on staff spending and social security benefits, and the rest he uses to buy and sell. He only spends 65 cents on a $100 tax. I did some research, and how does he do it, and how does he do it? Sir, more than 70 per cent of your employees have been undergraduates, pre-graduate, or master's level of this institution, a model institution, and most of the employees -- more than 70 percent, more than 75/5% -- ten years, fifteen years of employees. My most important assessment is that 37 percent of the employees are women. In an institution, when a woman's hand touches a job, success comes, I have faith. (AK PARTY) With movement from here, if we can one day fill 35 or 40 women in this Parliament, if we can carry 200 deputies, I have an infinite trust that this Assembly will perform a more efficient, leveled, quality mission. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In a way, I speak to the Minister here: I thank you for the rights of our friends in this rural community, of my devoted, self - sacrificing friends, of the principle of equal work, of equal pay, everywhere, and I'm sure you'll give them their rights, and I'm sure you'll give them their rights, and I'll thank you for that. Before I complete my remarks, I'm a member of Act 3568 and I'm a member of Law 3568 -- free accountant, financial advisor, and sworn financial advisors. This Law came out in 1989, and God bless it, we're in a really good position, both as a level and institutional structure, according to the equivalent professions now, but we have problems. Our minister is our common denominator everywhere. These colleagues have a collection problem. These friends of ours don't get paid for their efforts. There's got to be a study on this. There may be a collection of wages, such as notarys, or a collection of wages that rooms, such as building inspections, may or may put into the statements. It's not a public gain, it's not a tax, it's not an tuition, but it's not a tax he gets, it's a public tax he gets, but let's help him collect it somehow. I hope that the IRS will now simplify and simplify taxes fair and simple, as it has simplified the taxes of institutions that it has done before, the income tax, the tax law, will be rewritten by simplifying it by simplifying it, the notifications will be combined, and in terms of spreading the tax to the base, I hope you will make efforts for tax loss fugitives. I salute you all. May our budget be blessed.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0041par0046	Thank you, Mr. Irony. İstanbul MP Ahmet Baha Öğüken. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Önken.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0042par0050	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the 2012 Public Contraction Agency budget. I salute your high council. Before I say anything, as members of the Plan and Budget Commission, I wish the 2012 budget to our country, to our nation, to be blessed and prosperous. It is an independent, neutral, transparent, competitive, undisputed, reliable and open to public control, aimed at efficient and efficient use of public resources while carrying out the duties of Public Contraction Act 4734. He is the guarantor of the right to use our resources in light of the Public Contracts Act 4735, which determines the foundations and procedures of public institutions and institutions to make in the tenders and the contracts made according to this Law. Dear members of our parliament, in 2010 69 billion 284 million Turkish liras were taken public. This is equal to 24 per cent of our total budget and 6 per cent of our non-national product. This suggests that public purchases must be made transparent, reliable, efficient and efficient. Our government has created a new institutional structure that meets international standards and will design and govern the process well. In addition, a closed tender system, which is the main cause of corruption, has been eliminated, based on transparent and public control. The institution does its bidding in accordance with the Law. On the other hand, he examines and concludes complaints about the tender process as soon as possible. As an example, only 4,281° of the 133,341 tenders opened in 2010 were filed. 75% of these complaints were answered less than 30 days later. Again, only 636 percent of these complaints have been brought to justice. The remaining 3,645 issues have been resolved without prejudice. All of this data shows that the institution is conciliatory and service-oriented. Again, the Agency shares statistics that contain all this information with the public. Thus the institution became a secure structure. In a very short period of time, only 251 personnel are able to rise from under such an important burden, the Institution allows our people's taxes to return to our people in the most efficient way. Dear lawmakers, Internet technology that facilitates every aspect of our lives has also begun to be used in public tenders. The Electronic Public Imports Platform (EPAP) was launched on September 2010. The EKAP has saved up to 20 per cent of public purchases. Thanks to the EKAP, the institutions have begun to prepare the tender documents through the EKAP. The tender ads have been quickly accessed and the tender process has been reduced from 40 days to 28 days. Again, the regulation of tender documents has been automatically audited and the error reduced to minimal. According to the criteria, tender ads have been provided with the means to search. The tender opportunities have been reported by e-mail. The tender documents have been downloaded by electronic signature, so the payment has been eliminated. Tax debt, balance sheet, income table, and social security premium debt have become questionable through the IRS Presidency and Social Security Agency system. That's how the bureaucratic process got faster. As a result, almost all tender processes have become available in a paperless, electronic environment. A modern, transparent, accessible, manageable, efficient structure, a picture of pride.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0043par0058	Tell me about the exceptions, the exceptions.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0042par0059	It was through our government that he set out with the service password, that he was able to build a structure that would not allow the mafia, the hoser, the gooner, to earn the sweat of our people and to reach our people for every penny that he had given to our people. Therefore, I would like to thank our Minister of Finance and the members of the Ministry for all the innovation and successful work they've done. I salute your High Council.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0044par0062	Thank you, Mr. Önken. Erzurum MP Genghis Yavilioğlu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you are, Mr. Yavilioğlu.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0045par0066	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of the President of the Privatisation Administration. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, as is known, each economic policy has its own specific conditions and grounds. In Turkey, there was a systematic change in economics, along with January 24th decisions, a different axis was passed. Privatisation practices with the following policies have been used as an instrument of these policies. Privatisations have been constantly discussed since the year it was used. Their reasons for arguing are no different than their reasons in the world. Reasons in Turkey are appropriate for reasons in the world. I'd like to give you an example of just one of these about Turkey: the public burdens of the privatized companies. Did the privatized companies become a serious burden to the public or not? It is possible for us to compare this to funding given to companies owned by the Privatisation Administration from 1985 to 2001 for various reasons. Between 1995-2011 -- because the records are kept like this, because the Privatisation Administration has been established -- the total profit from companies in the privatisation programme is $4 billion,400 million. However, the total amount paid by these companies is $13 billion, 700 million due to their financial deficits and debts, which is about three times the amount paid for financial deficits and loans. Of course, we also need to look at the economic situation of these companies after they've been privatized, and we need to look at their performances, and we wish we'd done this well or not? The consequences of saying, "We wish we hadn't." There's been a study of that, dear friends. One of the privatised companies found that 69 (77) of the 77 companies continued to produce. They're being shut down, these companies are being shut down. But 77 companies -- some of them were left out -- are still producing 69/u of 77 companies. Eight of them, some of them are liquidated, some of them are in the process of liquidation, but the production is still going on in 69. In these 65 companies, 65 companies of 77 companies have serious investments. The investment amount of 65 companies made was $12 billion, $422 million, $12 billion, $422 million. We all know that this is very important to the economy. Again, 31 companies have increased capacity, so more production has been made. Again, when we look at their balance sheets, we see that 80 percent of them make clear profit. These are worth adding, dear friends. It doesn't matter if the value of adding is done by the government or by the private sector. The important thing is to create added value in this country. Another issue: foreign capital that comes to Turkey through privatized companies. From 1986, a $10 billion 701 million resource entry has been provided to Turkey through privatisations. All of this suggests that the results of privatisation policies are very important. Of course, these achievements do not belong only to the AK PARTY after 2003. In the end, after 1980, privatisations, CHP, MHP, DSP were in the party schedules of all our parties, and they were in practice. These achievements, from the beginning, I think, are all of our successes, but there's a difference here, which is that 78% of privatisations were made during the AK PARTY. 78 per cent of privatisations were made during the EC PARTY, and that was very important, very critically critical -- 64 per cent of our income was paid for the treasure and 28 per cent for the financing deficits and debts of companies in the privatisation programme. This conclusion shows that the work we do is good for economic policies. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0046par0075	Thank you, Mr. Yavilioğlu. Sakarya MP Şaban Toothli... no. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Yozgat MP Sadir won't stop. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Durmaz. Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0047par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. I hereby salute your high council. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism was established in place of the former Ministry of Public Works and Housing on July 4, 2011, and the State Department of Law No. 644, published on July 27984. On 8 June 2011, the Ministry of Public Works was merged with the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Forestry and was re-established by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization, which was again divided into Article 644 after 20 days. This was issued about 45 days after this arrangement, in the same matter, under the provisions of Law No. 648. This is the most important proof of how unprepared and disorganized by bypassing Parliament's will, so to speak, a work under the stairs. As a whole to Resolution 648, which regulates the ministry's duties and powers of office, it appears that the State Department of Environment and Urbanism defines the authority of the Ministry to seize as much as it wants, as well as the authority of local governments to plan, to make, to approve, as well as to give the project approval, building license, and permission to use structure. With this side, Resolution 648 is contrary to the principle of equality of the Constitution, and to all the principles that have been widely accepted in our country in the matter of urban planning. Again, with the regulation of Article 2 (c) of the Constitution of the Law, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanisation has been given the authority to use property licenses and structures in accordance with all types of structures on public property on the basis of all types of structures, order of environmental order, nastism and application development and changes, planning and changes of the parcels, building, sanctioning, and not being licensed by authorities within two months. This arrangement, on the one hand, means that the powers of local governments are to be seized and as much as possible, but on the other hand, the decision to make plans and to build a plan on the participantity of the cities will mean that the balance and integrity of the plans of the cities will be broken. This provision, which brings discrimination against public property, is contrary to the principle of equality of the Constitution, the rule of law, the principle of public interest, the principles of urbanism and the basis of planning. The new (h) added to Article 2 (e.g.) of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism No. 644, the new (h) added to Article 2 (e.g. for the State of the Union and its Missions, the map, which has not been approved by the municipality concerning the private sector's investments in public transports, has been given authority to plan, plan each scale, plan, planning and parcelation plans. The relevant municipality states that the job will take place within three months of the investor's application, otherwise it will be transferred to the Ministry. It has been ruled out that legal processes for the preparation of counted operations will last more than three months. For example, environmental order plan, co-ordinated implementation plans will be discussed at least twice in the city council, debated on the commission, suspended for 30 days under Building Law 3194, and if there is an objection, a plan for the mayoral municipality will be discussed by the city council in the same manner. This, however you look at it, is a four to eight-month period. So this is a completely insane Dumrul law, which, somehow, will not be able to complete this period, and when this process is run, we will seize this plan. In addition, the permit for and use of these investment structures will be granted by the Ministry unless it is granted by the municipality concerned within a three-month period. This would seriously deprive municipalities of mortar and other revenues, given the size of investment structures. This arrangement provides exclusive planning and licenses for all parts across the country. Again, it has been given to the Ministry of State for urban transformations and improvements given to municipalities by Article 7 (e) and (h)bents 5393 of the City Law, and by Article 73. In this way, municipalities will lose both service and income because of the allowances from City Law 5393 and similar revenues. All the changes we've been trying to explain above will lead to a serious decline in the revenues of already underfunded municipalities, and it will be of no value or value to the AKP authorities to say that they have increased municipal revenue at every opportunity. The AKP's government has seized the authorities of the municipalities by order of the law. The AKP, which limited the control of municipalities to legality, also shared with the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism under this decree the Ministry of Interior, which has already been restricted. In this case, all that remains is for municipalities to be connected to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. It has been opened to schools, mosques, and other public structures to be built in villages without planning to build, and the search for projects and building licenses in villages has been lifted, and villages have been left out of the building control system. This arrangement invited the safety of the people living in villages to be completely ignored, our children running for school, education, our citizens worshipping the mosque, God forbid, to their mass death. Dear lawmakers, despite many laws and regulations have been passed in order to settle and regulate structures in our country, it is a painful fact that settlements and constructions are not well supervised. We observe this situation after almost every earthquake, paying heavy social and economic bills. The construction control law and implementation regulations have been drawn up as a result of serious loss of life and property following the November 12th Gulf of Izmit and the 12th Düzce earthquakes. The current legal regulations left control of the production process to free engineers and architects, called the fennel accountability of the process, and construction control companies oversee the contractor as an employer. Structural control companies' concerns about taking jobs from the free market make the quality of the audit controversial. In his next job, the contractor prefers the construction control company, where he can make concessions in terms of control. The reality of reviewing the building control system, which has shown its shortcomings in the application, and that it is revised to respond to the need is also evident. After the 1999 earthquake, it was decided to collect earthquake tax from our citizens in order to build possible earthquake-resistant structures and quickly heal the wounds after the earthquake. This earthquake tax is still in effect. The former Minister of Finance of the AKP governments, Mr. Unakitan, we paid the taxes for these earthquakes and the debt to the IMF. When Mr. Secretary Simsek explained that they were building roads and hospitals. Ninety-six percent of the money collected for the earthquake in our country in the earthquake belt seems to have been spent on everything but the earthquake. Dear MPs, the earthquake that took place in Van province on 23 October 2011 has deeply upset us all. Van has also been seen in the earthquake in our province, where the measures that need to be taken have become a disaster because of mistakes made by human hands. And today, the earthquake's wounds are still not fully healed. The information I received from the phone calls I made today is that the person who stayed in Van is a regret, and the person who left Van is a thousand regrets. Jobs, food and housing are still widely felt. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to share with you a development I'm sorry to hear about the earthquake. Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay said that 75 per cent of the citizens have found the work done after the earthquake successful in a recent study on the genotype given about him in order to determine his responsibility for the Van earthquake, but the opposition doesn't know, but the people do. Furthermore, we have failed in the Prime Minister's sincere confessions. He has explained his achievements through polls in other provinces. I wish Mr. Secretary had done a survey with our brothers from Van, the ones he'd poked, the ones he'd sprayed with pepper spray, so we could all appreciate the result. It seems that Mr. Atalay is confused when he calls it a tent. There's a tent practice he's succeeded in, but it's not the tents of the Van earthquake victims, it's the tents he's building for terrorists who say, "I'm not sorry." [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the years have passed so quickly. This government has done nothing about the earthquake. They don't even have a decent stockpile of tents. For the first time, people were clubbed in the tent line, pepper sprayed, tents looted. Moreover, aid from all over the country was unfortunately burned. Mr. Secretary, leave the permanent dwelling, you haven't been able to raise containers yet, and let him go, you haven't been able to raise a winter tent. Our people either freeze to death in summer tents or burn to death. In short, you've been the cause of the crisis with your presence and your wrong decisions, let alone managing the crisis. Dear lawmakers, if we look at what's going on in Mr. Minister's responsibilities at the Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, it appears that there has been discrimination between Law No. 6083 and personnel and losses in their rights. Over the years, veteran branch managers, engineering and chief staffs have been cancelled, all technicians working in the central service have been exiled. In this institution, which is strategically important with its hundred and sixty-four years of experience and savings, it has raised concern that the service should be marketed through the transfer of cadastro services to licensed measuring offices, and in this area, the creation of the newly-friendly rich. For example, an application process in the public area is $193, while it is made for $395 in licensed measuring offices. In addition, the shift system in the map production unit, one of the major services of the agency, has been removed, and concerns have been raised that public resources have been withdrawn by exile of the value technicians who have done it. Such practices should be immediately abandoned and must be made available to the institution's own staff, for which large sums have been transferred and caused by institutional damage. Another thing that comes from bad smells is the Tapu and the Kadastro Information System, whose short name is TAKBIS. It has been heard that the operation of TAKBİS Project, which was launched by the 57th Government and was awarded the E-government Award by the AKP government, was taken from HAVELSAN, and given to Turksat (Turkish prices) at exorbitant prices. The issue must be explained by the Minister as soon as possible, for which reasons the project is intended to be removed from the HAVELSAN, whether there is an exorbitant wage difference in between. Dear lawmakers, as I said at the beginning of my speech, an example of how sloppy and disorganized arrangements by the AKP governments have been made is the deed Act. In this law, the title of the registrar of the registrar of the Tapu has been changed as director of the tapu, but the titles of the vice principals have been forgotten. Dear lawmakers, Mr. Minister has taken over Turkish political history as the political responsibility for the death of 40 of our citizens during the second Van earthquake. The Prime Minister has also stated that everyone in charge will be questioned. I'd advise the Minister to begin. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, with these thoughts, I wish the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization budget to be a good one, and I salute the grand delegation.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0048par0108	Thank you, Mr. Durmaz. Manisa MP Erkan Akçay. Here you go, Mr. Akçay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0049par0113	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the Finance Ministry and the IRS. On behalf of my party and myself, I salute your honorable delegation. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the government has issued 35 decrees on the laws of the law so far, under a law which has been severely impaired. In this case, decrees 659 and 666 were issued on November 2nd. These decrees were intended to address the imbalance of wages among public officials who were supposedly serving in the same or similar staffs. As it turns out, these decrees have turned the government's institutions upside down. Many bureaucrats have been sent to the pool, while others have been assigned to various specialists with a rank of tensile, while others have been promoted. ▪ Equal wages for equal work. These decrees have severely disturbed the balance of wages. It has caused status and financial losses, victimization, chaos, business peace and internal balance to become even more corrupt. The principles of law, justice, equality have been destroyed. Dear friends, there's a rule in physics that if it gets stuck, it explodes. Public staff, finance personnel have exploded, and thousands of financiers, managers, supervisors, specialists, civil servants are now standing. There's an action in front of the Ministry of Finance every day. Public personnel are condemned by these decrees. Experts are separated according to their employment in central and rural areas. State accounting expert, state revenues expert, state property expert, state revenue policy expert, MASAK expert, financial expert; so far, so good. Their titles have been evened, their salaries increased. However, extremely wrongly and unfairly central control officers, accountants and national property controllers, were appointed financial experts at the centre, accountants, national real estate managers and national real estate inspectors, and country bookkeeping specialists. I don't want to mention the number here, but there has been a very serious salary difference. Dear friends, the crucial thing here is that these experts were in the same position of financial rights as employment, appointment and upbringing. They even took part in the same exam for a period, and many of them worked together in the center, even in the same rooms. These are now subject to different status and financial provisions. However, there has been no change in the organization structure and tasks of these experts, except for the audit staff. In addition to that, experts working in the rural community of some institutions outside the Treasury have been given different indicators and compensation. There have been two different situations, and the stability has deteriorated further. In any case, the appointment of control units to the profession is a separate freak. Now that you have said "rebuilding," you have left the IRS in the middle. Tax office managers, IRS personnel, are crying out for their victims. Tax collectors, tax collectors, commissioners, tax collectors, tax collectors, tax collectors, tax collectors, tax collectors, tax collectors, tax collectors, tax returns, executives who are in charge of each signature and authority, tax office managers and tax office employees have no longer had the patience of such injustice and injustice. The importance of their mission, their risk, their responsibility, their intensity, is beyond compare. They have offices, no severance checks; they do audits and tax reviews, but they can't afford them when the income specialist in their possession gets audit compensation; they have financial risks, they don't have severance pay, so basically, they don't have loved ones, they don't have abusers, they're doing a lot of work, I'm afraid. Mr. Prime Minister, Reverend Government, please hear these cries, do not interrupt the branch you're riding, do not crush the people, the employees. If these people don't work well, you won't be able to sit in those high places. Don't ever replace the country with a backbone and a lifeblood of the Ministry of Finance, and please, don't be indifferent to its problems. Dear lawmakers, with the latest tax hikes, our literature has been given new concepts, and it has been called a day-to-day. There was such a different propaganda bombing that citizens almost celebrated for the raises. This update is not done with a relative increase. Up until today, the victim would have been done by increasing proportions, but now, both victim and relative updates are being made, so raises are being brought. In some vehicles, it has been moved from 68 to 80 percent. In the import of mobile phones, the OTV has increased both victim and relative, and these rates are substantially high according to inflation. And you have to ask, if you're bragging about the overpaid budget over the year, then why all the raises? Why do you get more taxes from the public? On October 13th, the Council of Ministers ruled that light commercial and commercial vehicles were increased by the OTV. In the automotive sector, almost all cars under 1,600 cc are imported. These imported automobiles were not increased by OTV, whereas most light commercial vehicles are produced in our country, and these commercial vehicles are used in domestic production and economic activities in our country. Isn't it necessary to increase production, support production to cover the main reason for the cari deficit, the foreign trade deficit? Like, shouldn't we be preventing a cigarette leak, a fuel leak? Is that how you're going to increase production and support it? You're going to close the cari deficit by raising the tax on domestic production? Telling the public that you've given a raise to the VTV of luxury-riding vehicles means nothing but deception. First, encourage domestic production to prevent a cari deficit. After a tax increase in cigarettes, the special consumption tax was reduced from 69% to 65 per cent by the end of 2012, about fifteen days later. The tax increase to cigarettes was later determined to increase inflation by 2 points, and since this also meant overcoming the inflation target, the WTV in cigarettes withdrew to 65 per cent so as not to give additional inflation increases to the taxpayers. The government would rather watch out for cigarette companies than give the officer a raise. Dear friends, this is the extent of the inflation of the cigarette I'm talking about. There's also the extent of the cigarette smuggling, which is extremely important and very valuable, the Minister of Finance declared to the citizens: "Don't smoke cigarettes, his money is going to be terrorized." It's a very true warning. And I would like to give a warning to all of our citizens from here: not only do you consume illegal cigarettes, but all contraband goods, off the record or illegal goods. However, dear friends, Turkey must implement a new price and tax policy on illegal smoking and consumption of goods. As a government, you will say that cigarette smuggling is connected to the terrorist organization, and you will add that our neighbors have a dollar when the lowest cigarette price in Turkey is $3, and you will raise taxes on cigarettes. For example, a legal cigarette with an average price of $8 lira makes $4.57, which is taxed at $3.70. The EV+KDV has reached almost 84 per cent of the price of this cigarette. Let the government plan to fight cigarette smuggling, dear friends, illegal cigarettes are being sold recklessly in the heart of the capital. What struggle are you talking about? Let's get out of here, halfway to the Capitol, the Finance Ministry, the Prime Minister's office, you can find any illegal cigarettes you want at half the market price. There's a counter open on every street street, there's illegal cigarettes sold, and illegal cigarettes almost went into the grocery store. Dear friends, I wondered if it was true what was said, what was written, what was drawn? Two days ago, I went randomly, as if I had put illegal cigarettes in my hand 300 to 400 meters away. Now we're looking at all the action plans, the struggle, the words, the promises, and, uh, how is that a struggle? Turkey has returned to its passing inn in the fight against trafficking. I repeat to all our citizens: do not use illegal cigarettes or illegal fuel, do not consume unregistered goods; the money to go to the state goes to the terror barons, and the bullet goes back to the Turkish nation. However, I would also like to make a call to the government that your regulations, your laws, are not in line with the facts of life and the nature of things. The government must first implement a right, decent price and tax policy. The government must show state authority by preventing trafficking. If you can't prevent this cigarette fugitive even in the heart of the capital, none of your words are valid. Now, the government points to the role of the terrorist organization in cigarette, fuel smuggling, which is failing, but I want to get your attention again, not to mention Barzani's role in cigarette, fuel smuggling with the red carpet. Barzani-PKK partnership in cigarette smuggling is estimated to be near $2 billion a year. You raise cigarettes, oil, however, the PKK, Barzani, is happy and profitable. You, as a government, encourage smuggling. This is not only in cigarettes, but also in fuel, then in automobiles and mobile phones. Here, if you're going to prevent a current deficit, start by preventing the government's authority by a good price and tax policy and other measures. The market has already fallen into the hands of foreign companies, foreign firms have dominated, so at least prevent the fugitive from taxing us. Dear friends, I have also looked into the prices of this illegal cigarette; it is widely sold in Ankara, Antalya, Diyarbakır, and Anatolia. The budget deficit has been reduced in nine years, but tax revenues from import value in reducing the budget deficit and tax revenues from consumption and income from citizens' debt to banks and revenues from the banking system's tax revenues have played a big role. The sale of cari open and public enterprises is more of a problem than the budget deficit, when domestic production is reduced and import dependency becomes chronic. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, with these thoughts, I wish you the best of the 2012 budget, and I salute your honorable committee.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0050par0132	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Tekirdağ MP Bkent Belen. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Belen. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0051par0137	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party on the budgetary bill of 2012, the Privatisation Administration and the Public Contraction Agency budget. I salute the General Assembly and the great Turkish nation. Members of parliament, as it is known, the 57th Government, which also co-operated with the National Movement Party, adopted the Law on Public Contracts No. 4734 and the Law on Public Relations No. 4735 in 2002, in the date of the release of Article 53 of the Law and Articles One and 5th Articles of the Law on January 1, 2003. At the time when the law was published and the board was formed with Article 53, there was power of the 57th government. As a result of this, the first work by the AKP in the 2002 elections was to delay the implementation of Law 4734, which was difficult to make the tender difficult, that the laws of the Law failed to comply with the speed of governments, that the municipalities could not do business, that the Law was allowed to be put to work through the press to ensure that it was delayed for at least a year in the history of the implementation of the Law, but that the conditions and international institutions on that day were obliged to enforce its laws. At that time, no one understood the government's position, but when they saw the practices later, it became clear to them what the real intentions were. Before the law goes into effect, awake administrations such as Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, the tenders announced prior to the execution of the law, are completed according to the old-fashioned way. They immediately announced hundreds of tenders, before the execution of the Law, and they tendered the way they knew how to avoid the Law. Members of parliament, the fight against the Law on Public Relations with the AKP government continues from November 2002 to today. When you can't do business, it's very difficult to apply the law, it's a long period of complaint. With excuses like that, blaming the Law and the institution is the most common method, but the main intention is to create their own secondary capital by giving them the tender they want. When this adventure and the course of the struggle were carefully followed, it was seen that changes were made exactly 20 times in order to achieve the outcome of what was left of the Law, making exceptions at each time in the third article of the Law (r) was made an exception to making a formal tender by coming to the section (r) of the Law. At this rate, the alphabetic letters will not be enough for the AKP government. They've opened their way of making no questions, no questions, no questions, no tenders, to provide witness protection from distribution of coal to the poor, to any area that doesn't come to mind until the purchases of the State Supplies Office. What happened to this Law probably did not happen to any other law. From the time it was established, the institution was neutralized by limited examination of these powers by the Public Contracting Agency, which reviews the tender corruption, appeals and complaints in the written and visual media over the entire file. The State of the Union has made significant changes to Article 53, which regulates the structure and functioning of the Law under the final rule of law, in the new form of Article 53, which consists of nine members appointed by the Minister of Finance and by the Council of Ministers. The chairman of the board is also the head of the Foundation. Formerly, there were six members of the Council of Ministers appointed by the Council of Ministers, two of whom were Ministry quotas, the Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges, and the Union of Employers of Turkey, and the Council of State and Court of Appeals. The administrative and financial autonomy that the Law intended to bring to Kurula in the former form of Article 53 is surely free of the pressure of transparency and political authority in its decisions, recognizing both the sector and the willing part of its sector, and able to address their problems on the board. Under the amendment, the Public Contraction Agency and the Council, in particular, have been fully under the control and influence of the government, and has been transformed into an ordinary agency in the direction of political power, which also belongs to the Ministry of Finance. The Public Contracting Law, issued by the 57th Government, is expected to be an authority on the name-only tender, and the Institution is expected to regulate the market by making decisions that are not the hope of the orphans, but are completely removed from the structure that protects the rights of those seeking rights, has been made ineffective, inefficient, and complicated by making people in the sector look at the institution with anger and doubt. According to the law, the discharges should be appointed within a month, while the institution's presidency and a membership staff have not been appointed by the government for more than eight months. The AKP government, which did not provide support due to the lack of labour, officer, pensioner, farmer and tradesman's resources, allowed the Public Contraction Agency to rent buildings at around $200,000 a month. And now for the President of the Privatisation Administration. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the privatisation practices in Turkey began for the first time with Law 2983 and continued until 1984. As there are privatisations that we believe should be done, we are clearly opposed to certain predetermined privatisations of its consequences. While agreeing with the idea that the state should be a supervisor, not an actor in the economy, it would be better to improve than to sell the strategic significance of the KİSCE, which now appears to be the life vessels of production and industrialisation in the early years of our republic. It's not the right thing to expect the AKP authorities to make fair and proper privatisation, which has made public tenders and the Law. In the first emerging philosophy of privatisation, the bloc has been seen in sales where capital has been spread to the ground, some of which have been cancelled by the AKP, some of which are due to corruption and irregularity, and then re-trialed by public pressure, and then sold to three to five times the first tender prices. The sale of the ESCEs, which exist economically, and the restoration of its assets to the economy in a productive way, should not have been neglected in institutions, such as Turkish Telekom, energy distribution companies, but which are profitable and often monopoly. While privatisation was being conducted, citizens were unable to provide cheap goods and services. An example is that the telephone and Internet use costs, which should be cheapened by the privatisation of Telekom (Telecom), are not cheap, today in Japan, a dollar a month, and the Internet service, which is a few dollars a day in European countries, is around $30. With energy privatisations, it's unfair to put the missing fugitive prices, which have reached 25 per cent of the bills, which are reflected in the bills by companies after the transfer of energy distribution companies. It is the government's duty to prevent this injustice. A bad example of privatisation is that in Tekirdağ, my own constituency district, the company that bought Tekeli, along with its privatisation of $2292m, soon earned $600m in unfair profit by selling to the American company, which former Prime Minister's adviser Cüneyt Zapsu. In addition, hundreds of workers were victimised in the privatisation of the Tekel Cigarette Factory and the government did not listen to the voice of workers who had been resisting in Ankara for days. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as the National Movement Party, I declare that we will vote against the 2012 budget, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0052par0159	Thank you, Mr. Belen. In his name, in his favour, İstanbul MP Erol Kaya. Here you go, Mr. Rock. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0053par0164	Mr. President, I have received a pledge in favor of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization budget. I salute your high council. My dear friends, the words "divine" and "madine" are derived from one another. We also see that in Western languages, the word "civilation" is derived from the word "civic" (e.g. "civilation"). No doubt there is an ancient relationship between society, the city, civilization, and the environment. The coming of the environment as a problem and as a value to mankind is the result of urbanization. Building cities that fit the lives of many people and developing production infrastructure to meet the needs of these people has been the trigger for environmental problems. Cities don't just shape the people who live in it, they determine the imagination, the horizon, and the vision of the next generation. A child who looks at the world from the window of a slum is not the same as a child who looks through the window of Solomoniye. We are children of a nation that has brought great and exemplary cities to human history, which have produced civilization from these cities. We are descendants of a generation, like Diyarbakir, like Konya, like Bursa, like Mardin, like Edirne, and of course, built civilization centers like Istanbul. We are the bearers of a heritage of civilization that has made cities like Baghdad, Jerusalem, Cairo, Skopje, Sarajevo and so many other cities. Unfortunately, the cities that we have today and live in today are cities far away from this vision of ancient civilization. In addition to population growth, migration, and poverty in the last century, bad governments have set the stage for our cities' internally despoiling, decaying, and decaying. Like the architect Sinan, it is not, of course, understandable and understandable, that a civilization that has raised great masters such as the architect Astonin would waver at the point of environmental and urbanization. So, as the AK PARTY, we look at our cities and environment with both our heritage of civilization and the wealth and the horizon that universal values give us. While we struggle to compensate for decades of neglect, we strive to take our understanding of urbanism to the next level, one of the greatest treasures our civilization has left us. This is the result of the violation of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. Mr. President, our country has taken historical steps to protect the environment. The United Nations Convention on Climate Change, the Kyoto Protocol and the Stockholm Convention have been sided with many important international agreements. While many countries left the environmental chapter at the end of their accession talks to the European Union, Turkey opened this chapter as chapter 27. Our ministry has earmarked $552m of the $1.6 billion budget for 2012. Protection plans and special decision-making of water basins in our country are under way. In 2003, 36 per cent of the country's population was refined for waste water, with a rate of 70 per cent in 2010 and 81 per cent in 2012. As of today, 41 million people are being served in 59 facilities concerning solid waste, while 46 million people are being served in 2012. For this reason, the Su Sewers and Infrastructure Project, whose short name is SDUAP, has been launched, and the project has a budget of $550m. In 2011, Ilbank, who was restructured and turned into a bank, allocated more than $3 billion to local governments. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, crooked urbanization, lack of control, unscheduled urbanization, have made our country and our nation pay a very heavy price and continue to pay. Tens of years of neglect are at the core of the fact that we have lost hundreds of our citizens today with earthquakes and other disasters. As the EC PARTY, we are determined to carry out this transformation, to entrust more habitable cities and a protected environment to future generations. We will do so at any cost, and it has been expressed by our Prime Minister, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan himself. With our nation's support and assistance, I hope that Turkey will achieve the level of development, construction and understanding that its civilization requires and guides. Thank you, and I salute your grand delegation with the wish of the 2012 budget as a blessing.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0054par0175	Thank you, Mr. Rock. Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar. Here you go, Mr. Flagtar. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0055par0180	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as part of the 2012 budget bill talks, I'm going to try to provide information on the activities of our ministry. I hereby salute your high council. Also, I'd like to thank all of my fellow lawmakers here today who have been critical of our budget and informing. As it is known, the changing world, established in accordance with the conditions of our developing and developing country, has been structured to prepare and oversee legislation for the environment, settlement and construction. In this regard, we need criticism, warnings, and support from you valued lawmakers. Today, more than half of the world's population and more than 75 percent of the population of our country live in cities. With urbanization, environmental problems have increased. In our country, since 1950, the governments of the era have taken various measures to resolve these problems. Although many legal arrangements have been made by this Parliament, intensive and irregular migration to cities and economic inadequacies have failed to prevent planned and distorted construction. On the other hand, a significant portion of our residential units face natural disaster risks, particularly the earthquake. Our current building stock is at risk of causing loss of life and property in the face of potential disasters. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, a total of 4.8 million homes have been produced in the last nine years, including 500,000 as a state and 4.3 million as a private sector. These dwellings are solid homes with engineering services, but still a significant portion of our housing stock is in need of renovation. For these reasons, the need for urban transformation to rid our country of distorted structures is important and urgent, but even developed countries are being forced into urban transformation. When we look at the world today, Spain, which is one step ahead of us, has entered the European Union and has raised its annual income to over 15,000 dollars per person, and South Korea has been able to solve the slum problem after raising its year-on-year income to over $20,000 per person. Mexico, Brazil, Egypt, Pakistan, Thailand, on the other hand, has problems in the slums of many other countries. On the other hand, transformations require great challenges and financial burdens. For example, the Brazilian state plans to allocate $570 billion to transform 200 areas of emergency slums. It is also known that tens of millions of emergency housing are needed in China and India. We also know that there is a need for social housing in Africa, Southeast Asia, Middle East, and Central Asia. Similar problems are being experienced in our country as well as in the world. Squatification and illegal construction have prevented our cities from growing and developing, causing the destruction of the natural environment, increasing the loss of goods and lives in case of disaster, creating a structure that also feeds poverty. In the nine-year period, we have launched 63 thousand housing apps in 134 districts, including the largest Subsection and Urban Renewal Programme in the history of the republic, from Kars. From banon to Tripoli, Ankara to Diyarbakır, and Gaziantep to İstanbul. During the same period, we produced 22,000 disaster housing. These comprehensive practices have given our government experience. From land and land production to planning, from urban design to project, from financing to site management, we've had serious experiences in all stages of housing production and urban design. At the same time, the construction of slums has stopped, thanks to measures taken during this period. In all these studies, we've also seen the challenges of urban transformation. At the point of the problem's solution, despite so many well-intentioned work and legislation regulations so far, measures have failed to meet the expected results. Therefore, we have prepared and presented to the Prime Minister a bill for a legal arrangement aimed at practice, which protects the citizens and solves problems. If we can unify this law with the support of our Supreme Assembly, we will be able to minimize the damage of disasters and pave the way for building modern settlements. With this arrangement, the disaster will begin without any political distinction, primarily by identifying risky areas, cooperating with relevant institutions and organisations, including local governments. Mr. President, we need the support of all concerned sections and you valued lawmakers so that the suffering of the past doesn't happen again. Besides, we want our country and our people to be healthy with their power, with their opposition, at all costs. In this direction, we have to launch a massive campaign of urban transformations for improvements from rural areas to larger cities and for settlements prepared for natural disasters. Public opinion is now in Turkey for urban transformation. This encourages us. In this direction, we have to form a common mind by taking advantage of the contributions of our political parties, civil society organisations, universities, engineers, architects, city planners, sociologists, lawyers, private sectors and rights. Our main axis will be to ensure a transformation within the interests of our nation and our country. The most realistic solutions to the interests of the nation will be created, preventing unrealistic rant expectations, protecting the rights of our law-abiding citizens, not giving bonuses to understandings that undermine the sense of justice in society. However, we act and act on the fact that urban transformation is not only the key to renovating buildings but also the key to maintaining social union. This is that urban transformations increase the standard of life beyond the creation of modern and modern cities, reduce poverty, protect natural resources and create healthy environments, create serious reductions in ghettoisation, and prevent illegal formations. By boosting business potential, it stimulates the economy and increases employment. It allows our people to live in happier and more modern environments in peace and security. It gives our children a healthy future. Dear MPs, I want to thank your delegation for the extensive regulations made by this great Parliament in the zoning, floor ownership, publicisation, urban transformation, site administrations, deed and cadastro laws. Likewise, if we can make this a whole and comprehensive state policy with your contributions, hopefully we'll have some very good results. We, together with our ministry, have issued the Council of Ministers' decision on the Istanbul Ataşehir Financial Centre and Istanbul Sultanbeyli projects as part of the urban transformation, and have started implementing them. Dear lawmakers, apparently not earthquakes, but rotten buildings. The structures that were built without an earthquake risk are unsupervised, inferior, and unengineered, unable to resist earthquakes and other disasters. We're going to strengthen a technical counseling system that makes licenses easier for the creation of a strong and institutional system of control, but makes control much tighter in practice, making it much more serious. For this reason, we are working to address audit-related setbacks, to determine more clearly the duties, powers and responsibilities of all concerned in the production process, and to effectively monitor control agencies. Mr. President, dear friends, in the coming period, priorities will be set and the necessary financial support will be provided for the strengthening of all technical infrastructure of local governments.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0056par0189	You confiscated their current income, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0055par0190	Technical counseling services and arrangements for the qualifications and professional skills of experts will be made. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, our ministry will also draft plans for national and regionally qualified spatial development strategy in accordance with development policies across the country. With these plans, areas that are important for trade and industry, developing rural settlements, tourism districts, conservation areas and disaster areas will become more clear. In addition, investment environments will be improved by the balance of protection and use. On the other hand, all environmental order plans across the country will be completed by the end of 2014. We've also accelerated plans for coastal areas. Again, with regard to the structures to be built in rural settlements, local architecture was given to our people free of charge by building safe, model construction projects that were using local materials. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we're also working on improving the brand values of our cities and boosting the competitiveness. Dear lawmakers, when we refer to the world with a neutral eye, the photograph we give today is that our Prime Minister's leadership, Turkey, is in an honorable movement of development and development in all areas, especially politics and the economy. Our ultimate goal is to maintain firm determination by increasing our efforts to become a leader and model country. At this point, our main goal is to turn our cities into high-level settlements with technical infrastructure and healthy environments. In this direction, we work for a habitable environment, sustainable development and a clean Turkey. Dear lawmakers, we have established an effective system by using information and communication technologies under environmental management and supervision. We've developed a tracking system for greenhouse gas emissions. On the other hand, we're doing new studies to make our cities calm and peaceful by taking measures to reduce the noise from its source. In order to prevent environmental management and pollution, we have established our road map in the short, medium, and long term in the basin, in order to protect water and soil resources. As part of the fight against climate change and the protection of the ozone layer, strategy documents and action plans have been completed. Our country is best represented in negotiations on international contracts and protocols we side with. Mr. President, our country is the fourth in the world with 341 blue flags on a clean sea gauge measurement. We provide and provide substantial grants to our municipalities in order to establish regular solid waste storage areas and wastewater treatment facilities. We simplified the process by reducing the 199 documents required in the application process for CED, the environmental permits and languages that the facilities must receive, which are pollutants. Mr. President, dear friends, there have been also significant developments in the Turkish construction industry over the past nine years. Building materials were given significant support for exports by increasing diversity and improving quality. In the coming period, audits will also be increased and the incentive system will be developed by collaborating with universities at the point of producing quality, ergonomics and environmentally friendly materials. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers will be kept on record as of January 1, 2012, when construction contractors and veterans will work in construction and plumbing. From now on, structures will be conducted by certified masters who follow technology and are subject to internal training. Techniques and technicians will take part in the production work along with architects and engineers. The number of documents in building licenses and building permits will be reduced, and the process will be simplified by highlighting the services and responsibilities of technical consultants. It is imperative that the buildings obtain an energy identity certificate to ensure energy efficiency. In this way, energy will be saved and greenhouse gas emissions will be significantly reduced. Mr. President, my dear friends, a portal has been created by our Ministry to ensure the presentation and sharing of geographical information at the national level. This will also provide the spatial component of e-state applications. Our ministry also conducts jobs and procedures for national parks, nature parks, natural sites, protection, use and construction of private environmental protection zones. We've set up committees to protect nature's assets to decide on these issues. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the cadastro work of all provinces has been completed by the Tapu and the Kadastro General Directorate, except for a few troubled provinces. The deed to the property office in the district where the real estate is available for the simplest deed can now be processed without going to the deed office in the area of the property. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, an appointment is made on the Internet at the deed offices and the deed is facilitated. The 2/B cadastro, requested by the Forest General Directorate, will be completed by the end of 2012. Again, interest rates for loans provided to our municipalities by the Bank of Provinces have been reduced, deadlines extended and diversity increased. In 2011, loans were provided to all municipalities who requested loans without exception to all municipalities who met the requirements. Again, within BELDES and SDUAP, municipalities are supported by the use of half grants and half of long-term loans on the construction of drinking water and infrastructure facilities. Again, municipalities were given around 83 million grants from the Bank of Provinces in 2011. Cutbacks cut by the bank by 70 per cent have been reduced by 70 per cent, relatively the revenues of municipalities have been increased by nearly 1 billion euros. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been structured to re-rehabilitate our cities at the point where our Ministry, the Republic of Turkey, is coming, to improve the awareness of environmental and urbanism, and to ensure urban transformations together in the coming process. In this direction, we, the Ministry, are trying to create an exciting, meticulous structure. I'd like to express that we will conduct our efforts with all our efforts in the development and development of our country. He hereby wishes the 2012 budget to be good for our country and our nation, and I give you all the warmest respect.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0057par0213	Thank you, Mr. Flagtar. Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Lightning. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0058par0218	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the income budget of 2012, with the finance ministry's final account in 2010 and the budget for the cost budget and the chairman of the IRS. Before we begin with my words, I salute your grand delegation and the citizens who are watching us on their screens on behalf of myself and the Ministry of Finance. So if you'll excuse me, I'd like to respond to some criticism of today's 20 minutes, and I'd like to share with you, of course, how we support RAGE, investment, employment through income policies. Of course, at the beginning of my words, I would like to thank you very much for the contributions, constructive criticism, and evaluations that you have done earlier today, both in regard to our budget. There's been a lot of criticism or assessment of the Public Contractorship. First of all, I'd like to point out that the purpose of some changes with the latest Amendment under the Law Rule 661 is, of course, not to undermine the financial and administrative autonomy of the Public Contraction Agency in any way, but to preserve financial and administrative autonomy. Here, it is true, the number of members has been reduced from 11 to 9. However, the fact that members of the board were appointed by the Council of Ministers was already an issue that existed. Instead of different institutional proposals, the Council of Ministers has been given full authority, of course, to that effect. The Agency, again, concludes these examinations within 20 days of the file's co-existence in all investigations. But from time to time, the delay of information and documents requested from other public institutions and third parties, of course, delays the study process, causing delays. It's probably been expressed before. Only 3.2 per cent of Turkish-wide tenders were reported in 2010, and only 14.9 per cent of the decisions made by the Council went to trial. So, of course, the number of tenders, which are actually complaining, is relatively low and has been resolved before the trial, and, of course, the complaint is very high, about 85-86 per cent. TOKI is subject to CIT legislation. ONLY there is an exception in the land purchase and publicisation process of TOKI (TİKI), which is regulated by law. WHY is the law often changed? True, it has often been changed. The exceptions made by special laws have been substantial, but the efforts to comply with EU legislation have also been effective in the changes in the institutional structures of public institutions. In fact, I don't approve of the fact that these exceptions are so intense, that the laws and the exceptions are being made, and I really don't approve of them, and let's try this law again, let's get closer to the European Union's legislation, let's review the threshold values, let's make these processes more effective in a way that reduces these exceptions. And hopefully, in the next year, we'll share that kind of work with you, and we'll all be reducing those exceptions together. When you look at the EU Progress Report in 2011, you know there are public purchases, an assessment has been made that the public tender agency has the administrative capacity to do its job. Again, several very specific issues have been raised here, particularly complaints about tenders such as Izmir and Eskişehir subways, Eskişehir-Bozuzük divided road tenders, Istanbul sea buses and the Istanbul Metropolitan City bus tender. All these complaints were completed on time, without delay. Only three-thousandths of the tenders owned by İzmir Metropolitan Municipality have been cancelled so far. Therefore, there can be no biased treatment of the Public Contraction Agency towards any municipality or institution, and if such a thing happens, we will be the first to intervene. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, as usual, have been evaluated, some criticisms have been brought. Our esteemed MP, Mr. Genghis Yavilioglu, in his speech on privatisation practices in our country, has actually touched on a lot of issues; since he had previously worked in the Privatisation Administration, he has also given some really good numbers because he has done academic research on the subject. First of all, I'd like to point out that the purpose of our privatisation is not the result of an approach to gain more income or to run a private sector of some of the public's institutions. The basic goal is, how do we increase competition, efficiency? Because only in economies with competition and efficiency can lasting prosperity be created. The institutions, of course, need modernisation and investment, the SOCs have had it in the past, and they have it today. It is, of course, preferable, not with limited public resources, but with private sector opportunities, in fact, in our country, but in other countries. All our tenders, our privatisation tenders are transparent, very clear. It's all done in front of television screens, if there's any interest. We are also very sensitive to the fact that companies in the state monopoly, which are after privatisation, do not become private sector monopolys, and of course the necessary steps have been taken to create regulatory, regulatory institutions and to establish the legal framework for this. Of course, it is very important for us to look after the rights of the workers after the privatisation, and as you know, we have those sensibilities. In these recent privatisations, of course, decisions have been made, both for the protection of the number of employees there and for investments and for the continuation of production. And if you'll excuse me, I'd like to clear up this earthquake tax issue. Now, at a press conference, when I explained the results of the budget, I was asked a question, well, it was said, where were the tax taxes being spent? I said exactly what I said there, because there's no text in front of me, and I said: tax revenues are collected in a pool, and from these tax revenues to our country's health, education, education, double roads, railways, farmers are spent.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0059par0233	So the funerals of those who died in the earthquake can go smoothly on that road, eh, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0058par0234	In fact, I've made it clear that tax revenues can't be assigned to any expense...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0059par0235	Let the hearses go in peace on those roads!
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0058par0236	I said that there was a tax generality principle, that all tax revenues were collected in a pool and spent in that pool, but the next day, the papers said that I didn't know the principle of unity in the budget, even our main opposition leader -- probably from that news -- that I probably don't know. In fact, in a very specific context, I answered the question with an approach to that principle, and I said: "All tax revenues are collected in the budget, the needs of the country are provided there, and that's really how it is in our country, and that's the way it is in the whole world. It was like that in 1999, and in 1999, there was, of course, an arrangement for the healing of earthquake wounds, but the reason there was a very clear -- I don't want to take your time, but -- is that in 1999, the reason for the law when these earthquake taxes were being delivered was that: the enforcing of the depression wounds, the support of the economic stability programme. There was an economic stability programme supported by the IMF at that time...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0060par0237	It doesn't mean that, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0058par0238	...and as such, the letter of intent given to the IMF on December 9, 1999 is made very clear to the IMF, and one of the purposes of these taxes is to ensure economic stability, of course, they are said to have been brought in. Again, in 2000, special communication tax and special processing tax were extended for two years, and it was made very clear that these taxes were extended as a requirement of the economic stability programme. So in our country, after-quake taxes have arrived, that's true, but if you want a tax to be earmarked for any expense, then a private fund will be set up, and there will be expenditures from that fund. So, in fact, in fact, in 1999, and then in no time at all, an earthquake tax, an earthquake fund, was not created by the principle of unity in this budget. Full taxes are collected in a pool, where all the needs of our country are provided, and I want to express it. Update or raise? Again, while we explain the measures we're taking at a press conference, I say, very clearly, we're raising taxes on light commercial vehicles with the Binek auto function. Look, we're increasing the tax. Why? Because it's here to prevent unfair competition. Sir, here we are raising taxes on over 1,600 cc's of automobiles. I'm just saying, we're going to raise it, I'm going to underline it. Why? Because it's just a precaution against the obvious. Again, I say...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0061par0243	You're updating?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0058par0244	I'll be there. I'm saying we're increasing the KKDF as a measure against the current deficit again. And then, I say: "The taxes on cigarettes and alcoholic beverages..." I mean here I say: you have to see the increase as an update because we're basically updating the victim's taxes to inflation. I'm going to add 3 to the tax, and I'm going to say 2 victims to increase taxes, to increase inflation in parallel with...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0062par0247	Thanks to you, Mr. Secretary, the names of the raises have been called today.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0058par0248	...unfortunately, the next day, it's all in the papers again. So...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0062par0249	Turkish has won a new language!
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0058par0250	It's not a new language, dear friends.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0062par0251	And will the other ministers say, when they give a raise, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0058par0252	Now, in all countries, victim taxes are increased in parallel with inflation every year, and they don't even make a special arrangement to increase it, automatically. Look, now, a lot of our taxes are victims. If you don't increase it, it will be less valuable every year than inflation. If you don't increase your services to 74 million, you'll have to explain them and close them with debt. It's very clear. Now, dear friends...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0063par0255	Mr. Secretary, when are you going to update the pensioners' salaries? Will you update them as well?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0058par0256	We've updated our pensions far beyond inflation, we're always updating, we'll keep updating.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0064par0257	Don't format it, you guys are always formatting it!
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0058par0258	Now, why did we raise taxes on riding commercial vehicles? Look, we didn't increase all the commercial vehicles, but we've actually increased what's on board, what's on board. Why? Because there were very serious initiatives from the industry about unfair competition. Almost everyone wanted to produce a similar car -- I call it a similar car -- and put it on the market. So we said, "That's not true. But we've taken a step towards overcoming this unfair rivalry of those who exist. Now, the criticism of smoking... Dear friends, there's been a hint here that the inspection wasn't done. In 2008 and October 2011, 772,999 taxpayers were audited, cigarette sellers, manufacturers. The number of controlled products -- which is, there's bandrol here -- has to be inspected -- 23 million 498,720. The number of files reported to the prosecution is 1,830. I'd like to point out that the number of products captured, unbanded or simulated is 2 million, 301,513; and that's where 80 million packs of cigarettes were seized in 2010 alone as a result of the activities of our law enforcement in the fight against cigarette smuggling. In January 2011, 70 million packages were seized in a similar way during September 2011. More recently, a Tobacco Action Plan in the fight against trafficking has been drafted, implemented, 37 actions and 14 targets have been laid out. I'm going to follow them as strongly as I can from now on.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0065par0261	The cigarette increase has increased Barzani's income, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0058par0262	Dear friends, the local share of automobiles is 34 per cent and 66 per cent of imports, until 1,600 cc (sold in 2010). Here, our friends said: between 1300 and 1,600 cc's, not all imports and taxes. Dear friends, of course, there's always a lot going on here. There's always this discussion about the liquor unit of the monopoly. Of course, in 2004, with an open, transparent tender, for $292 million, the monopoly alcohol section is privatised. A few years later, it changes hands, and a few years later, it changes hands again. The latest exchange is over $2 billion. So, how does this work? Now, if you'll excuse me, dear friends: Look, between 2004 and the second sale of the company, the company raises the number of products from 17 to 50, and increases its turnover by 3 times. Now, his taxes are up 1.5 times, twice as high. The rise in value here is entirely and entirely related to the value released after privatisation. Look, it's like...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0066par0265	Something stinks in there, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0058par0266	Dear friends, look at this...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0066par0267	So it would be very difficult to explain the sale that way.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0058par0268	But let me ask you this: Let's say the first sale is about $300 million, the second sale is $800 million. So, how does private sector to private sector come to $2.1 billion two years later?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0066par0269	It's considered a sale of joy, Minister. The first sale is thought to be a sale.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0058par0270	So a value was created, my friends. A value is created, dear friends. Look, in Turkey, the stock market is worth 10,000, up from about 10,000 to 70-80,000 levels, down to 50,000 levels today. So in a period of time, the stock market, the company's value, let's say about 10,000 levels...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0067par0272	First you have to look at the initial value, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0058par0273	You have to look at it.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0067par0274	You have to take care of him.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0068par0275	Ten times, almost ten times.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0058par0276	Now, dear friends, if you'll excuse me, I've got two minutes left here, and I can't get into any of the other things for him, but I want to put it this way, whether it's privatisation or the struggle for trafficking, the will is there. We've actually carried out any economic policy that would actually make more value for the benefit of our country, create more employment, of course, so to this day, we've done it decisively and so to this day. Privatisation was done during all governments. See, no privileges. These privatized companies have been sold to local foreign companies during all governments, and we don't find it wrong. All governments...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0068par0278	Our objection to not selling it at its value is not to sell it, Minister.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0058par0279	Look, when the Republican People's Party, of course, was a coalition partner, these privatisations were made at the time when the National Movement Party was also a coalition government partner; they were sold to its native and its stranger, and we find privatisation correct in terms of increasing competition, increasing efficiency. And we're going to go on because it's really good for the country, and not only did Turkey do it; it was done from Latin America to Asia, because all the countries in all the world were right. I, again, thank you all for your contributions during this budget period, for your evaluations, for your constructive criticism, and for all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0069par0282	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0070par0283	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0069par0284	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0070par0285	Sir, Mr. Secretary has made an assessment of the taxes brought in after the 1999 earthquake. At the time, as a law-making, responsible party in the government, I'd like to correct this misinformation the Minister has given me, if I may.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0069par0286	Your microphone is on, sir, so I need you to...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0070par0287	Because of the bullying, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0069par0288	It's not teasing, sir, it's correction, so if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0070par0289	Sir, don't tease me. There's a difference of opinion attributed to us. I don't want it in my place, I want it off the stand because according to 69, Mr. Secretary has given us a different opinion.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0071par0290	There are charges, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0070par0291	I want to fix it from the stand.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0072par0292	Mr. Vural, please respond from your position.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0070par0293	I don't want to talk about my place, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0072par0294	Well, then, suit yourself.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0070par0295	Yes, well, then, I'm going to start a discussion of the procedure, sir, about your attitude.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0072par0296	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0070par0297	Against you...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0072par0298	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0073par0299	Mr. President, I want a word, too. Against you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0070par0302	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. I asked for a word against your attitude because according to Article 69. A Mr. Secretary has attributed a wrong topic to a period of responsibility before. The sentence of Article 69 is clearly violated. In that case, you must make a promise to anyone who asks for a word for it. The request for a statement is based on the 60th article, with a brief request for a word. Therefore, you must decide according to my request. It's not right to take advantage of that. If there was a request for a place like that, in his opinion, of course, I'd know how to use my place. Of course, the Minister's statement is related to the 1999 earthquake. Yes, on that day, an earthquake with very important economic consequences was affected by close to 36 per cent of real national income. So when this happens, the measures intended to bind these earthquake wounds are all related to that earthquake, and the taxes related to this earthquake are continuous, short-term, until 2003. Later, Mr. Mehmet Simsek said: "It has been extended before me." Before you, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan was converted into a permanent tax. Thus, when the National Movement Party is in power, its tax was taxed directly in order to bind earthquake wounds, or if we wanted a permanent tax there, we would have passed the law accordingly. You're the one who turned it into a permanent tax. Its relationship with economic stability is to reduce the impact of the extraordinary spending of the earthquake on economic stability, otherwise the tax would be permanent if it were not brought directly to economic stability. I wanted to fix it. Thank you for your promise.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0074par0306	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Lehte Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0075par0310	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Of course, while using an expression here, our Minister correctly expressed it by looking at the speech of the Law and also the motive. Look, I would like to say the general reason for Law 4481 is that with this arrangement, the wounds of our citizens who were damaged in the earthquake will be tried to heal, while the economic stability programme, which has been under way for some time before new structural problems were created in the economy, will be carried out. This is made very clear in the reason for the Law. It's the same way...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0076par0314	You don't understand.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0075par0315	We understand, and our whole nation understands, but it won't be a problem if you understand what you're doing.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0076par0316	And this temporary tax, brother, you've made it permanent.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0075par0317	In the same way, look, dear friends, it's been extended for two years. And here's the reason for the extension.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0076par0318	Don't talk about things you don't know!
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0075par0319	The reason for extension also states that the economic stabilisation programme must reach its goal, that tax revenues will be observed at the same level of success during the programme, and that the economic and social conditions that change with economic needs must be maintained. The drafting of this framework consists of nine articles. The economic stability programme includes goals and changes required by economic developments and other external factors. The implementation period of the provision, which allows private processing tax and private communication taxes brought with the bill 4481, and the transfer of income from some institutions to the general budget, has been extended for two years. Third: There is also a letter of intent offered to the IMF in the title of "Maliye Politics," dated December 18, 2000. In addition to measures imposed on September 14, 2000, which are expected to save up to 1/4 per cent of the year-on-year non-national client, some measures are being taken in order to partially eliminate the effects of removing temporary measures in the budget of 2000, ahead of the adoption of the 2001 budget. Now, the reason for the law here is very clear; you're going to maintain economic stability, you're going to transfer...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0077par0322	There's been an earthquake, and if you don't patch up the earthquake's injuries, can you stabilize?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0075par0323	You're going to break the law and you're going to extend it for two more years on the same grounds, and you're still fighting it here. What the Minister says is true.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0077par0324	Why did you turn it into permanent, where did the earthquake taxes go? You answer to him.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0075par0325	I agree with the president's attitude. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0078par0328	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0079par0329	Mr. President, in favor of your attitude, sir...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0078par0330	Against the word of Mr. Young, then I'll give it to you. Here you go, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0080par0332	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, now we're watching the leadership of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Here, the ruling party, the group's deputy presidents and lawmakers are given every time they want a word and they're on the stand. As for the opposition, I'm afraid they're very stingy. But the opposition is actually supposed to be spoken here. The Minister expressed some information here on the stand. For example, he gave me some information about privatisation. He said: "The monopoly was privatized for 292 million dollars, and a few years later it went to 810 million dollars, and a few years later it was sold again." Guys, this isn't like this. Look, look at the privatized locations of the monopoly, $292 million, the stockpile that was in that monopoly warehouse that day. Let alone everything... there's 100 acres of land in the city, 200 acres of land in the most stable parts of the city, and they're worth a thousand times as much as it was at that time. I mean, you know, he bought it for $292 million first, very soon, and then he sold it for $810 million a year later. That area sold again for $2 billion, $100 million. My dear friends, for example, Manisa. - If Mr. Bulent were here, I would say, Mr. Bulent, why didn't you prevent it? One of the Sumerian Holdings was given to a group for $3.7 million, and six months after that, half of it was sold for $15.5 million. So these prices are based on what? Besides, what's up with that, guys? Here's a real estate in Balıkesir, they brought 51 million dollars, they brought it to the Collars, they gave it to their relatives for $1.1 million, and then the Court called it off. Again, friends of the sugar factory... the Kütahya Sugar Factory brought a $200 million factory... for $14 million they gave it to the AKP MP, and the citizens need to know. Oh, there's a trick to the sale there, the deed's been tampered with, and then it's in the court records, where the 113-acre land was unfairly overturned by Kiler. We're still asking the Minister: What did you do and why didn't you buy it; why did you sell this 113 acres of Turkish Sugar Factory land to Kiler? On top of that, you changed the deed by drawing over a deed. This needs to be said. But, of course, we didn't have time to say it, so we couldn't say it. So, friends, especially the presidents, give us the floor. Thank you, sir, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0081par0341	Thank you, Mr. Young. On the other hand, İstanbul MP Akif Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0082par0343	Mayor, we wanted a word, but you didn't see it.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0081par0344	I didn't see it, sir, my friends wrote it down.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0082par0345	Well, then, take the minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0081par0346	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi. We're talking about my attitude.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0083par0347	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, when the earthquake tax debate took place, I felt the need to present some information about the matter to the General Assembly. Following the quakes of August 17th and November 12th in 99th, under the economic stabilisation programme, which was also under way at the end of 99th, under the influence of both, the government then implemented an economic programme, which included a financial package within the programme. So if one of the reasons for bringing in additional taxes is an earthquake, the other is an economic stability programme. There's no argument here. Taxes go into the budget, and taxes are not assigned to any expenditure, according to the principle of the budget union. The provisions or funds, which have been placed in this direction in the budgets in the past, have been removed from implementation over time because they have violated fiscal discipline. However, when the ruling party spokesmen evaluate here, they take full responsibility to the government at the time, as if nothing had been done in their own time. I resent that. Yes, at the end of '99, the government at the time put together an important financial package. Behind the figures expressed as the performance of the income budget today are the actions of the government at the time. Let's get this on the record once. However, the government at the time eventually imposed these taxes until the end of 2002. Taxes imposed to be applied by the end of 2000 were then extended until the end of 2002. When the AKP was in power with the November 2002 elections, the AKP had previously pledged to remove additional taxes, perhaps with that need, extended the implementation of taxes for a year; it may be understood, it may not have done inventory yet, but by the end of 2003, it has made these taxes permanent. Let's figure this out once. Second: This has expanded the scope of taxes. For example, tax coverage has been expanded and made permanent, including the private communication tax on mobile phone calls, including talks on fixed phones. So the Justice and Development Party government is not innocent of this. Can a call from a landline be included in a private communication tax? But the government did. Again, the pencils of the special processing tax are permanently placed between stamp tax and tuition. I'd like to offer this to you for your information. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0084par0353	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. There's no change in my attitude.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0085par0355	Mr. President, of course, Mr. Hamzacebi said something. Look, here's the reason. This was not brought in for the economic stability programme; it was brought in to ensure that the earthquake's economic stability programme does not cause new structural problems. Here's the general reason.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0086par0356	I've read the motive, Mr. Vural, and the motive is clear.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0085par0357	Here it says: "Look, the wounds of our citizens will be tried to heal and the stability of the economy will be maintained without new structural problems." So, not to mix apples and pears, but Mr. Secretary, who made it permanent, I presume.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0087par0358	Thank you, Mr. Vural, it's on the record.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0088par0359	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0087par0388	Against him, Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı. Here you go, Mr. Kalay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0089par0392	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Since the Supreme Planning Board decision on the fees of the employees of the Bank of Provinces has not yet been issued, they have also been victimised by delaying the career expert exam from October 15, 2011 to January 25, 2012. Mr. Secretary, are you going to give this news to the employees of the Bank of Provinces, who are looking forward to your statement today? The rulings issued by the AKP's government on 646, 659 and 666 have been made, and various arrangements for the financial rights of the Finance Ministry staff and public officials have been made. However, additional payments of deputy servants, officers and chiefs serving in İstanbul, Ankara, İzmir, and the Finance Ministry and the IRS have not been increased. The ruling officers' end of the year's share has been removed. Branch managers, managers, assistant managers have been victimized. A new discrimination has been made by the central and rural division of bookkeeping experts and revenue specialists. Your attention, my dear friends, for the first time in the history of the Republic, the head of the IRS and the vice principals throughout Turkey have acted in front of the Ministry of Finance for the first time. Again, the accountants, national real estate controllers, accounting inspectors, national real estate inspectors, accountants and revenue experts are all acting to ensure justice. Mr. Secretary, why is there discrimination among the IRS career occupational staff? How is this equal to equal work? With these arrangements, I'm afraid you've also turned the IRS workers against each other. Are you trying to cause unrest or disrupt business peace? Mr. Secretary, please listen to the cries of the IRS employees. Dear lawmakers, Rule 666, which makes a two-class distinction among officers, such as those below and those at the top, which complicates the system, which is already fragmented in groups, and does not make a meaningful contribution to the wage regime except improvements in the salaries of some officers, rather than adding a new patch to the staff regime. With the arrangement, the rates of around 405,000 employees in the public's salary have been different, but they have increased. For most officers, however, the expectations that were expected unsupervised have become a disappointment. The teacher has been ignored, the academic staff has been ignored. Mr. Secretary, are you aware of how our teachers and teachers live? Teachers, teachers are really disappointed. You also explain that teachers' salaries will increase by inflation. Or did you covet him, too? Why were the cops ignored? If you haven't raised their additional payments, you might as well have solved their degree issues. Police officers who have a master's degree and a master's degree and even a Ph.D. can't get a first degree as a pensioner, but other officers can. Page by page, the decrees have been published. Why didn't you arrange for such an inequality? Why do you go to the police for this injustice? Under the arrangement, additional payments of social security employees have been greatly reduced and bonuses have been removed. There is injustice and inequality for employees of the Turkish Employment Institution, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the General Directorate of Meteorology, the Ministry of Customs and Trade, but I do not have time to explain. What justice did those who designed this decree behind closed doors provide? Mr. Secretary, the Plan and Budget Commission is currently considering the removal of the TOKI (TİKI) from this decision. So, what's the crime of our other agencies? Our other institutions don't matter? Please, step in. I'm suggesting that we transfer the decree under Code 666 to the Plan and Budget Commission immediately to make the necessary corrections. I wish our budgets well, with respect.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0090par0405	Thank you, Mr. Kalayci. Congressmans, the talks in the 12th round are complete. Now, let's move on to the QA section. As you know, the QA is here for 20 minutes; I'm going to take 10 minutes to ask questions, 10 minutes to answer. Congressmans, I remind you again that you are limited to one minute. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0091par0410	No.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0090par0411	No. Dear Light...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0092par0413	Thank you, Mr. President. My first question to the Minister of Finance: Mr. Minister, after the privatisation of the deed, after the privatisation of the Kütahya Sugar Factory Inc on the property of 112,907 square metres of factory land in 2005, was decided to punish the person who made the transaction with a prison sentence of 29/3/2011. Despite the SEC and the court rulings, what's the reason why your Ministry hasn't filed a title cancellation suit so far? When will this case be filed? Two, to Mr. Minister of Environment and Urbanism: Where is the process of the MESS Integrated Recovery Facility CED report set up around Cobanköy, Kütahya Province, Turkey? Will the reaction of the local people be taken into consideration? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0093par0417	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0094par0419	Mr. Finance Minister: At the end of the IMF executive directors' meeting, the confession is made -- as well as in some media organs -- that the future of Turkey's economy has been abandoned to the whims, the whims of the international financial market, the mercy of the non-privileged Eastern goods. Are these words not signs of the recent debt of the economy, where national enterprises are sold to foreigners at the price of nothing, and the real economy is supported by real production and production -- that the market is considered the only way to play with economic instruments such as interest, and that the import economy is imposed as the only way, is to the cheap, the cheap, primordified Eastern goods of the economies, and that the domestic economies are sold at the price for the price of domestic economies, not the new economy is a sign that the recent debt is close to the wall? You didn't take seriously the warnings of the National Movement Party, which has been expressed over the years, you accused them of economic ignorance, and you're going to accuse the IMF directors of ignorance?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0093par0420	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0095par0422	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking our Minister of Environment and Urbanism: County cadastro administrations have been shut down. It takes about four and a half or five hours to arrive from Anamur, my constituency, to Mersin. In this case, both citizens and members of the organization are victims. Do you plan to make a new arrangement regarding this situation? Another question: Do you intend to correct the salary differences between IRS directors, tax inspectors and tax inspectors? Do you plan to correct the difference between Section 666 and other agencies' audit experts in favor of the Finance Ministry? My next question is, the deed and the Kadastro Directorate pay the head of the transaction and provide return capital revenue. However, these revenues are sent to the Rotary Capital Management Directorate in Ankara. The deed and the Kadastro employees are not given return capital. What's this about? Do you intend to correct this application in favor of the employees? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0096par0427	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0097par0429	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Minister of Environment and Urbanism: Mr. Minister, an industrialist in the district of Dilovasa district of Kopeeli has a question which is included in the Alexandria press last week, more than a question. There's a press statement saying that a bureaucrat has gone to him, that this bureaucrat... will be shut down on the grounds of the Haydarpaşa Garı, the Marmaray Project, so that a port in Dilova that belongs to this individual will be expanded by 300 to 400 acres, and that a bureaucrat will fill the sea if necessary. Are you planning on doing a procedure on this bureaucrat? My second question: Again, because of the distorted urbanization of pollution in this region, you know that residents of New Startown have begun to move, and you know it. Some of their rights began to be paid off. As far as I'm concerned, you're not to blame for moving people here through TOKI with a housing project that can be created by TOKI.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0098par0433	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0099par0435	Thank you. I'd like to ask the Minister of Urbanism and Environment: Can't the TOKI buildings be built in line with the culture and architecture of that city? Are you taking on a mission to make our cities ugly? Will that beautiful architectural sensitivity come again, especially in the early years of the republic? The village of the Green Turtles was condemned for coal, and there were 560 households here. Later, the homes of 127 households were built by TOKI, somewhere on coal, with 433 citizens waiting. Although the building permit was granted at the site shown in 1989, the school, mosque, and hospital still do not have the necessary permits. Why is that? The new settlement is said to be carried over the earthquake crack in 1940, 1950. The university and the specialists needed for this...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0100par0440	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0101par0442	Thank you, Mr. President. My first question to the Minister of Environment and Urbanism is: There is serious air pollution in downtown Ankara. The main reason for air pollution that threatens human health is the decline in natural gas use. The rise in gas prices has increased this pollution by turning citizens towards cheap coal. What measures do you have to prevent poor use of coal, to eliminate air pollution? Do you think there's any help in using natural gas for the low-income? My second question to Mr. Finance Minister is that your government is a government of imports. We have a government that imports everything, imports Angus, imports doctors, imports teachers, almost imports politicians. If you can't balance between revenue and expense, between production and consumption, between import and export, we'll continue to talk more about these current deficits. Instead of producing consumption, imports instead of exports, imitations instead of inventions, you have made Turkey a commercial consumer society. Cari is clearly the result of this maturity. My question is: What are you going to do in a concrete way to stop Turkey from becoming a consumer and commercial society?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0102par0446	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0103par0448	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister of Environment and Urbanism: Mr. Erdogan Bayraktar, as a businessman in the construction sector, you take responsibility for the construction of the country. Is that a code of ethics? Again, you had a $100-instalment housing project for low-income people in the election; where are we, where are we waiting all the time? I'd like to ask our Minister of Finance: In the Milliyet news of May 9, 2011, the Minister of Finance said there was no increase in taxes and raises in our day after the election. Did you change your mind after the election, when you received 49 per cent of the vote? Thank you very much.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0104par0453	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0105par0455	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to the Minister of Finance. On 11 November, the tender for Castamonu, Turhal, Kırşehir, Çorum, Yozgat sugar factories was made for $626m as part of the portfolio C. Along with this tender -- it's done by the means of the sale of assets -- the quotas for this tender have to be run for five years. Now I ask the Minister of Finance, where will the quotas be operated? What was the privatisation of the entity by way of sale? If the factory closes, is there a program for the victims of the workers and the removal of the region? Is there a price assessment of the areas owned by the factory? Why were these factories privatised within a package program? Are the co-ops prevented from entering as Ferdi?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0104par0457	Thank you, Mr. Chanar. Mr. Akçay... no. Mr. Halaman... no. Mr. Chancer... no. Mr. Onur... no. Mr. Erdogan... no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr. Aslanoglu... no. Mr. Dinçer... no. Dear Silver... no. Mr. Kaleli, come in.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0106par0468	Sir, my question to the Finance Minister is that budget revenues for 2012 are estimated at $329.8 billion Turkish dollars and tax revenues at $300.9 billion Turkish dollars. The interesting thing is that in the 2011 Central Future Program, the tax revenues for 2012 were estimated at 276 billion. There's a difference of 25 billion. Where does this difference come from, and how will it be collected from? Mr. Secretary, I would like to point out a fact that the Van earthquake revealed: After the Van and Ercish earthquake, not just us, but all the public stood up, the government explained where the earthquake taxes were being spent. As it turns out, the money collected for the earthquake was used everywhere but the earthquake. How much will earthquake taxes be expected in 2012 tax revenues? Will you allow the next earthquake tax to be used without purpose?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0104par0470	Thank you, Mr. Kaleli. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0107par0472	Mr. President, time's up.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0104par0473	Sorry, we're out of time. I'm sorry, I didn't realize. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Flagtar first, please come in, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0108par0476	Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, we're going to take the career expertise exam for our friends who work at the County Bank as soon as possible, so let me make that clear. Recycling in Kütahya is now in the process of reviewing the CED report for the recycling plant. There are opinions and meetings being held from the necessary institutions, institutions. Whatever it is, the CED report will be assessed accordingly. Again, the borough cadastro... has been shut down as the head of the borough cadastro, which Mr. Öz stated. If it's four hours away, I don't know, we'll look into it. It's a long way, of course. We've closed down 45 minutes, one hour away, and the unprocessed district managers, which we took with them because the cadastro administrations are not one-on-one places that serve too many citizens, such as the deed managers, but mostly the units that serve the business owners, but that's a long four-hour distance. I'll examine it in its place, and I'll give you the information in writing or in conversation. At the point of additional wages for return funds, the application of equal wages will now begin as of New Year's Eve. In this regard, in that direction, we will make our next arrangement within this new law. The air pollution in Dilovasi and the bureaucrat there... who's the bureaucrat? If you give us the name of the bureaucrat... it's happening, citizens, some people who aren't bureaucrats are leaving, but that's an important issue, since our congressman has expressed it here, this person is obviously a criminal case. If he tells us and gives us a written document, we'll see who this friend is, we'll prosecute, we'll investigate. Our work continues in New Startown. We have very serious work here in all of Dilovasi. We've been working here since last semester to create a balance of industry and residence. We're going to take them further. Dear friends, of course, TOKI buildings were built in line with the concept of architecture created by the republic. We're uncomfortable with that, too. During this period, we worked with professors from both Turkey and the world, with major architecture offices, architecture concepts, and universities. We have serious work at the point and point of enrichment of both architecture from our history and Selcuklu architecture, Ottoman architecture, classical architecture and local architecture. It's a little bit about the economy. You know, in our country, citizens in need of homes, citizens without money, need housing, housing, but can't afford housing. So we've worked so far on the cost balance, but we need to pay a lot more attention from now on. I thank him for that, of course, for stressing it. Again, air pollution was mentioned in Ankara. In Ankara, air pollution is sometimes increasing due to fog, but overall, air pollution has decreased compared to the years that have passed. In the measurements we've done, we've determined that very clearly. I've already assigned my friends who work in the environment, and we're sharing daily information with the press and the public. Another friend of ours told me I was a builder. I don't do anything like I'm not doing anything with the government right now, so in my youth, I've done it up to 45 years, but right now, not myself... one of them's an architect, works in the state department, one of them's a civil engineer, but what we need is an office building, like a boutique, and in three years, my kids are doing that much work. I don't have the slightest relationship with the government, and I want to express that in particular. He said, "We will give home to the married and the newly married poor for 100 lira." On the other hand, the construction and sale of homes for the poor continues, but we are under the regulations of giving housing to the newly married couple, which we have expressed in the election declaration, and we will do so very soon, hopefully. Thank you so much for your questions, and I'd like to pay my respects again.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0109par0487	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0110par0489	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I've been asked a lot of questions, I've got three and a half minutes. Let me start with question one, a question about the land of the Kütahya Sugar Factory. Dear friends, according to a note delivered to me by the Privatisation Administration, the tender has been included in the promotional document on privatisation of the public stock of the understood mobile Kütahya Sugar Factory Company Anonymous, and is considered in the evaluation work. Later on, the correspondence on the subject of the deed has been conducted, and the latest article from the deed in 2008 states that there has been no case in this article, since there is no interest in the Kütahya Sugar Factory in which it is registered and there is no case to be filed.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0111par0493	Mr. Secretary, despite the YDK reports and court rulings, you can't get out of this courtroom.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0112par0494	There's no such procedure, please sit down.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0111par0495	They're deceiving you, please... You've given me the same answer 10 times, your bureaucrats are deceiving you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0112par0496	Please be seated.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0113par0497	Follow me, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0111par0498	This is a questionable matter, please consider it.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0114par0499	Yes, dear friends, I'll re-examine the matter, but this is a privatisation that was done years ago. The privatisation was finally made necessary attempts, which is what the deed agency decided.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0111par0500	Mr. Secretary, they're giving you that article wrong. I've got that article, it's not called that. But you've been giving the same answer for three years.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0114par0501	Now, Mr. President, of course, for me to answer questions...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0115par0502	Here you go, I'll finish your time, sir, you go ahead.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0114par0503	Now, dear friends, speaking of privatisation of sugar factories, let me continue to answer those questions. As with monopoly privatisation, the privatisation of sugar factories was actually made during previous administrations, and there were talks with the IMF (also) that some factories would be closed prior to privatisation. NGO decisions have been made about the closure. But when we came to power, we lifted the decision to shut down the sugar factories. Of course, sugar production is very efficient in our country. For example, there are some factories that work at 10 percent capacity, some factories that produce costs a lot more than the cost of the world. The purpose of privatisation in sugar, as in other privatisations, is to build a competitive structure, an efficient production model. So, of course, let's increase Turkey's competitiveness in this area and get a chance to supply our citizens with sugar at world prices. Now, of course, when sugar factories are privatized, their land leaves if there's more land than it needs to produce. Look, I'll give you a simple example: from the Malatya Sugar Factory, we've just separated 572 acres of land; we've assigned this land to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the City of Malatya for public service. As a result of these privatisations, our farmers will have no loss. In whatever areas beets are now being produced, after privatisation, there will be an obligation to continue planting in those areas. As a matter of fact, we've arranged for investors to produce in sugar factories for five years under their quotas, so we've taken assurances, additional guarantees, and stopping the production of a sugar factory, shutting it down is not just something that would happen with the investor's own initiative. The Sugar Board, of course, oversees and oversees all this activity here, and in that sense, of course, the necessary decisions will be made again. Of course there are examples of privatisation of the world's sugar industry. Why are we doing this in groups and portfolios in Turkey? See, this method has been used in recent privatisations in Hungary, Poland, Mexico. It is not just a method in Turkey. Again, a number of issues have been brought up regarding the victims of the locals. Since every sugar factory in our country is geographically determined to provide beets, the production of raw materials and beet producers of sugar factories has been secured in this sense. On the other hand, the legal rights of employees working in factories are also reserved, and the conditions for the arrangements are still in place. Will you give me an extension, Mr. President?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0116par0512	I did, sir, yes.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0114par0513	I'll answer these other questions in writing.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit03spe0116par0514	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This is how the talks in the 12th round are completed. Now, I'm going to have you read separately and vote on the parting of budgets in the 12th round, respectively. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism will be transferred to the central management budget in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 27 EVIL AND GOVERNMENT CENTER 1. ▪ Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 50,772,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 363.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.250,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 394,188,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Environmental Protection Services 288,817,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 193,057,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 367,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 929,814,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism was adopted in 2012 as part of the central management budget. I would like to submit to your votes that the Department of Public Works and the Ministry of Housing will take part in the final account of central management in 2010: Those who don't... Sustained. (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 1,450,687,495.50 - Budget Expenses : 1,259,618,455.96 - Canceled allowance: 90,389.121.05 - Refundance for the following year: 100,679,918.49 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Public Works and Housing has been adopted into parts of the central management account in 2010. I submit to your votes that the deed and the Kadastro General Directorate take part in the central management budget in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 14.81 - THE TAPU AND THE KADISTRO GENIFY 1. (Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2012) [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 644,154,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 349.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 644,503,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Deputies of the central management budget were adopted in 2012. I'd like to submit to your votes to the section of the central management account for 2010, the deed and the Kadastro General Directorate: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. (Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2010) (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 513,639,151,84 - Budget Expenses 471.085.469.59 - Funds Expenses: 2.293,076,71 - Canceled allowance: 44,741,363,12 - Refundance for the following year: 105,395,84 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. Departures of the central management account of 2010 were adopted. I submit to your votes that the President of the Special Environment Protection Agency in 2010 will be transferred to the section of the central management final account: Those who don't... Sustained. THE PRESIDENT OF PRIVATE CONTROL (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 39,003,951,00 - Budget Expenses: 26.076,815,81 - Canceled allowance: 12.927.135,19 (A) Those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Budget estimate: 32.048,000.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 30,865,440,65 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The head of the Special Environment Protection Agency was adopted in 2010 as part of the final account of the central administration. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Finance will take part in the central management budget in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 1. ▪ Finance Ministry Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 51,990,449.101 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 88,591.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 2.350.464,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 3.257,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 34,140.835,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 88.573.596.101 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Finance was adopted in 2012 as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the Central Administration account of 2010 will be transferred to its chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ Finance Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 64,357,587,308,42 - Budget Expenses 64,154,681,806,84 - Canceled allowance: 202.905.501.58 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of 2010 were adopted. I'd like to submit to your votes that the chairman of the IRS will be transferred to the central management budget in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 12:76 P.M. POSSIBILITY 1. ▪ Central Management Budget for 2012, chairman of the IRS [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 1,888,656,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,200,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 1,889,856,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairman of the IRS was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. I'd like to submit to your votes that the central management account of 2010 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ Central Management Final Account for 2010 President of the IRS (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 1.680.614.341.00 - Budget Expenses : 1,637,612,704,02 - Canceled allowance: 43,001,636,98 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. In 2010, parts of the central administration's final account were adopted. I'd like to submit to your votes for the transfer of the Central Management budget for 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 42.06 (KAMU IHHALE BUILDING) 1. ▪ Public tenders institution 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 18,786.800 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 70,213,200 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 89,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The public tender was adopted in 2012 as part of the central management budget. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 60,391.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 28.609,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 89,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Government account of 2010 will be transferred to its chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 76,000,000.00 - Budget Expenses 59,910,461.85 - Canceled allowance: 16,089,538.15 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Budget estimate: 72,000,000.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 78,184.303.10 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of 2010 have been adopted. President of the Privatisation Administration for 2012, I submit to your votes that the central management budget for 2012... Those who don't... Sustained. 40.35...... the prime minister of specialization. 1. ▪ Privatisation Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 9.736,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 10,893,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 20,629000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The President of the Privatisation Administration was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 439.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 20,189,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Capital Profits 1,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 20,629000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. President of the Privatisation Administration in 2010, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration will be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 18,340.510.00 - Budget Expenses: 16,805,480,88 - Canceled allowance : 1.535.029,12 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Budget estimate: 17.416,000.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 16,652.615,43 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The President of the Privatisation Administration of 2010 has been accepted into parts of the final account of central management. Thus, the EPA's central management budget of 2012 and the Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate of the Ministry of Finance, the Chairman of the Finance Ministry's Finance Administration and the Central Management Accounts of 2010 through the Central Administration budgets of 2012 of the President of the Public Relations Administration, and the final accounts of the Ministry of Public Environment and Housing and the Office of Special Environment Protection in 2010. I wish them well. Congressmans, I'm gonna take a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0116par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law bill in 2012 on the Central Management Act in 2010, where we left off. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. Members of parliament, with the completion of talks in the 12th round, talks have been completed on Article 2 of Article 2 concerning the Central Management Budget Bill 2012 and on the budgets of the ministry and the relevant pennies, which include Article 1 of the 2010 Central Management Computation Act, and on financing. Now, in accordance with the programme, we will discuss the provisions of the Central Management Budget Law for 2012 and the Final Accounting Law for 2010, respectively. Now, I'm going to re-read the first article on the cost budget of the Central Management Budget Act of 2012, and then I'm going to put it to your votes. PRODUCTION OF THE SECURITY OF 2012 Expenses, Arrives, Financing and Balance MADDE 1 - (1) Added to Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 10/12/2003, as shown in the tablet marked "A" (a); A) (I) Turkish Lira, 344,512,858,921 to public administrations under the general budget on the ruler, B) 38,944,870.000 Turkish liras for special budgetary administrations on table number III C) (III) editor-in-chief and auditory institutions on the ruler have been granted 2,027,897,000 Turkish liras. I submit the first article to your votes, along with the ruler, which was previously approved: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm rereading Article 2 of the income budget: MADDE 2 - (1) Influences: In accordance with the Law (B), it is included in the Law No. 5018; A) (I) The income of the general budget on the ruler is 322,884.924,000 Turkish liras, B) (II) private budgetary administrations' revenues are 6,090,992.350 Turkish liras, a total of 39,469,304,000 Turkish liras, including 33,378,311,650 Turkish liras, and a total of 39,469,304,000 Turkish liras. C) (III) The income of regulator and auditory institutions on the ruler is 2,027,897,000 Turkish liras, is estimated to be. The net financing of special budgetary administrations on the table number 5018 (II) is estimated to be 68,600,000 Turkish liras, as shown on the table marked "F" (F). Now, I'm going to read the chapters of the ruler, which is bound to the 2nd article, and I'm going to put them to your separate votes. C E T V E L THE CODE OPENING COMES TO THE BUILDING OF 2012 [[TL]] 01 Tax revenues 300,995,224,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 9.301.354,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 1,183,383,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 23.838.870.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Capital Profits 11.465.462,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Collection 269.395,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. COMPANY BUILDING 347,053,688,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Red and Returns ( - ) 24.168.764,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. NET BUILDING 322,884.924,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Now, I submit the 2nd article to your votes along with the accepted additive: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 3 - (1) The difference between the sum of the first article (a) of the 1st article of this Law (a) and the sum of estimated revenues on the first part of Article 2 (a). Now, Batman MP Ayla Akat will speak on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ancestor. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0117par0054	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on Article 3 of the Central Management Budget Act of 2012. We're talking about the economy, of course, one of the two things that are essential for the state to operate an active and active work with all of its organs, but the other element of the work that is going to make the economy work is the staff, and the main thing that will enable both the staff and the budget that is separated to be active and active is that there is a law that can be used. We talked about a lot of budget pencils here. Almost all ministries have had very effective talks on budget pencils. Ideas and statements have also been made to contribute to the content of many studies. We hope that political power will take advantage of these ideas and statements, but at the point of building the law, it's the legislature that's responsible. Today, the basic requirement for many ministries to conduct an effective study of a topic that enters the working area depends on the possibility of a law. Look, we, the legislature, unfortunately, don't take a lot of public expectations onto the agenda. I was at Batman yesterday. In the province, even if Turkey does not reflect public opinion -- which has been a great effort by political power -- don't reflect themselves, don't take out the BDP people -- 25 to 30,000 people have gathered and we are here. He said, "We are here." The press didn't say a word about it. That's our problem. Why? Because what's happening in the region, what the Kurds are going through, is only reflected in the public's conflict-axised Turkey. If this legislature is going to side with the solution to the problem and create the law, first of all, it has to take relevant measures to avoid the reflection of the conflict-axis public. Besides, there are basic conditions for its reflection outside the field of conflict. What's this? It's political. Today all politics has been disabled, all political channels have been shut down. Today, the mayor of Batman is under arrest for operations launched on April 14, 2009; he received 60 per cent and more votes. Batman's mayor has begun his post, and has been taken into custody and arrested a week after our congress. Other than that, our members of parliament, other than that, our members of the State General Assembly, were taken into custody and arrested. However, not because of their activities, which are reflected in that public opinion -- the conflict is reflected in -- the Kurdish problem -- but because they express their opinion, these friends are being taken into custody and arrested. We're the legislature, and if there are obstacles to people using freedom of opinion, which is a constitutional right, it's the duty of the legislature to change their sublaw norms, to be able to put their hands under the table. Article 220 of the Turkish Penal Code has articles 6, 7, 8, which says: "You may not be members of the organization, but if you act by instruction, you will be punished as a member of the organization. We have friends who are lawyers in this hall. There are fundamental elements to being a member of the organization, you go, you get military, you get political training, but just because it explains what a person in legal politics thinks -- I want education in the main language in this. You can enter all activities from holding the gender quota to defending it, against the Ilisu Dam -- you can only become the target of the 220/6th substance because you express them. In the same way, Article 8 of the Anti-Terror Law is also linked to the decision of this Anti-Terror Law on propaganda. It says there: "The organization, the propaganda of the terrorist organization, is the title of the arrangement there. But in 220, it says: ▪ Is there such a thing as propaganda for the purpose of the organization? My goals are the same at this point as the organization's. I'm telling you, I want to study in the native language, today the PKK wants to study in the native language, and our goal is the same. Am I the organization's propaganda? It's so clear, there's so many weird convictions within the Turkish Penal Code. So we're going to work if we want to earn this budget, if we want to earn it. We will change the sub-law norms in the Turkish Penal Code, which are guaranteed constitutionally, freedom of speech, freedom of organisation, freedom of press, the right to hold a meeting, the right to march, the right to demonstrations, so that they can find life. Today, there are at least 50,000, 60,000 elected MPs, eight of them in prison. And when we look at any of these people's activities, it's very clear -- we're expressing for our MPs -- just because they've expressed their opinion, Mr. Hatip Dicle has been sentenced to ten months in prison for one sentence, and his position has been reduced. Sentences, I mean. (*) In this chapter, some words were expressed by the Minister in a non-English language. The current legal provisions do not only stand where they are, they do not only cause people to be detained and arrested; they also prevent them from exercising civilized political rights. If we're going to have a practice that deserves our budget, we're going to have to take these laws, which are the first task of the legislature. It was changed in 2005-2006; the Turkish Penal Code, Penal Code, and changes were made in TMK again. Look, today we're going to deal with the Constitution of September 12th of the political government. We're hearing the statements. A constitutional amendment package has been prepared over this and we're going to the public's agenda with a new constitution request for at least two elections. Why? It's a product of a coup, in case it contains antidemocratic provisions. Dear friends, even in that coup, in the Constitution, freedom of speech is recognised, freedom of organization is recognised, but the obstacles to that are in the sub-law norms, and these norms were issued by AKP power; 2005, in 2006. In this courtroom, we have friends who are lawyers, friends who are lawyers on that commission. Today, our base, the society of Turkey, is questioning this whole thing. How does a citizen who walks down the street become a member of an organization? I'll tell you what it's like: you're watching TV at night, a BDP politician, and tomorrow we're going to make a press statement about the arrest of our mayor in this square. One minute, our citizens who attended the press release are being detained for their participation in the organization's cause, for their propaganda purposes, and if they're not arrested, they're being punished later. A Turkey that will continue to live with these substances is a Turkey that will not be able to achieve social peace; let's make it very clear. Today, after operations on April 14, 2009, we are a political party with nearly 4,000 or so members under arrest. Think of any political party, not 4,000 or so, not 400, but 40 or four political positions, political movements topple. Today, the politics that our party views as a mission is a policy that has taken over since 1991, which has failed to destroy its physical existence, let alone by party closures, detentions, arrests, and in the 90 percentile years. Politics for us has failed, but politics has survived, so you have to see that. You said: "The success of local government in 2009." That's right. We had 50 municipalities, God gave us no share, and we went up to 100. The first target is the BDP belle, the local government office. Our entire staff has been taken into custody, they're still under arrest, they haven't made a single statement. Why? It's because they want to defend in the native language. For two and a half years, people have been in prison, not a word of defense. In fact, illegal evidence is being read to them right now, and they haven't even been testified. Even IDs were made almost in their gyrology. The continuing operation in 2009 continues in 2011, with valuable friends targeting our political academys. Why? I guess these strategists thought, consultants thought, "What if we arrested 4,000 or so people, over 10,000 detentions, how come this political movement is still standing, this political party is still standing?" So they're training their own staff in some way, and they're in charge. Then the second target is the political academy. Let's just say, valuable lawmakers, that as much as any political party, we need a staff to bring our own politics to society, to carry the expectations of society to us, and they will continue to resist, not shut up, not stop, with operations against our political academys. These operations won't do any good. Just as he didn't get out of operations in 2009, he won't get out of operations in 2011. But at this point, the legislature must think; will we remove the barriers to freedom of expression in Turkey? Will we remove the obstacles to freedom of organization? Will we remove the obstacles to freedom of the press? Or -- I gave you some numbers from this bench last week -- are we going to stay in the first country in the world with the most terrorists? We can't make social peace by making everyone a terrorist, dear friends. We have to keep the political channels open, we have to give everyone the right to do politics, we have to respect all ideas. I'm not saying tolerance, we have to be respectful. No one needs another's tolerance, but we have to respect it. It's all about talking, listening. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0118par0070	Thank you, Mr. Ancestor. Manisa MP Erkan Akçay on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0119par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute your honorable committee. At the end of my talk this morning, since the budget deficit has been reduced over nine years, I have said that the most important factors in the reduction of budget deficits are the value-appropriation tax in imports and indirect tax revenues from consumption, and the most important role of revenues reflected in the banking system and tax revenues from citizens' debt to banks. We also expressed that selling cari open and public enterprises is a much bigger problem than the budget deficit, when domestic production is reduced and import dependency becomes chronic. In essence, dear friends, the government is trying to equate the tax with the increase in imports, the excessive debt of citizens to banks, and the indirect tax on consumers. When we include privatisation revenues from public property sales, tax peace, property peace, debt restructuring laws, and non-permanence revenues, we can easily decide on the budget: the income structure of the budget is unhealthy and corrupt. The income flexibility of the budget is getting smaller and narrower. As this tax structure corrupts the system, tax justice and revenue distribution are also deteriorating, and the balance of the economy is also severely damaged. Although tax collections from imports were high for 2011, the target rose above the target by 15 per cent, even though the target was high estimate. The government can no longer control imports. Taxes from imports also increase by 12 per cent in the 2012 budget. This increase is high, and it shows that the government also predicted that the increase in imports will continue in 2012 without control. Tax revenues are cut from 85.71 per cent to 84.18 per cent in 2012. This means a reduction of 1.5 points, and this reduction is important, dear friends. This shows that the budget is turning to tax-free revenues. It also shows that, given the prospect of growth and inflation, the government is not determined and unwilling to fight informality. As we look at the figures in 2011, the revenues from debt configuration have often remained in the vicinity of the income tax, while all taxes are above the target. What does that tell us about staying in the vicinity of the target? It shows that there is a serious problem with employment and the earnings of the taxpayers. Dear lawmakers, the government talks about growth creating a high amount of employment, and 4,200,000 new jobs have been created since 2007. If employment has been created in so much time, shouldn't this increase in employment be reflected as a revenue tax freeze increase? We don't see this reflection, this increase, this increase in employment, the increase in income tax cuts that need to be achieved. Dear friends, when you reduce these unemployment figures, you don't even include the unemployment figures of students who receive course fees in vocational courses. Now, then we have to ask: if employment has increased, where is the cat, if this is what Nasreddin Hoxha calls it? If this is the cat, where is the liver? The 2012 budget also reduces the tax collection of institutions based on declarations. Does the government think companies will earn less in 2012? Again, due to the 2012 budget's tax increase in mobile phones -- previously raised from $40 to $100 -- a 47 per cent special consumption tax increase is expected to increase, and 27 per cent of cigarette and alcoholic beverages are expected to increase. Of course, can these income increases be achieved? Dear friends who can't be provided, because these increases -- as I said in my speech in the morning -- are contrary to the facts of life and the nature of things. With these increases, you've increased trafficking, and although we've been serious about it, unfortunately, the government is not sensitive about it. Privatisation revenues for 2011 are below target. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to now refer some of my views to your esteemed committee, referring to some of Mr. Finance Minister's assessments of the latest budget presentation. In the budget presentation, the government said that Turkey's economy differs in a positive direction from many countries, with its improved public financing balances and job-making growth, and in this dissolution it plays a major role in the high-term mid-term programme and the sound banking sector. For one thing, these medium-term programs are no longer credible. These medium-term programs are not the same as their goals. It's a program that hasn't been announced in time, and it doesn't hold any goals, and it's impossible to take seriously. The foundation of strong banking is based on measures taken during the 57th Government, where the National Movement Party is a government partner. So if the banks don't sink today, the measures taken by the government before you have a very big role to play. Growth is more based on imports, private sectors and debt. The role of the real sector's production increases in growth is extremely small. Due to increased debt supply, failure to prevent current deficits, banks having difficulty finding foreign loans, international organisations have also begun to lower our country's growth projections. As a matter of fact, the BDDK first increased the credit card payment limits; it looked, no, it limited the cash withdrawal. Now he's trying to save the country from a major crisis by limiting the limits. Thus, the current government has just begun to consider what we said three years ago as the National Movement Party. The consumption-based growth from the future income of the citizen exploded like a balloon due to the increasing burden of debt. Now for the citizen, it's time to pay the debt, not the debt. As the consumption trend decreases, there will also be a reduction in tax collection. The government will try to close the tax loss of this reduction either by putting in new taxes or by increasing the current tax rates. As a result of an increase in salaries as much as the inflation target launched during the AKP administrations, the pensioners and pensioners were crushed to inflation, which allowed inflation to be contained, but in 2011, this policy went bankrupt, inflation began to rise again towards the double house. As a result of the policies set in 2001, inflation fell until 2007 and increased again. With these thoughts, dear lawmakers, I pay tribute to your honorable committee.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0120par0090	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Aydın Aghan Ayadın.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0121par0092	It's in his name, too, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0120par0093	Here you are, Mr. Aya morning. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time has been 15 minutes, and in the name of your own...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0122par0096	Mr. President, the budget of 2012, unfortunately, has been a new indicator of how careless the government is with the law. This budget is the 10th budget of the AKP governments, prepared in accordance with the new public financial management understanding. I'm in the 5th budget of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I've been watching budget talks on TV, press, for about twenty-five years. Unfortunately, the lowest-profile budget is this budget. The budget talks usually include all members of the government, where the government is seen behind me on the left-hand side of the government, and in the ranks of the ruling party are all ruling lawmakers, the ruling lawmakers start preparing for the budget before a month and selects the best speakers from all lawmakers and prepares. The budget was such a budget that between the ruling party MPs and the opposition party's parliamentary party there would be a verbal duel, a thrill; the ruling party would give people hope with its budgets, and the opposition parties would criticize the ruling party's budgets, but unfortunately there is no excitement or hope in the ruling party that we are currently discussing. I'm sure the people who watch us at the head of the TV can't do anything with this budget, and I'm sure they're not thrilled. The Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 5018, which was adopted in December 2003 to determine the new understanding of public financial governance in the AKP administration, envisions a special process and calendar under public financial management. Unfortunately, however, the AKP has continued to repeat what it does every year. Because the Central Timed Programme 5018 was published in the Official Gazette on October 13, 2011, a hundred and thirty-five days after the time appointed by Law No. 5018, and the budget call and budget preparation guide were published in the daily newspaper. With this practice, his government did not comply with the Law. And if you, as a government, do not obey the laws you have made, how will our people abide by the laws you have made? How can you expect them to comply? That's a hell of a contradiction. Consider the 2012 Central Future Programme, which is alleged to have been set up with realistic goals, but has nothing to do with the truth. I just want to give two examples of the so-called realistic targets on paper. The mid-term programme, released in 2011, estimated 5.3 per cent of TÜFE, was also revised at 7.8 per cent in the 2012 Central Time Program. The president of the Central Bank said he expects the end of the year inflation to take place at 8.3 per cent, but the 2011 inflation was 9.5 per cent as of November, and 11 per cent inflation was 9.8 per cent. The deviation must have been 50%. The deviations are five percent and ten percent, but I see that the AKP's targets are only 50 percent different. The mid-term programme in 2011 indicated that the current account deficit would be 42.2 billion dollars per year, while the same rate reached $65 billion in open January-source time and 78.6 billion in twelve months. As a matter of fact, international credit rating agencies are converting Turkey's credit rating view from positive to stable, precisely due to the fact that -- so-called -- the current open and accurate goals of inflation have been overcome. The most fragile part of Turkey's economy is still high-performance deficits. We're talking about a current account deficit of 10 per cent of national income. It's the wrong interest and currency policies that create it. Moreover, what makes the current open risk a complete threat to Turkey's economy is that the quality of financing of the current deficit has dropped. At a record level, the current is financed with a large amount of short-term capital intake, or hot money. Turkey's savings volume is getting smaller. Unfortunately, in 2011, it was only reduced to 13.3, when savings in Turkey had a disposable rate of 18.6 per cent in 2002. Savings necessary for the healthy and permanent growth of our developing country melt during the AKP period. The growth rate during the AKP administrations is equal to the growth average of Turkey's economy. The growth rate was 4.95 percent during that highly boasted 2003-2010 period. Even during the 1990s coalition governments, where political instability took place, the average growth rate was 4%. Yes, Turkey has been witnessing rapid growth recently, but the same Turkey has been passing over us in 2009, as if the crisis, which is said to have been reduced above the averages of developing countries, has been reported to be tangent. The unemployment rate, which was taken over 10.3 per cent in 2002 and climbed 14 per cent during the ten-year period of power, has finally been reduced to that amount, with the rate announced today. The AKP government, which implements a program that does not create jobs, I think it expects us to believe that this high unemployment is the fate of our nation. The AKP, who view unemployment as an appreciation, doesn't feel the need to take too many steps on this issue, as I see it. On the other hand, those who want to work cannot find work, while those who are employed cannot take advantage of their assurances. The AKP's government has made its use and transfer to other public expenditures normal while tightening the conditions for the unemployment fund, placing unemployed citizens in distress. Unregistered employment is also one of the key elements of the long-term informal economic problem in our country. As shown in the results of the off-the-book economy, an unregistered employment state deprives an important income. As a matter of fact, in our country, the revenues of the social security system are far below the European countries. The more important result of off-the-book employment is that employees have to work under low wages, unsecured and unsanitary conditions. Unregistered employment rate is 2 per cent in the UK, 6 per cent in Germany, 14 per cent in Poland, 21 per cent in Romania, 30 per cent in Bulgaria, 44 per cent in Turkey. Unfortunately, the problem of unregistered employment stands before us as such a serious problem in our country, which boasts that it is the world's 16th and 6th largest economy of Europe. In particular, it is not a prophecy that the global economic crisis and the reflection of this crisis will show the biggest impact of the crisis in employment, and that the cost of the registered work will increase unemployment. Another problem that is growing and growing in our country, and I'm afraid that it can't be handled at this rate, is the chaos of employment. This problem is not structural, it is entirely a choice of the AKP government. On the one hand, the helpless 4/B (b) people with no job guarantees, on the other hand, the 4/C (c) people whose hands are condemned to working against basic human rights, where permits such as marriage, sickness, birth, death, transfers, promotions, rights are restricted. We see that these jobs are becoming more and more common in the public. I present to the great House how appropriate this is for the social state, the state of law, and the high democratic standards. The debt of an unresolved country is also increasing. Yes, our debt rate is dropping, but the increase in our debt supply must not be ignored. As of 2002, the public debt supply, which was 257 billion, increased to 519.6 billion Turkish dollars as of the second quarter of 2011. I'm talking about an increase in debt by more than 100 per cent during the nine-year AKP ruling period. Moreover, at this time billions of dollars have been raised from the largest privatisations in the history of the Republic, with nearly 50 billion revenues and financial pardons removed from it. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to share my opinion on some 2012 budget sizes. For 2012, budget revenues were estimated at $329.8 billion Turkish liras and tax revenues at $300.9 billion Turkish liras. The interesting thing is that in the 2011 mid-term programme, tax revenues for 2012 are estimated at 276 billion. So with the government's 2012 budget, we're looking at a 25 billion-dollar tax increase. Taxes will continue in the coming period, and the budget will signal it. When we look at the composition of tax revenues, we see that over the revenue of 86.7 billion, 7 billion will be taken over the wealth, and the remaining 207 billion will be taken over the expense. The result of the off-the-book economy, unfortunately, also reveals how problematic our tax system is. Now, I'm asking you, which is true: if there's a need for public service, why is the officer restricted, or why is there a contract staff if there's no need? Which one is it? You'll have to decide as soon as possible. On the other hand, the cost of the last gas has increased by 39 percent. So Turkey began to charge 39 per cent more for natural gas. Because prices were under pressure due to the June 12th elections, BOTAS did not reflect this increase to the final consumer, but in the meantime began to increase the do-business and the do-and-work plants over a raise, and no one knew. Conclusion: Parliament TV screens blacked out. Why are the screens of parliament's TV screens blacked out? Because don't let the Turkish people watch the practices of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and don't let anyone know what's going on here. If you believe what you're doing is in favor of the Turkish people, in favor of our people, why are you shutting down the House, the public can't watch our work? This is extremely wrong. All activities from Turkey's Grand National Assembly television must be kept open to our people's monitoring. If you keep turning off these TVs, then there are some issues that you want to kidnap from the Turkish people. You wish your practices would not be seen by our people. Therefore, Parliament TV has to be fully opened at once. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0123par0119	Thank you, Mr. Ayadun. In the name of the person, Mr. Bursa MP Bedrettin Yıldırım. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Lightning. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0124par0124	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, when I begin my words, I salute you all. I'm going to say a few sentences on Article 3 of the 2012 Central Management Budget Act, but I'd like to inform you about something else. It is based on the provision of sustainable economic growth, continued employment growth, increasing domestic savings and reducing the current deficit and reducing inflation rate to the required levels and adhered to fiscal discipline among the goals in the 2012 Year Programme, which will be based on investments. In this scope, the financing needs of the central management budget will be met at the most affordable cost in the medium and long term, considering the cost level set, with the domestic and external market conditions. All institutions and institutions of the state will also shape their work within that scope. The best example of this is that I would like to inform you about agricultural loan co-ops, which are particularly economically disadvantaged, especially in the development of rural areas, which have played an important role in boosting the prosperity level of this part, with a hundred and forty-eight years of experience in Turkish agriculture, with knowledge-saving experience. 16 regional units, 1 central union, 1,700 units of cooperatives and 1.1 million farmers. With 30 companies, 7,000 employees, and a fertilizer company covering about 30 per cent of the 5 million tonnes of fertilizer consumed in Turkey, Turkey has made great efforts to become the lifeline of our farmers in Turkey.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0125par0127	Fertilizer prices are down?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0126par0128	Fertilizer prices have peaked.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0124par0129	In the 2000s, the loan volume of this company, which was proposed to sink and purge by World Bank experts, reached 3 quadrillion 600 billion by 2012, has reached 98 per cent of the return of the money, and interest rates have been reduced to 5 per cent by zero with the support of our government. In particular, 1,500 agricultural engineers and farmers in all parts of Turkey have signed important services in areas such as fertilizer, seeds, bait, machinery and equipment, agricultural medicine, insurance. Congressmans, agricultural loan co-ops have been at the farmer's side in a difficult time. The biggest obstacle in private banks' work for our farmers has been agricultural loan co-ops. With the support of the EC PARTY governments in many parts of Turkey today, it has turned our farmers' support into loans, with all the best conditions and no bail, with the same and cash.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0127par0131	Say "Repentance" and "Haji," and "Hadji."
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0128par0132	How much does the General Manager get paid?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0124par0133	Dear lawmakers, once again, the agricultural loan co-ops from our farmers...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0129par0134	Mr. General Manager, destroy the WTF and the VAT.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0128par0135	Farm credit screwed up the farmer.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0124par0136	...has made a serious contribution by judging their products with their products. I'd like to give you a few numbers: the loan he gave farmers in 2002 was just $280 million. Today, only the Izmir region, Tekirdağ region, Antalya and Balıkesir region, each one of which has passed over 500 trillion to our farmers. I've just said, it's a total loan of 3.5 quadrillion. Dear lawmakers, it is also remarkable that the volume of agriculture loan co-ops has reached with loans to the Turkish farmer. Today, the volume of the transaction has reached 7.5 billion, and its active size has reached 12 billion. Fertilizer factories are also the most important company of agricultural loans. The stock price of this company was only 20 million in 2000. Today, the stock market value of this company has reached 1.5 billion, which has resulted in a great deal of effort from this company and its employees.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0128par0138	The history teacher brought the history teacher there. There's agricultural engineers' sweat in there.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0124par0139	Our esteemed deputies, in Turkey...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0130par0141	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0124par0142	I thank you, I salute everyone.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0130par0144	Congressmans, we're now moving on to the QA section. Ten minutes to go, five minutes to the questions. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0131par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in many of our provinces in Anatolia, in particular, the migration to major cities is increasing every year due to unemployment. Is this taken into consideration in the allocation of funds to the provinces in the 2012 budget? What measures have been taken to resolve this important problem of migratory provinces? My second question is, is it possible for agricultural engineers and veterinary physicians, who have been promised employment under the TARGEL Project to be hired before the 2012 KPSS exam? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0132par0151	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0133par0153	Mr. President, thank you. Will the status of court controllers, national real estate controllers, accountants, national real estate inspectors, accountants, and revenue specialists who have been victimised by the provisions 659 and 666? And how will the areas left unsupervised by their unemployment be audited from now on? My second question: most of the products you import are possible to produce in our country. Do you plan to encourage production to increase employment and reduce the current deficit by reducing imports? Do you have any concrete measures in the 2012 Program to encourage production?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0134par0156	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0135par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. The municipalities with less than 2,000 populations were ordered to be closed by the law issued earlier. How do you feel about these municipalities that have been temporarily shut down? Like all over the country, small-scale municipalities in the province of Tokat have enormous financial difficulties. Do you plan to transfer financial aid or resources to improve the status of these municipalities, or do you intend to bring in a new system, a new barem for increasing their share? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0136par0162	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0137par0164	Mr. Secretary, the Home Office has not been a mother to the chiefs, has not been a father to them, has left them orphans, is looking for a port. Will you take care of them? Somehow, the mayor's salary goes to a BUG-KUR bonus. The Mukhtars are shouting. Our minister of finances will take care of us. Will you be their mother father as Minister of Finance to pay them at least as much as the minimum wage?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0136par0166	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0138par0168	Thank you, Mr. President. Istanbul 2010 European Capital of Culture Agency was dissolved on 30 June 2011, and its activities were terminated. However, 1 and 1.5 cents worth of taxes are still being paid for the gas and engine, which are valid to finance the agency's expenditures in July 2008 -- for the gas and motor on the table A of the special consumption tax number one. When do you plan to remove these taxes? Do you find it correct that these tax collections are still being collected? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0139par0171	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0140par0173	Mr. Secretary, do you think that for those of you who are experts in internal income examinations in the country office, the IRS should be given the 3600 additional indicators given to the central staff in accordance with Article 666 of the Law? We see that the 3600 additional indicators are not given to the in-house income specialist who works at the centre, but they are given to experts in the other ministries in the countryside. Do you intend to remove the central-level division between IRS employees? Do you have any interest in whether their additional fees are counted to pensions? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0141par0176	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Here you go, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0142par0178	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me start with question one right now. Of course, we're transferring extra resources, especially within the framework of projects aimed at reducing regional development differences, in our cities where unemployment is relatively high, so the level of economic activity is relatively low. With both the GAP project, an additional source is earmarked for the Southeastern Anatolian region, the Eastern Anatolian region, the KOP (KOP) and the region, of course, and again, the DOKAP and the Black Sea region (DAP). But beyond that, of course, the budget that we're making, in fact, is a budget that has a strong social side. In particular, here, to solve other problems, especially unemployment, we transfer a very serious amount of resources to education and other areas. So we're giving a huge amount of resources to our relatively low level of economic activity, to our underdeveloped provinces, especially education, infrastructure, in terms of creating an equal opportunity. In that sense, these funds will likely be seen higher. Second, will the status of our accountants, our national real estate controllers be restored? Dear friends, the arrangement here is an arrangement for the more efficient, efficient work of agencies in the Treasury. They're certainly not being stripped of their control authority. On the contrary, it has been stated, very clearly, that these resources will continue to be used for inspection. These are all arrangements for the more efficient work of our headquarters, but in regulations, all of these matters will be redesigned, of course, in a good way. The imported products are also produced in Turkey. Is there anything being done to limit imports, to produce more products in Turkey? Dear friends, in 2009, in the new incentive system, especially in sectors with high foreign trade deficits, there have been additional, tax or bonus support in other matters, and our Ministry of Economics and, of course, the Council of Economic Co-ordination are working on new incentives in this framework. It can be produced especially in Turkey, but right now we're going to give a really strong support for products that are heavily imported, including the corporate tax, some income tax, or other incentives. In particular, in this input supply strategy, we've completed sectoral work. Now, not only can we produce more in the industry, but in the product field, what we can produce more in Turkey. What incentives can be given for the production of products not produced in Turkey? For example, let's say we can't encourage iron steel by international agreements, but can the energy used in this be evaluated in a different way? We've been working on these, and we've been working on that. Other than that, small municipalities, small-scale municipalities, if you remember, they had a decision to shut down municipalities whose population was less than 2,000, but then, of course, this decision was not implemented, and I know firsthand, because many mayors are either coming to me, or they're coming to me directly, and they're telling me. In fact, in many municipalities, the population has dropped so low that, for example, we recently had a mayor in a town with a population of 110 people. I really feel the troubles firsthand. So the decision to shut them down was the right decision, my personal opinion, I think it was the right decision. Services can be taken there better than other channels, but what can be done with its present condition? Now there's an equivalence grant, which we handed over to the County Bank as the Treasury Department, but of course that's limited. We've taken steps to get the extra staff of these municipalities -- look, I don't mean the norm staff -- to give the surplus workers to the public, for example, and to at least prevent a large percentage of the revenues sent to them from going to the salary, and we've had a lot of municipalities to take advantage of that. I believe that this will improve the situation because many of our small municipalities have turned into a payroll office, which means they've turned into an employment office. He needs to serve, but to change that, we've made a very important arrangement in Law 6111, which I hope will contribute. What else can be done? If there is to be a new regulation of the local government, can there be a step toward small municipalities? Of course, it's a matter of the discretion of our House. About the Mukhtars...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0143par0188	Mr. Secretary, will the municipalities close?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0142par0189	Dear friends, we need a new arrangement for him. Now, about the chiefs...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0144par0191	Will the municipalities close as they are, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0142par0192	First, if you'll excuse me, let me remind you that in 2002, our mayors were getting $97, and now they're getting $384. Now...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0145par0194	Mr. Secretary, how much is the BUG-KUR bonus? What's the BUG-KUR bonus?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0142par0195	Okay. Look, dear friends, the lowest...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0146par0196	Mr. Secretary, your time is up.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0145par0197	Mr. Secretary, you're not telling me the BUG-KUR bonus.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0147par0198	The Mukhtars are important, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0148par0199	But let me finish this, Mr. President, if I may.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0149par0200	We don't give extensions, you know, in our work. You can answer in writing. Thank you. Negotiations on Article 3 are adjourned. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. PARTS of the Expension Chart are organized in the form of functions in line with the analytical budget classification. Functions are divided into subfunctions at first, second, third and fourth levels. (2) It is part of the Law and other laws concerning expenses; A) "Episode and Episode," the first level of functional classification, B) The term "cut," the second level of functional classification, c) "Madde" is the third level of functional classification, The term "Tertip" is the first two levels of economic classification with all levels of institutional, functional and financial code. d) The term "interested service arrangement" in terms of debt payments, the arrangements for the maintenance of debt-related services, It means something. (3) The costs to be collected are shown in state accounting accounts to include the fourth level of economic classification; the final bill is drawn up at level two. (4) The Finance Minister is in charge of making arrangements between the legislation provisions concerned and the analytic budget classification to ensure the necessary fitness and to address the problems that may arise. İstanbul MP Ercan Cengiz on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 4. Here you are, Mr. Genghis. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0150par0222	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, when we look at the 2012 budget, we see that revenue and funding pens have grown considerably. In the AKP, however, not only do budget pencils grow, but there are other things growing. In Turkey, poverty has grown, corruption has grown more, and injustice and lawlessness have grown equally naturally in the land where corruption and poverty grew. The unemployment rate, I'm afraid, has also seen 14 per cent during the ten-year AKP ruling period. Internal debt, foreign debt, even a record-breaking record, has increased the public debt supply of $257 billion in 2002 to 520 billion euros, increased by more than 100 per cent in nine years. Cari is even more generous, almost unsatisfactory, and the January-sum current deficit has reached $65 billion and the last 12 months open is 78 billion. The bottom line is, wherever you're looking, you're looking at growth, we've always grown. We grew up, so what? What's happening is there's an unhealthy and hormonal growth. Of course, the country's economy is growing. The national income has also grown, but let's not lose interest in the fact that the AKP government boasts a great deal of its growth and the AKP-era average is 4.95 per cent. During the 1990s coalitions, described as the lost years, the average is 4 percent. Dear friends, there is a growth in the country's average, whereas anyone who sees the government, who listens to the AKP's ruling authority, thinks Turkey grows by 10 per cent every year. The AKP government well knows how to grow, not manage the economy, but advertise, so you have to give them their rights. Dear friends, from the budget figures, the AKP will continue to finance spending with indirect taxes. Indirect taxes, however, are a sign of injustice and weakness. You're taxing and taxing people because you can't get taxes from those who have the power. We see once again in this budget bill how weak a party that has been in power for ten years and whose name is justice is such a vital area. And when we look at budget spending, it's a much worse picture. In 2012, the amount is $50 billion, which is expected to be paid in debt interest. The interest amount to be paid is more than $11 billion more than the budget of the Ministry of National Education, which boasts the highest grant, and 3.5 times the budget of the Ministry of Health, and 25 times the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. However, it is clear how far behind our country is in these areas and how much it is necessary to spend. I'd like to give you examples of education and health. The GDP is 5.9 on the OECD average, while Turkey, unfortunately, is the lowest in 3.8 and OECD countries. The grant to the National Ministry of Education for 2012 is 39 billion euros, 27.7 billion employees' expenses. It corresponds to 2.7 per cent of the 2012 national income, which was estimated at 1 trillion 426 billion dollars in the Central Future Program in 2011. So, where are we in health? Unfortunately, that's not good either. Turkey is the last of 34 OECD countries, as part of its GDP and health spending per capita. The private sector has a 9.5 per cent average of public health spending, while the proportion is 6.1 per cent of the informal domestic in Turkey. As in most lanes, I'm afraid we're the last on this lane. The average health spending average of OECD countries in 2009 is $3,223, while health spending per capita is 902 dollars per person in our country. Unfortunately, we're the last ones here. Health and education are essential to the social state. So what does the 2012 budget tell us in these areas? This is how it's going to go. But it's our country that's gone, our shining generations, our future. But we regret to see that the 2012 budget is not intended for our future, it is also intended to save the day. Where are we in the state of law when the social state is like this? Dear friends, as far as our justice system is concerned, even though the share of justice spending has increased over the years, it's still not enough. The budget for the Ministry of Justice is around 5.5 billion TL. This amount is less than 2 per cent of the budget and 5 per thousand per cent of the national income. Justice, however, is the basis of the country, the state, the key element that keeps society together in peace. A share in such a vital area is quite inadequate. In Turkey, the most important problem of justice is a number of technical conditions and financial possibilities. Yes, these are important issues for the system that interfere with our system. But what is much more important and unfortunately much more careless is the concept of justice, and the independence of the judiciary. Is there any mention of an increase in the quality of justice service at this time? Justice is an area of superiority, not of the strong, but of the righteous, that includes all, without distinction among men. Justice, however, differed from that understanding during the AKP period. Participants were protected during the AKP period, while the AKP's opponents and sectors tried to be neutralized and oppressed through justice. Again, in this period of time, his sense of justice has suffered a great blow. First, there was consciously a state of chaos in the judiciary, and at every level of the judiciary, the right air of what I did was born, and at no level of trust was left to anyone. Special authority courts have been invented and the law has been massacred here. Today, violations of the law continue as far as they can, and this situation is being watched in a non-registered manner. The new HSYK, which emerged as a result of the referendum, was unable to satisfy its desire for a democratic and pluralist structure. The new Supreme Court and the new Prosecutor's Office were also created after the new HSYK was formed. As soon as HSYK was established, 3,049 judges and prosecutors' positions have been changed in a short period of eight months. In 2007, a bill was drafted to reduce the Supreme Court's number of apartments and the number of members, but in 2011, the number of apartments and members were increased. Now you have to ask: were you wrong in 2007 or wrong in 2011? Dear friends, there's one thing everyone needs to know, this is an operation to bring the Supreme Court and the State to order and control from these high judicial bodies. This has been accomplished. The Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals have been changed by an unprecedented campaign based on an ordinary, simple judicial incident, and new circles have been formed in these high courts, although it is not necessary, and the Supreme Court and the Court have been transformed into a very different structure by increasing the number of members of the existing agencies. The elections are now being held around here, and they end up in the way the AKP wants them to. As a matter of fact, this matter is easily explained. All these are political games that upset any tradition of merit in the judiciary. Dear friends, the distribution of judgment and justice is a very important event that cannot be underestimated. For this, knowledge, experience, integrity, and tradition are very necessary criteria. During the AKP period, those of us who were not, by the distinction of those who were not, were almost completely eliminated, and the Turkish judiciary was pushed into chaos today. When you look at the full picture of the administration and the judiciary, everything is going as requested. The demand is a single man's regime based on the deepened ruling party system and the unity of forces based on Islamic fundamentals. To see all these steps in the field of justice is sad, thought - inspiring, and sadly worrying. When entering 2012, it does not appear to be a good picture. With these thoughts, I salute your high council.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0151par0241	Thank you. Mr. Genghis. Batman MP Ayla Akat Ata on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ancestor.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0152par0245	Mr. President, thank you, I'm paying my respects. I have taken a pledge on Article 4 of the 2012 Financial Year Central Management Budget Bill. I salute everyone. Dear lawmakers, it's a clause where definitions are passed, so we find it appropriate to evaluate some issues that we find lacking in the overall budget. Although one of the priorities is considered sufficient by the Minister for the budget for education, which needs to be educated, we think is quite inadequate, which is also a common reality in Turkey, which is widely accepted by all parts of society. We don't think we can move forward at the point of resolving some of the problems that come from education in Turkey unless we share our assessments of the education issue and our political perspective. Today, when a program is introduced at the point of resolving the problems of the society, one of the first articles is the title of education, but we also put aside the problems we have set aside at the point of education of children with whom we have a future. Again, when we look at the debates that have been held today and this year, the budget will increase even more, compared to the years that have gone by. We see that some assessments have been made, including wishes, but unfortunately we have not heard anything from the government or from the relevant mouths. There's a problem, everyone agrees, but the search for a common ground at a solution point doesn't happen by making a move from political power, unfortunately. When we look at the budget for education and look at the other pencils needed to sustain a person's daily life, we see that its location is quite small, and we see that almost 10 per cent of the country's budget has been transferred to security. The share in the budget is so small, but we say that we will build our future, a free future together, and we will create a way for our children to build their future with a common spirit by acting with such anxiety. We're so far away from this. Look, I'd like to give you some examples of my own knowledge. Batman's district of Bekirhan, the town center is not large enough to open a primary school, it doesn't have a large population, but I'm talking about a town that deserves to open two primary schools when we evaluate it with villages in the district centre. Our Minister is from Batman. I was given the signatures of students who needed primary education there, and I delivered this to our Minister of National Education in the last term, but the answer came to us: population is not enough, so we can't start primary education there. Now, in Ankara, the girls have been hanged all over Turkey if Anne doesn't read it. She has made a statement that the girls won't read it. But, of course, other than these statements, there are some administrative practices that need to be led to fill in. Now, there's an elementary school, an elementary school based in the city, and we have a weakness at the opening point. Of course, other than that, we have some basic problems, and I want to talk to them as much as I can. Now, these girls can't go to school. In the region, you know, mandatory education, elementary school; even the number of children going up to that time has dropped very seriously according to other parts of the country, but as a result of elementary school, we don't open primary education either to stay at home or encourage marriage, because your population is not enough. There's a lot of serious work to be done on this. The school needs to be assessed with the villages. If there is no hope, the need must be met by considering the proximity or distance from the next elementary school or near the centre. These kids -- which is under very difficult circumstances -- let's say they come in, they start reading at the center. We visited the locations of this place. One -- and this is a private dorm -- we go, and there are young women between twelve and sixteen who are between the age of twelve and seventeen who live in these dorms, where there are six students working at a 1 square meter table. The common usage area is only 2 square meters, but even so, Vekim, we want to study under these conditions. There is a potential. These are the conditions. So there are six people in rooms designed over four people -- which are not a square meter of rooms -- who have no conditions to work with, because our young girls work in beds because they can't find a table, and sometimes there are two young women in bed, but even though we want to read under these conditions. There's a will, there's a potential. So, are we able to implement a mechanism that can serve this potential? No. But other than that, there's a mechanism that operates in those dorms, which means that all of our MPs sitting here need to be disturbed. One is that in those dorms, yes, young minds, open minds for all kinds of abuse, these brains are somehow subject to education in private dorms. That's what they tell us, and I'm sure they tell you. If you don't attend education once, if you don't attend two, you won't get a chance to stay in that dorm. You will surely attend education -- which is mostly community education -- if you are found to participate in these studies, you can continue to stay in that dorm. Opening these dorms... If parents in this country now have the will to send their children to school, but if their economic situation is not enough, we will budget it, and we will open schools there and create conditions for our young girls and sons to read, and we will open places where they can stay, where they can address housing problems. At this point, there is a serious decline between the east and west of the country, both in school and in elementary school, which is the size of elementary school and high school education, but there is still much to be done. By creating the budget and the staff of this, we can take it outside the abuse channels and discuss it on a common ground and find a solution. Look, there are some very offensive things going on. Like what? For example, he wants to study, he goes to the dorm, but he's spotted, he's removed. You can't stay here. It's called. However, they have good intentions and they have teachers, but the children are taken out at mealtimes, where there is food for 100 people, and we can't give it to 105. That's how those kids get hurt. If we're not going to budget this, it's a pity that we're not just going to evaluate all of our practices, all of our activities, all of our government channels, to assess them with a security axis, and instead of meeting the basic needs of those people, we're not going to be able to put together some budget pencils that don't fit in their daily lives. We have to put together the budget pencils that people will feel in their daily lives because the budget that we're saving today, where we've set their pencils, is filled with these people's tax dollars. We're just designing this tax, this tax-ridden treasure, treasure pens, budget pens, and we're using this treasure. Another dimension: Dear lawmakers, I am deeply disturbed because I have never been inside a military barracks since I was a lawyer, but I did go, and something the students told me at the dorm affected me, and I hope it affects you, too. They're taking our young girls to the barracks under the name of social activity, where the commander and his wife are engaged in a certain activity with our young girls. We don't accept the removal of such young minds, especially our young girls, in any way, into any structure called social activity. It's a shame, it's a shame. Or... which is another phase, which may be acceptable, because we've met with the Commissioner. Our young girls will be involved in social activities. They're taken to movie theaters, movie theaters. Did you get permission from your parents? Of course, we did. Because who writes the permission? He's looking for the dorm manager and he says... the kids are staying there. There's nowhere else for your parents to send. He says: "We will perform a social activity; do you allow it? Yes, we allow it." After all, the teacher, the dorm manager, has delivered his child. He says that the meat is yours and the bone is mine. He trusts that much. But where is he being taken? There's a mentality that leads to the barracks, where social peace will be restored, prejudices will be broken at that young age. We're up against it all the way, fellas. We don't accept that. All political parties present need to deny it. We don't want young women, young girls, young children going to barracks or any security agency. That's not how prejudices are broken, that's how prejudices are fed. If we want to break the prejudices of these people, we will ensure the safety of the people, the brothers, the brothers, the brothers, the other individuals they live with, who are concerned about their lives, especially their parents. We'll give them the right to do politics. These young people will stop worrying about the people they live with. There is a free, equal environment. They will say. Otherwise, we can't break prejudices like this. We can't break these prejudices by moving them to the barracks, including police activities. But it's obvious that their needs are very clear. I want to read. There's a will that says, but unfortunately...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0153par0264	Thank you, Mr. Ancestor.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0152par0265	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0153par0267	On behalf of him, CHP Aydın MP Bulent Tezcan. Here you go, Mr. Tezcan.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0154par0270	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're discussing the budget law of 2012. We've moved on to the matter. I made a promise on my own behalf. First, I wish that the 2012 budget, despite all its negativity, would at least produce positive results for everyone in Turkey in the coming period, at least in practice. Unfortunately, we're only making wishes about this because from the talks we've had so far, the 2012 budget is, unfortunately, far from a budget for meeting the needs of large populations in Turkey. Dear friends, almost every section in Turkey has serious problems. During a chat with the tradesmen before the budget talks began... the tradesman who had difficulty paying even the shipping tax... complained that after a while, after being subject to the ledger, he couldn't pass the transfer once again when he wanted to be taxed. When we talk to the merchants, all the merchants complain about the shopping malls in Aydın. Here at the Assembly General Assembly, as the bill on the commission's agendas has been shown for years -- in front of the markets -- and retreated, Mr. Prime Minister says the age of grocery stores in Turkey is over. But on the other hand, the major shopping centers have even taken a look at the bread of that small shop, the shoe store, the store, the store, and the manicator. Dear friends, not just the tradesman, but the farmer's miserable. I met with the farmers in the co-op at the cotton league today before I got here. The price of cotton is $1.20, $1.20, $1.50, $1.20. Now, the cottonman's in trouble. As the farmer fills the tank of the tractor for 240 liras, the government collects $120 of this 240 mazot from the farmer as tax, 120 lira. The total of the VAT and VAT is about 49 percent, and we are budgeting with such a tax system. Likewise, the problem with fertilizer is that the farmer has the same problem, the farmer has the same problem with medicine. We're budgeting, but how much more do we put in the farmer's pocket? How much more bread can we take from the farmer's table? Dear friends, could it be something like this? Look, in 2010, the tax from diesel alone, the gas that the farmer used was $5.8 billion, about $6 billion. With these budgets, we claim to raise the economy of Turkey in the coming period. With this budget, we'd hit the back of the Turkish farmer once more, and we'd do nothing else, and we'd put together a budget like this. Dear friends, of course, there are not only problems with this, there are a lot of things to tell, but I would like to share with you in particular, the MPs: look, there's news in the papers again today. Illegal listening has become common in Turkey. Illegal wiretaps are now being served directly in Turkey. Illegal listening in the Turkish Penal Code is a crime, but illegal listening has been served before the eyes of power so far, and unfortunately no measures can be taken against it. Mr. Group Deputy President Emine Gülter Tarhan. A speech -- supposedly this -- has been published by the press, a well-known site has published news time, power has blind eyes, deaf ears, and is speechless in this regard. To shut up about it is to be a partner. The task of power in this matter is to find out who's responsible, and if he can't find it, then power is a partner. Thank you all.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0155par0280	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan. Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0156par0284	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love. Dear President, dear lawmakers, I am the MP of Malatya, the capital of the world's apricot capital. I'm a member of the Hekimhan, where when you touch it, the best nut in Turkey is produced. I am the deputy of the Arabgir, whose black grapes he has produced, and the one sought throughout the land. I'm a member of Doğanşehir, who produces the most beautiful apple and beans in the region. I'm a member of Akçadağ, a famous Akçadağ, whose famous pear is wanted to be destroyed by an Israeli missile shield. I am the deputy of Yazhan, Karaca, of the land that produces the most beautiful wheat in the land without water. I am the MP of Arguvan. I am the MP of Arguvan, whose foundation was laid down in 1995, whose dam has not been built in years, and who has been subjected to all kinds of distinctions. I'm a member of the Green Yurt, where the famous Dalbastian cherries, named after one another in Turkey, are produced. I'm a member of the Doğanyol, which is famous for its pomegranate. I am the deputy of Battalgazi, Hatunsuyu, Ma'am's farm, Dilekt, who broke the sewers and watered the apricots so that the apricots would not dry. I am the MP of Kuluncak, of Darendeh of Kale, of the city of agriculture in Turkey, with all its products. Why am I saying this? Dear friends, it is important for Malatya to produce such important products that the Department of Meteorological Regional Directorate is ordered to be closed under the law, and to be linked to another city. Is that right for Malatya, is that fair to Malatya? The Malatians, starting in April, walk around the channel, see if it's going to rain, whether it's going to be frosted in meteorology. Please do not play with Malatiah's bread, nor destroy the agriculture of Malatiah. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I am the congressman of a losing city. I'm a member of a city with a monopoly on it, sold at the expense of Sumerbank, given to the Dutch by the famous hall of state. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we're dealing with another conquistador, another looter. The Sugar Factory, which the State has cancelled before, which we have insisted on against, is being asked to pursue. That's not fair, that's illegal. The total value of factories, including Malatya, Elbistan, Erzincan, is $266 million. Sold for $266 million. It's a complete rip-off, total destruction of production, handing over the property of a people. Why am I saying this, guys? Look, these four factories are worth $266 million, each factory is worth $66.5 million. Now, Malatya, the real estate value of this factory in 2010, so it's just real estate value, 240 million liras, except for the factory in it. I'm getting your attention, it's property value only. Again, there's no factory in it, there's no factory facility, so I'll give you another 32-acre example -- the state building that was sold with its famous mosque and its mosque destroyed overnight, the 32-acre state building sold for $52.5 million. The Malatian Sugar Factory is 459 acres, which is exactly 15 times the size of the state building, but the logic here is, three for one, so it's free, so it's a chaser, so it's a looter! Dear friends, if this factory is sold, not only will the factory that works in it disappear, but the beet farmer, the mover, the feeder, 85,000 Malatians, will starve, will be poor. I invite you to reconsider this decision once again, to be conscientious in dealing with the goods of our grandfathers and the goods of our fathers. My dear friends, I'm the congressman of a town that's been cheated on. On May 17, 2011, the Prime Minister came and said in Malatya's square: "O Malatya, I will make you a great city. Women, men, are you ready? Make children, increase your population, complete your population for 750 thousand, and I will make you a city. Friends, the law of nature, the child is nine months old, seven months ago, Prime Minister Malatya deceived him, the great city has forgotten his promise.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0157par0295	When the time comes, he'll be a big city.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0156par0296	I invite you to possess Malatya, especially those elected from Malatya, to claim Malatya. He asks you not to pursue the goods of Malatiah, as you sold the rest of them, but I salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0158par0298	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Congressmans, we're now moving on to the QA section. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0159par0301	Mr. President, I'm asking the Minister of Finance, who's constantly collecting taxes through maths through tradesmen. Do you think that's true? My second question to the Minister of Urbanism is: People who want to build houses in villages within the Mujavir area are granted licenses for $5,000 in licenses. Do you think that's true? Yours truly.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0160par0304	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0161par0306	Thank you, Mr. President. I asked a question about the closing of municipalities in the previous article, Mr. Secretary said he was in favor of closing, but they didn't say if there was a study on it. Will the municipalities, which are under 2,000 populations, be captured or not? That's the first one. Second: When these closing municipalities are looked at, you will find that most of them are in the inner Anatolian region. There has been a large number of migrations in the inner Anatolian region recently since the last five years. Almost a large number of cities in the Central Anatolian Region are lost, and the number of lawmakers is falling one by two. In 2009, you brought in a new incentive system in this direction, but in these areas, they don't benefit, they don't benefit from the higher incentive system. However, according to the older system of encouragement in Law 4325, there was more use. Do you plan to do at least one study to stop the migration in these areas on a sectoral basis or on a product basis? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0162par0310	Thank you, Mr. Right. Dear Light...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0163par0312	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as it is known, last year's arrangement opened the way for fellow professors from our universities who worked as assistant professors and came to retirement to the first degree. However, since this arrangement, unfortunately, many professors in our universities have not been granted the right to the first degree, even though retirement has arrived. Do you plan to solve this problem in 2012? It is said by our universities that the Ministry of Finance has not given or released a first-degree staff. Can you solve this problem? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0164par0315	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0165par0317	Mr. Secretary, you don't appreciate me. I've declared you father of the Muhtars, you haven't accepted it, be his mother. I said, "Be your mother." You didn't accept it. You tell me, I'll answer. In 2002, 90 lira salary, 80 lira BUG-KUR bonus, the headman was left with 10 lira in his pocket. Today, he gets a salary of $370, he has $350 BUG-KUR, he has $20 left in his pocket. I'll give you that answer for him. But you take care of them. Two: The Mukhtar goes for others, gives them green cards, but you have a salary, you can't get green cards. He can't treat his own family children. You didn't get it back, but I'm telling you again: be his mother or his father!
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0164par0319	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0166par0321	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you've changed the structure of all the ministries by order of the law. On this occasion, all bureaucrats have been appointed as consultants, specialists, researchers. We don't know the number of bureaucrats raised by our government, but they've become full-paying unemployed. Those who replace them will be paid according to their new status. In short, you've done two evils with these laws. One, you've slaughtered bureaucrats. According to this, how many bureaucrats have you dismissed with these decrees? Second: How much public damage have been caused by the replacements and the repayment? Do you think you can solve this problem? If you're going to solve it, how are you going to solve it? That's what we want to know.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0164par0323	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0167par0325	Thank you, Mr. President. Health workers receive return capital with the salary. However, return capital revenues do not reflect retirement. In this regard, the Ministry of Health points to the Ministry of Finance. As a government, do you plan to make an arrangement? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0168par0328	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0169par0330	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, we didn't get an answer to the question we asked earlier, and I repeat: Under Law 5766, in order to finance the European Cultural Capital Agency in Istanbul 2010, special consumption tax continues to be paid a penny and 1.5 cents in taxes on the engine, according to the ruler of the list I (A). When do you intend to end this exercise? Do you find it right to continue even though the agency's activities have been terminated? Thank you very much.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0170par0333	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0171par0335	Thank you, Mr. President. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to start with the last question because our dear friend has asked me before. Dear friends, of course this is to finance the costs of the Istanbul 2010 Cultural Capital Agency, correct; an additional OTV was brought in on the engine in Istanbul and on the gasoline. I don't think it's right to continue, I believe it should be removed. We've met with our friends in this frame, so hopefully we'll bring the necessary arrangement to our House. I'd like to state that in particular. Dear friends, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk to you about the chiefs. Thanks to the number, Mr. Mevlüt, but I'll give you the exact number, and then I'll tell you, we support improving the situation of our chiefs as the Ministry of Finance; that's the first issue. Secondly, I've told you before, there's been a very serious study on the reformation of the Village Law, or rather, of the Village Law. We are waiting for this study to be completed and then, of course, to become a law, and we find it right to be done in that frame, because if we do a piece of equity arrangement, there are still demands from many people. I've always been the Minister of Finance. But let me give you the number again because -- if you'll excuse me -- in 2002, it was true, there was a 97 lira salary, the lowest BUG-KUR bonus of $87, and there was a $10 difference. There's $384 today, there's a $280 BUG-KUR bonus, there's a 104 lira difference.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0172par0341	It's not a waste of money.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0171par0342	But dear friends, now...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0173par0343	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0171par0344	But if you'll excuse me... Now, fellas, let's...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0173par0345	Minister, let's make you dirty then, Kirve.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0171par0346	Now, look, guys, in 2002, there's a $10 difference and 97 lira. We've increased it four to five times, and the difference has increased. Well, let's appreciate that, too.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0174par0348	Is that enough, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0171par0349	No, that's not enough, guys. But, dear friends, we're going to grow the country, our revenues will increase, and a lot of people will be better off living their lives with limited means at the moment.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0174par0351	Why don't we just sell that monopoly and book a fund from the money winners and pay these muhtars?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0171par0352	Now, dear friends, it is by law that assistant professors should be given first-degree staff. The change of staff of the currents will take place with the Council of Ministers. Our work in this direction continues. Hopefully, that's what I'm hoping for in 2012. Again, one of the questions asked was about our health workers. Now, dear friends, of course in the healthcare sector, especially our colleagues, in addition to salary, are being funded by a very serious amount of rotating capital, correct. If we reflect it fully on your retirement, it creates serious problems in the actuary balance. We've taken a step in this direction before, if I remember correctly, we took a step in this direction last year, we've made an adjustment, but I don't think there's any way we can reflect it all. Again, a number of our fellow bureaucrats have been suspended and so on... dear friends, equal wages for this equal work and so on... a number of KHKs are being criticised a lot. I wish we had time. There has never been a reduction in the rights of any of our friends. There is a improvement in the rights of 405,000 people. Since 2006, we have taken steps to reduce the difference between the additional payment area and those of our officers who did not receive it. With this last step, we've actually finished what we're going to finish this year in 2012. The same title, the same degree, we've evened the prices of our friends doing the same job at the highest level. There's no reduction in self-esteem in any way. All of our employees are valuable to us, so just because some of our friends have become consultants doesn't mean that they should be assessed in a different status. I personally, as Minister of Finance, still work at different locations before, and now benefiting from our friends who are counselors.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0175par0357	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0171par0358	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0175par0359	I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 5 - (1) The criteria of this Law have been shown below: A) The distribution of the grants provided by Article 1 of this Law (A). B) incomes to continue collecting according to the legislation related to public administrations under central management (B). C) Basic provisions (C) based on the revenues of public administrations under the central administration. ) The basis for the use and expenditure of some funds (E). D) Adds to Law 5018 (II) and (III) management and institutions (F) are estimated to be spent on these opportunities with the cash available to them (F). e) daily and reparations in accordance with Articles 10/2/1954 and Law 6245 (H). f) Financial limits (I) that should be shown in the budget law according to various laws. g) In addition courses, conferences, and extra work fees and the sums of other fees (K). đ) Boarding fees from students of the school boards (M) run by the Ministry of National Education, dated 11/8/ 1982 and under Article 3 of the National Education Ministry's Boarding Boarding Law 2698. H) The purchase value of animals (O), dated 7/6/1939 and under the Law on National Self-defense No. 3634). I) Under Law 3634, daily rent prices (P) with the average purchase value of motor vehicles, which will be purchased via the national defense contract. i) The type of transports available to public administrations (II) and (III) are available during the year, the type of vehicles available to them in service, and the price of purchases of vehicles that are subject to the Law of Cars 5/1/1961 and under the Law of Cars 237 (T) during the year. j) Home service monthlys (V) bound by laws and decrees. Ankara MP Levent Gök on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 5. Here you go, Mr. Sky. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0176par0380	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 5th Amendment of the 2012 Central Budget Law Bill. I salute you all with love and respect. Mr. President, I'd like to take a moment to point out what I'm saying. When I looked at the binding ruler, I had this weird situation. Among the laws considered a basis for budget law, the valued lawmakers are considered to be a decree of 17 unscheduled laws that have not yet been on the agenda of our Parliament. So the laws that we're talking about now are based on the budget law, which has been put into place 17 decrees under the law. My dear friends, as you know, the 91st Article of our Constitution is to come to the Parliament and discuss the provisions under the law immediately. How can we support this budget when we have not yet arrived in Parliament, despite the Constitutional decree that has not been passed? What kind of freak is that? This budget is a poor budget according to the Constitution, dear friends. I'm warning you. According to the Constitution, the decrees under the law that should first come to parliament were to be discussed here, and they could only be on the budget after passing by. Look, in 1215, the Magna Carta, considered the first document in human rights exactly eight centuries ago, began with a rebellion against kings by the nobles, you know, and the nobles against John the Homeless, you can't tax yourself, you can't make the law by yourself, you can't stand up and be accepted by Magna Carta in 1215. We're running Parliament in a situation even more than eight centuries ago, and we're raising a budget that has no legal basis. There can't be such a budget. Based on your majority, you can't establish a dictatorship here, you can't protect it. These should have come to the front of our House as soon as possible. Look, on the one hand, you're doing this, and on the other hand, I'm going to share with you an exemplary story. The Ankara Metropolitan Municipality's subway work has also been a very important resource and an application in the 2012 budget. The Ankara subway, where Ankara's mayor has failed to manage Ankara, is an example for Ankara's people. Since this mayor came into office, I'm going to make a metro of the Ankarans. He's cheated on them, and unfortunately, he's dragged our Parliament into it. Look what he did. In 2001, Mr. Melih Gökçek gives the Ankarans the good news: a month later, I lay the foundation of the Sincan subway, and I finish it in 36 months. My dear friends, 2001, a month later the subway foundation is set up and will be finished in 36 months. We said then -- there are three subway lines being made in Ankara -- don't do it, finish one, then go to the other. This was normally the practice, and we supported it, but at the same time, because of three separate subways, Ankara City went into a major stalemate, and it didn't take a step, and look what happened next. Later, Ankarans continued to be deceived, and Melih Gökçek gave the Ankaraans the good news before the 2009 elections. Sincan and Teaway have finished their subways and are now in the process of announcing their start in local testing expeditions. That's exactly what Melih Gökçek said in 2008: "Before the local elections, before the 2009 elections, I open up the Sincan and Teaway subway, and give the Ankara people the good news." What did he see? There's nothing there. At the next stage, Ankara Metropolitan Municipality is one of Turkey's largest debtors. Your state and your power to save Ankara Metropolitan Municipality has had very serious services. The debts to BOTAŞ have not been paid by Ankara Metropolitan Municipality. Although sold in advance, the debt of natural gas was not paid to BOTASH, even though the citizen bought it in advance. And finally, this Parliament, before you, the House, has passed a law, my dear friends: the Capital Gas Act. And with a change of law on 25 May 2007, a law was passed to pay off the debts of Ankara Metropolitan Municipality to BOTAŞ, and to fund the construction of subways. It's an interesting reason for this law to be removed. In this law, the capital gas will be established, and the natural gas services of the EGO (EGO) are transferred to a company called the capital gas. And the reason for the law says that it will be privatized within two years, and with this transaction in 2000 and with the money obtained, the debt to BOTASH will be paid and the subway will be completed. My dear friends, we've come from 2007... 2007 to 2011. The reason for the law is obvious. The gas will be repaid, its debts to BOTASH will be paid, and the subways will be completed with the rest of the money. Of course, Melih Gökçek continues to rely on power, he continues to give good news to the Ankarans, but he has reached a point where he has not been able to hide it from anyone, which he said is not the work of metro-making municipalities, but the government's work. Look at the point where we've come, the most important pen of EGO is separated from the EGO, under the name of privatisation, and debt has not been paid, and on the subway has not been made, and on the back of the government has not been made any progress. Of course, the government didn't ignore it, but again, Melih Gökçek was rescued on the subway, and by law last year, the subway work in Ankara was transferred to the Ministry of Transport, my dear friends. But did the government take on an important service of a municipality in Diyarbakır, my dear friends? Or did the government take over any major projects in Adana, any major projects in Eskişehir? He didn't take credit for any of it.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0177par0392	Who did Izmir? Izmir?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0176par0393	Now, look, what happened at this stage, my dear friends, I want to express to you. To finish the subways in Ankara, it would take around 3 quadrillion liras.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0177par0394	What happened to Izmir?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0176par0395	Well, the capital gas privatisation of the capital has not been done since 2007, and the head of the capital gas says a few days ago: we're just going to start privatising. Our 2010 profit is $31 million. Now, it is my right to ask the following questions: 1) Why did natural gas leave the municipality, which was the most important source of revenue, if it wasn't going to do the gravitas? A reasonable answer should be given to this question. My most important question is: If the revenue from the privatisation of the capital gas was to be used to build subways and the subway was now transferred to the Transport Ministry, could the privatisation of capital gas be at stake? Dear MPs, I don't think Ankara Metropolitan Municipality is the father's farm. Melih Gökçek is present and absent tomorrow. A mayor who will serve there tomorrow will be deprived of the city's most important source of income. Don't let that happen. This privatisation is now a criminal, it's questionable because there's no reason for it. An organization that was put into privatisation to transfer funds to the subway no longer has a say in the face of the fact that the construction of the subway is now being transferred to another body of the government. The privatisation of the capital gas has now become highly controversial. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to inform you and warn you that I have no right to inform you that you will stop this application immediately and extradite D.C. Gas back into the EGO. This is a very important source of income. It's an institution with 1.5 million subscribers, capital gas. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, what I'm trying to tell you here is that the government has claimed responsibility for the incompetence of a municipality. I know, of course, why the government is doing this. At the coming point, he met a mayor who was so weak that it was said, "Damn it!," and the government took it upon themselves. The government's taking over, but that's going to cost our budget three quadrillion liras. We are now on our way to build a subway that Ankara must do with its own means, from the tax of a Kayseri citizen, from the tax of a citizen living in Hakkari, from the tax of a citizen living in Sivas. This is a great injustice to Turkey. In previous applications, Mr. Karayalçin found his project, found its source and gave Ankara the subway. This is the straight path. Mr. Minister, let's stop this privatisation immediately and, of course, as the Republican People's Party, we will share these questions with you, we will inform you, and we will do our opposition mission in the most effective way. I wish our budget to be good for our country, and I salute you with love and respect.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0178par0404	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0179par0405	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0178par0406	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0179par0407	The speaker used unrealistic statements about someone here who didn't have the right to answer. The speaker may hold a press conference with the Ankara Metropolitan Mayor or if he has a problem with his action, but especially with the capital gas section, if he had looked into the archives, the Plan and Budget Commission's reports had been released in 2007, D.C. Natural Gas A.Ş. He also knew that Mr. Kilicdaroglu, who is now the President, knew that Mr. Hamzacebi had a period in which we discussed the matter, and that we had arranged it together. Obviously,....the capital is natural gas. If it can't be privatized within two years, it'll go to the Privatisation Administration. We've ruled together, but the Honorable Congressman didn't investigate it, he used unrealistic statements about someone who had no right to answer here. That's what I told him, sir, to get him on the record.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0178par0409	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0180par0410	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0178par0411	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0180par0412	Mr. President, what the Deputy Chairman of the AKP Group says is not true. Then our current chairman, Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, who is the Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0181par0413	He wasn't acting president of the group, then, he was a member of the Plan and Budget Commission.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0180par0414	Then, no, the group was the president's guardian.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0181par0415	He was a member of the Plan and Budget Commission.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0180par0416	He's had a very serious opposition to this issue. I've got the transcripts, I'll show him.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0181par0417	There was a clock dispute between Mr. Gökçek and Mr. Kilicdaroglu, a clock dispute.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0182par0418	Wait a minute, sir, wait a minute...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0180par0419	In addition, Ankara's subway budget for 2012 is now being transferred to the Ministry of Transport, which is now in the government's programme.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0181par0420	That includes all the subways. You lack information.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0180par0421	Of course, it's the Republican People's Party's job to account for a 3 quadrillion-dollar budget.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0183par0423	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0181par0424	Your president was a member of the Plan and Budget Commission. You don't even know the history of your president.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0183par0425	Point taken. Diyarbakır MP Nursel Aydoğan on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Aydoğan. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0184par0430	Mr. President, I have once again made a promise on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party on the budget. Again, I salute all friends. Dear friends, before we evaluated the budget, a day ago, our Minister of Youth and Sports had a very heated assessment of the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports while one of our party's deputies finished speaking on the grounds that he used the word "Kurdistan." I'd like to say a few words on that evaluation first. While reviewing, he said our country has seven geographical regions, both of which are East and Southeast Anatolian. Of course, it's an elementary school social knowledge, and I think everyone who's finished elementary school knows about it. I'm guessing everyone knows this geographical information, since our country's parliamentary election requirement is to finish at least elementary school and therefore all our friends in this hall have finished elementary school. But I would have asked the Minister to say, rather, that aside from this geographical knowledge, there is a historical reality. I'd like him to say a few words in motion from this historical reality, which, unfortunately, didn't happen. Now, dear friends, you know, the word "Kurdt" and "Kurdistan" were two forbidden words in this country. Fortunately, at the end of their 30 years of struggle, the Kurds have now lifted the ban on the word "Kurdish" but the word "Kurdistan" remains a banned word. Now, as you all know, the word "Kurdistan" is actually a word used in the Ottoman Empire during the Seljukian Empire. So a name given to a region that is considered the land of the Kurds is the word "Kürdistan." And then we see this word being used during the founding of the republic. We see Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, especially in Parliament, making a lot of assessments of the cities of Kurdistan in the beginning of the Assembly. So historical realities tell us that you have a geographical concept called Kurdistan. Nevertheless, we insist that it is not right today to avoid the words of Kurdistan and Kurdistan, and not even to be able to bear the pronouncement of them. Besides, we have a lot of friends on various panels, symposiums, conferences, who are being tried for using the word "Kurdistan" in Turkey, and again, there are acquittals made by judges in this country's courts, dear friends. Moreover, there is still an unresolved Kurdish problem in this country. If we are so allergic to Kurdt (Kurdistan) and the words "Kurdistan," we should all have a real concern about how this problem can be solved. Now, unless these two concepts are accepted, there is no solution to the Kurdish problem, friends. Using the word Kurdistan now does not mean dividing the country. ▪ Kurdistan is the name of a geography, as I have just pointed out. Kurds, we all need to know, dear friends, we are always expressing the solution to the Kurdish problem in many platforms as BDP people: in this country, as we all say, within the borders of this country, we will not build a Kurdish state, even if you offer it to us in a golden platter, we must now believe that this matter is resolved by equal and free with all the peoples living in Turkey, and even further and further and further, they say, "We will not build a Kurdistan state in this country, even if you offer it to the Kurds in a golden platter." If we don't believe that, we'll never solve the Kurdish problem anyway, dear friends. So once I've done this review, I'd like to make a few points on the budget. Dear friends, we're discussing the 10th budget. The 2012 budget has been the 10th budget the AKP government has made since its arrival in power. I took a look at the evaluations on the budgets that went down. There's one thing our finance ministers and other ministries, especially the Prime Minister, have drawn up the budget, which is that all the budgets are human-oriented and human-centered. Especially in the Prime Minister's annual budget assessments, we can see that he talks about a lot of people-oriented and human-centered budgets, dear friends. They refer to the human-based budget, especially in basic issues, in education, in health, in safety and justice, because of the increase in percentages of the budget in these basic ministries. When we actually look at this year's budget, we're looking at relatively high budgets for the Ministry of National Education. It's a positive development, of course, although it doesn't pay off, but we're thinking about what a human-based budget is, what a human-centered budget is, is a little bit of a broader think-out and a lot of discussion. For example, the budget of the Ministry of National Education has been increased. Of course, with the increased budget in this country, the Ministry of National Education can make beautiful schools, so they can be equipped with computers, and again, the Prime Minister has a lot of evaluations, such as smart boards in schools, which can be put into schools. So these are, of course, the services that everyone deserves, that's the way it has to be. Hopefully, it'll spread everywhere. For example, I'm a Diyarbakır MP, and I was a candidate for the elections, and I went to the villages of Kulp. I don't want to tell you about the schools there. We have friends from other parties who are Diyarbakır MP, and they probably accept that fact. Schools are pathetic, and it's a good thing I didn't choose my teaching profession, especially after seeing the teachers' lodgings. I've been praying to myself, dear friends. Of course, I hope a certain part of the country will benefit from this budget later. Now, dear friends, what I really want to talk about here is very different. It doesn't matter if you build the most beautiful schools in the world, and you put a lot of technical tools in it. Unless education is provided in this country in the main language, it is impossible to say that the budget is a human-based or human-oriented budget unless part of the budget is divided into primary language education. Look, dear friends, in the villages in Diyarbakır, 95 percent of the women, I can easily say, they don't speak Turkish, and children don't learn Turkish until they're seven years old, and when they go to elementary school, what the mothers tell us is that children come home from school crying because they meet in a different language. Now, even if you do the most beautiful, quality school in the world, you can't explain a child's psychology when they meet in a different language there, dear friends. So we say that if there really is a human budget reality in this budget, we have to start here. The same is true in health, dear friends. I admit, in Diyarbakir, come see the hospitals, they've built huge hospitals, they're equipped with big tools. Again, our Minister said, you're not really waiting for a line, you're not paying anyone for surgery, and so on. I mean, there's all kinds of health care that a person needs. There's nothing wrong with that, but we don't know the salary of the staff working in those hospitals. A nurse works at a private hospital, unfortunately, for minimum wage, and the salary taken by other assistant staff is far below living conditions, dear friends, and none of them have a union situation. Again, in these hospitals, of course, there are situations in which people who don't speak Turkish express themselves in Kurdish, especially because they are Kurdish doctors in the region. But for patients who go to the Turkish Metropolitans, this is really pathetic. So in Turkey -- again what I said -- friends -- unless the mother language is developed -- we can never, never, never talk about a human-centered budget, in education, in health, in justice, in every aspect of life, in a human-centered and human-oriented budget -- for Kurds, for other people living in Turkey. Hopefully, the next few years will give us the opportunity to make a human-focused budget. I salute you all again, with this occasion, with respect, with love.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0185par0441	Thank you, Mr. Aydoğan. Mr. Prime Minister, on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we wish you well.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0186par0444	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0185par0445	On behalf of Burdur MP Ramadan Kerim Özkan. Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0187par0447	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute your grand delegation. Our Prime Minister has joined us. I welcome him, wish him a speedy recovery, and I congratulate your group. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear friends, I'm here to talk to you about a friend of ours who has no right to answer. And I'd like to have a little chat with you about pensioners, workers, peasants, farmers who don't have the right to answer. My dear friends, people don't trust each other today. Look, we don't have loans at the Farm Bank today without 4 guarantors, 2 bails for 1, without collateral. There's a 94-percent comeback. He said, "I'm celebrating the government, but this is a comeback... because we've made people four-fifty, there's no way out. There's one guarantor, two guarantors, four guarantors, a tractor, his mother's house, his uncle's farm, mortgages, but with that, there's a back flip. We have to have a little conscience here. One of our chiefs called, and one of our chiefs from Bucak called, and I vouched for him, and I had 28 cows, and I had a 2005 tractor, and I vouched for them, and I didn't get 10,000 lira loans from the Bank of Agriculture, he says. It's a very painful fact. If we go, if we see them... we go through this. My dear friends, look, let's reduce the VAT to reasonable levels from 18 per cent in the cell. We said, "We're going to give green diesel." Every semester at the mazotta, the OTV and VAT went up, and we couldn't get the green diesel to meet the Turkish farmer in this process. Look, I just said people don't trust each other anymore. One day, the peasant comes to a tradesman with all his kindness. The shopkeeper is wearing his glasses, waiting for a customer, my client's parent. He comes with his humble personality, bringing greetings from Uncle Ese and Uncle Moses in his village, saying, "Hello uncle, Uncle Ese says hello, Uncle Moses says hello." It's beautiful, my son. Here, what's your wish? He says, "I want to buy a plow, but I'll pay for it." My son, Ese is a most honourable man, and Moses is a most honourable man, so give them my regards. Ese, my friend Moses, my friend, they're both very honourable, but the sachet, my friend, must bring the money and take the plow. People don't trust each other in this way, in our time, my dear friends. I've been in touch with the Minister. Look, there's 8 percent VAT in the feed from the cow's mouth, Mr. Prime Minister -- of course, you're busy -- there's 8 percent VAT in the breast milk, 18 percent VAT in the fertilizer. These are from the Turkish farmer. We're always judging the past. The past has been tried, overtaxed, overpaid taxes... and the past has been judged here all the time. My dear friends, the world is honey, but the spoon has been broken, and we get taxes from the flying bird. We get taxes from the tractor carburettor, we get taxes from the smoke from the exhaust, the same way the cow does. Everything that's sold on the street has taxes, we're a tax paradise -- that's what Rahmed Ozal is involved in -- we're getting taxes on VAT, we're getting private consumption taxes. Our finances are strong in finding resources, but we have to deal with the distribution of this source fairly. I told you the other day in the Department of Agriculture budget that we're funding 1 percent of the GDP. That's $10 billion in the budget. But the only support we give the farmer is about $5.5 or 6 billion. What's going on like this? The farmer's hand is dough and he's hungry. For him, we certainly demand that this law be followed. That 1% support needs to be given. In this one, too, because we are crows to give, your king to whom we will receive. They always talk about what's given, but they don't talk about what's taken. So I shared with you what was bought in the name of those manufacturers. I want our budget to be good for our country. I have some questions about our county managers at this Youth Sports. We appointed some of them as counselors, and some as researchers, some more than 50. They want a improvement in their rights. In this regard, they expect an answer from the Minister among his presentations. With these feelings, I salute the High Council. Again, I wish our Prime Minister a speedy recovery, my regards for joining the group.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0188par0462	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. On behalf of his personal name, Gaziantep MP Ali Serindağ. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0189par0466	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a pledge on my behalf. I salute your high council. I also welcome our Prime Minister and wish him well. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Congressmans, at the beginning of my statement, I'd like to address a few issues with Gaziantep. You know, Gaziantep, export potential, commercial potential, economic potential and population, is one of the major provinces of our country, but we don't see it in education. Unfortunately, Gaziantep is one of Turkey's backward provinces in education, 78, and 79. It does not suit the Gaziantep, nor does it upset the Gaziantep. Why is that? Gaziantep used to be one of our country's most successful educational provinces. What happened to Gaziantep? There are still classes of 50 or 60 in Gaziantep. In Gaziantep, the teacher's deficit has been unresolved, with a lack of nearly 4,000 teachers. In Gaziantep, when appointed administrators of schools, the driver's license is not taken care of, and it reduces the morale and efficiency of teachers. In fact, the problem is, of course, all over Turkey, the problem of education is our Turkey's problem. Even if we pass the budget through Congress without considering them, we won't succeed. My dear friends, we cannot attribute this to financial incompetence. One thinker says: "Those who calculate the cost of education should calculate the cost of ignorance. " There is nothing we can do to pay the price of ignorance. Countries who can't solve the problem of education can't solve other problems. We need to know that. A second issue has been stated for years that there will be a dam in Ardil village in our district of Carlan, which has not been completed for years. The plains of Barak still groan with thirst. We have water, but the plain can't be watered, the irrigation channels can't be finished. The irrigated irrigation channels can't be used because the farmer can't handle the energy costs. Also, Turkey and Syria have hit the Gaziantep tradesman, the Gaziantep merchant, the Gaziantep industrialist. Gaziantep, therefore, needs to be evaluated and addressed. Congressmans, one of the major problems of our country is that its legislative authority has been taken from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in effect. Look, we're all elected by the people's votes, we're here. According to Article 7 of our Constitution, Turkey belongs to the Grand National Assembly and cannot be transferred. However, it has been passed through a decree issued by the Turkish Grand National Assembly. A Parliament that cannot uphold its own law cannot uphold another's law. According to our Constitution, the decrees under law are presented to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on the day they are published in the Official Gazette, and the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is first and immediately discussed in its commissions. For months, years, on the shelf of the House, on the shelves of commissions, is it possible to consider the first and immediate discussion of decrees? Why was this sentence placed in the Constitution? To be brought to the House at once and to meet with the legislatures under the law. There's a majority of the Justice and Development Party, so why don't you make a law? Why do you hesitate to discuss these problems in the Turkish Grand National Assembly? Let our citizen see everything. So the second question is, why haven't you issued a law order from 2002 to today? Now there's this perception in society, whether you accept it or not, it's said that the structure of the Constitutional Court has been changed, so the laws of the law are being issued. We need to erase that perception. I don't want to put this in the Supreme Court, but that's the general perception of society. We need to erase this. We need to erase the perception that the judgment is a political party's backyard from our community, and the biggest task here falls to the ruling party.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0190par0476	We deleted it, we deleted it.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0189par0477	Second, why haven't we taken it off yet? I'm talking about a phenomenon that exists in society, whatever you say. Whether you accept it or not, it's being discussed in society. Well, why? There's a majority of you, why don't you bring it here? Do you want to transform society?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0190par0478	We make laws every day.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0189par0479	You don't cover for the teacher, but the one in Southeast... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute you all. It's a budget that won't cure any trouble, but I wish it all the best. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0191par0485	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. Congressmans, we're now moving on to the QA section. Five minutes is for questions. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0192par0489	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Minister, the state of Burdur has been victimised by the removal of basic military training. In this sense, in this future province of Burdur, marble, agriculture and animalism, agricultural equipment and machine sectors have contributed considerably to the economy. In this sense, would you consider supporting Burdur on a sectoral basis both in marble and in agriculture and in agricultural equipment and machines? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0193par0492	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Dear Light...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0194par0494	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, my condolences to the Prime Minister. Mr. Secretary, when the Prime Minister's statement on energy increases in Redcahamam has not yet been erased from memory, let citizens not ride in luxury vehicles. Speaking of which, in this budget (T) for what purposes are luxury vehicles of 4x4? How many new vehicles will be taken in this budget and how much will the budget be burdened? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0195par0498	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0196par0500	Under Code 666, the salaries of the vice governor and the trustees have been reduced between 100 and 200 liras according to their seniority. Do you intend to compensate for the victims of the vice governor and the trustees? Do you plan to even out the rights of first-class judges with first-class masters of first-class property in the country under similar circumstances? In the 2012 budget, will you give the farmer diesel without VAT, without VAT? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0197par0504	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0198par0506	Thank you, Mr. President. And I wish our Prime Minister well, and God bless him. While the Prime Minister is here, my question is an important question, and I'd like to make it first. See, right now, to obtain a building permit, you need to make about 30 percent of the material. Here, what is it? From ground study to app project, to tuition, that's a lot of money. Hence, people are trying to build an unlicensed building rather than building a licensed building. At least -- for example, our Tokat province is on the North Anatolian fault line -- can't a study be done at the point of further reduction of license fees or further reduction of formalities in cities with such earthquakes? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0199par0511	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0200par0513	Mr. President, I have a question for the Minister of Finance. There are treasures in Adana that have been farmed for a hundred and fifty years. From time to time, they have been given streams because of these HESEs, and for these hundred and fifty years, does the Minister of Finance intend to give away the land, the deed of the people who have been farming? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0201par0516	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Dinçer...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0202par0518	Thank you, Mr. President. And I wish our Prime Minister well. In his speeches, Mr. Finance Minister said that no one's salary has been reduced under the Law of 666 under the Law under the Name of Equal Payment Decision. However, there has been a 200-dollar reduction in the salaries of the executive managers of the estate, which we have seen so closely, that we have seen how selflessly he is working. There's been a 300 lira drop in the ministry inspector's salary. Police chief inspectors and central police chiefs have received more than a thousand numbers, zero increases, so their salaries have declined according to their precedent. The difference between finance and central agencies has increased to $1,300. Engineer-rooted managers became researchers and their salaries were reduced by 450 lira. How do you afford these dropouts? Do you intend to make amends? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0203par0522	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer. Mr. Selamoglu...
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0204par0524	Mr. President, I'd like to start by wishing my Prime Minister well. Ankara has been served to transfer the construction of the subway lines to the Ministry of Transport, Congressman, but these troubled feelings have never been expressed when the Ministry of Transport in İzmir's light rail system. First of all, we can say: I don't think it's appropriate for the Black Sea to say anything about these work on the subway line, which has been done 40 percent in 20 years, and 60 per cent can't be done, the Black Sea coast road, the Bolu tunnel that can't be opened in 16 years, the tunnel that can't be opened, the tunnel that can't. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0205par0527	Thank you, Mr. Selamoglu. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0206par0529	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, wish our Prime Minister welcome, get well soon, God bless him. Dear friends, I'd like to answer from the first question. Of course, after paying military service, the minimum impact of Burdur. And more importantly, in this new incentive system... We're currently working on our Ministry of Economics, perhaps with additional data on the provinces... You know, a few boroughs are grouped together and now taking advantage of the incentive. It's going into more detail in this new system. Of course, there can be support there, in terms of clustering some industrial sectors, and in other areas, but it's not right for me to make a point at this point before it's completed. The second question, dear friends, is that 6,450 vehicles will be acquired in 2012 under the central management budget law. It costs about 273 million liras, total. Dear friends, some of the vehicles are being renovated; some of them are being created, of course, new institutions and organizations, new ministries have been created, and their needs will be met, of course. Dear friends, there's been a lot of talk in Code 666 again. I'm telling you very clearly, no one's salary has been reduced. There was no exception there, since all the heads of departments and executives, and the undersecretary's salaries, were evened out, if our governor or trustees were assigned to the centre. While they're in the country, it looks like they've lost some extra income, but it's not really a drop. Again, if you'll excuse me, the speakers have said a lot about the tradesmen and farmers -- I'd like to clarify a few things. In 2002, our 63,520 tradesman used 154 million liras at 47 per cent interest. Today, at the beginning of 2011 -- I don't have the latest numbers -- about 234,000 tradesmen can use a $4 billion loan with low interest of about 5%. The amount of loans has increased by 26 times, the amount of tradesmen using loans has increased by 4 times, and the interest has come down by about 9 stories. Again, we provide our farmers with about 400 million in 2000, about 560 million in 2001, about 1.9 billion in support in 2002, while today we provide 11 billion dollars in support, which is a very serious support. Again, look at the number of farmers using subsidies from the Agriculture Bank, starting in 2004, using 48,413 people, taking advantage of subsidies from our 675,000 farmers today. So when you actually look at all these numbers, there's a serious recovery.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0207par0537	Our farmers are all foreclosure, tractor foreclosure, field foreclosure.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0206par0538	Of course, again, I think it should be done to reduce license fees or provide some kind of support for these constructions, while our concerned Minister was here asking questions, but in this direction... The permits are being facilitated, the information our Minister gave me. The system will be simplified, facilitated, and audits will be increased. Our minister says, but in other matters, of course, convenience can be provided and support. I probably answered all the questions, I guess, for the first time.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0208par0540	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There are three motions on matter. I'll have the motions read according to the order of the arrival first, and then I'll process it in order of the anomaly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We submit and propose that the following row be added to the 5th article (E) of the current "2012 Year Centre Management Budget Bill." "70. The repairs and renovation costs of Cem's homes are 12:01.31 in the Finance Ministry Budget. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. It will be paid by saving funds from six of its structures to the Chairman of Religious Affairs." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We submit and propose that the following row be added to the 5th article (E) of the current "2012 Year Centre Management Budget Bill." 70. 12:01.31 in the Finance Ministry Budget. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. From 1 allowance, village chiefs and town-and-town mayors receive monthly allowances for a net minimum wage. Yes, I'm now reading the most inoppressive motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the following rows to the table marked 5th article (E) of the 2012 Central Management Budget Bill. "70. The income tax for those working on minimum wage is 12.01.31 of the Finance Ministry budget. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. It is provided for from the allowance of the six arrangements. " Does the commission agree with this motion that I've read?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0209par0555	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0208par0556	Government?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0210par0557	Mr. President, if I may, I'd like to make a brief statement: According to the provisions of our constitution, there can be no expense-enhancing motion in the General Assembly. Budget laws cannot be passed without budgetary provisions. However, we consider the motion you are now reading in that framework, and we feel that it is contrary to the Constitution, and therefore we cannot participate.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0208par0559	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0211par0560	Mr. Secretary, we've transferred funds, and we've asked for nothing else.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0208par0561	Members of parliament, the amendment proposals of Article 162, which regulates the Constitution's budget talks, are also read and voted on without discussion. I am simply reading the grounds for the motion: Under the minimum wage bases, employees are being paid under the poverty and hunger limit, with minimum income tax from minimum-payers during the 2012 Central Management Budget Act in effect, and the loss of income is expected to be covered by a backup grant. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We submit and propose that the following row be added to the 5th article (E) of the current "2012 Year Centre Management Budget Bill." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends 70. 12:01.31 in the Finance Ministry Budget. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. From 1 allowance, the village chiefs and the town's and the town's mayors receive monthly allowances for a net minimum wage. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0212par0571	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0208par0572	Government?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0213par0573	Mr. President, we think it's against the Constitution, we can't agree.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0208par0574	I'm reading the reason: The monthly fees for the work of the village chiefs and the town and the village chiefs are expected to be increased in order to compensate for their intensive work and to be covered by the "refundary allowance" of subsidies in the Finance Ministry Budget. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We submit and propose that the following row be added to the 5th article (E) of the current "2012 Year Centre Management Budget Bill." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends "70. The repairs and renovation costs of Cem's homes are 12:01.31 in the Finance Ministry Budget. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. It will be paid by saving funds from six of its structures to the Chairman of Religious Affairs." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0214par0584	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0208par0585	Government?
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0215par0586	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0216par0587	Motive.
tbmm-2011-12-15sit04spe0208par0588	I'm reading the reason: The budget for the Ministry of Finance budget, which ensures that repairs costs can be covered from the Ministry of Religious Affairs budget, is envisioned for transfers from the backup budget. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the Fifth Amendment to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, today's talks have been completed according to our schedule. According to the programme, it is Friday (December 16, 2011) 11 p.m. to discuss and vote on the unvoted substances of the 2012 Central Management Budget Bill. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
