tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 2nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, this is the first time I've been on this stand today. I hope that in time, we will conduct each other with respect to each other so that we can make full use of our time and fulfill the right to a righteous word. Besides, I think we can agree on a fair criticism and a clear way of speaking with the answer. I now declare that I will be sensitive to the times stated in the Civil Code, and I expect the same sensitivity from our friends. Members of parliament, according to our Constitution, MPs must take an oath before they begin their duties. I now call Mr. Bengi Yildiz, the Batman MP who has not sworn an oath, to the stand. Here you go, Mr. Star. [[Batman MP Bengi Yıldız has sworn in]] Thank you. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Giresun MP Adam Tastü (DOKAP) who asked for a comment on the East Black Sea Project (DOKAP). Here you go, Mr. Dessert. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your speech time is five minutes.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0002par0021	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the East Black Sea Development Project and the establishment of the Regional Development Administration, whose short name is DOCAP. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, at the very beginning of my words, I wish that the year of the Second Amendment of the 24th term, the year of our country and our nation's good fortune, and that all legislature activities, especially the new constitution, should be the result of further strengthening our country's democracy. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the founder of the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration, were carried out by our government on August 8, 2011, under Resolution 649. According to this, the DOKAP Regional Development Administration will operate in a manner that will ensure its legal personality and the ministry of development. The establishment of the Eastern Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration is crucial to both the Black Sea region and our country. This project will contribute economic, social and culturally to our country, along with regional development, which will ensure the development of the region. Turkey is among the developing economies at the head of countries that attract investors. Particularly in recent years, growth rates have increased this attention despite global economic crises. Turkey's economy today has become much stronger against domestic and external economic turmoil. Our country's basic economic indicators, the rise in national revenues and the rise in prosperity are the consequences of this stability. The development of universal standards in the areas of democracy, law state, human rights, health, food safety, consumer rights, competition, institutional development and environmental protection, with social and political advancements, has moved our country to the top of the world league. Precious lawmakers, along with economic growth, have taken very important steps to support regional development in parallel with developments around the world, not content with the fulfillment of social development. As it is known, the East Anatolia Project and the Conconian Plain Project Development Administrations had already been established. In addition, under the law of authority, we have provided the establishment of the DOCAP Regional Development Administration with a new decree. Again, with this Decision, the East Anatolia Project and the Conconian Plain Project Development Administrations' job descriptions and structures have been strengthened. In this way, these three administrations have been restored to a standard status, mission description and organization structure. The main function of these administrations will be to address investments aimed at development from a total perspective in the cities in the field of duty, within the framework of an action plan, determine their priorities and accelerate them. According to this, development administrations will work closely with development agencies and the Ministry of Development in their regions. They will also help prepare investment projects as well as study and research, which will strengthen co-ordination in the implementation with their action plans, allow public investments to be carried out more efficiently and faster. Our provinces under the DOC. Giresun, Artvin, Bayburt, Silver House, Army, Rize, Samsun, and Tripoli. The centre is our province of Giresun. The DOCAP Administration and others are established for five years. If necessary, the Council of Ministers will be able to extend its mandate to five years. A total of 100 people, most of whom are experts, will be employed. Mr. President, there are three basic planning works conducted so far in the East Black Sea: the Eastern Black Sea Regional Development Plan, the East Black Sea Tourism Master Plan, the Eastern Black Sea Regional Plan. The goal of the Eastern Black Sea Regional Development Plan is to increase the average income level and improve internal revenue distribution, internal integration...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0003par0033	Dear Dessert, thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0002par0034	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0003par0035	We're not giving you an extension, sir, please...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0002par0036	I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0003par0038	Congressmans, our Minister of Development, Cevdet Yilmaz, wanted to respond to the non-responsibility speech. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your speech time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0004par0042	Mr. President, I'm here to respond to a statement outside the agenda regarding the establishment of the East Black Sea Regional Development Administration. On this occasion, I salute you all. I wish our new legislature, our coven, our country's good fortune. Our esteemed congressman, Mr. Adem Dessert, couldn't finish his speech, but he gave a certain amount of detail. I will endeavor to convey our view of the Eastern Black Sea and regional development. First of all, I want to stress that our country is growing fast, growing. Our national income, $230 billion in 2002, reached $740 billion last year. In the same way, our income per capita exceeds the $3,500 levels, despite the global crisis, which has affected many countries around the world. Of course, we want to continue this process. We have a vision of 2023. In 2023, we predict that our national income exceeds $2 trillion, and our per capita income exceeds $25,000, along with the $500 billion export target and many other sub-projects. As we continue with all these efforts, we have to activate the potential of all parts of our country. We can't achieve our vision of 2023 by only activating the potential of certain regions, certain provinces. So our view, our view of regional development, is based on new concepts of regional development. In regional development, we don't anticipate the transfer of funds to some poor areas. It's just part of the job. Our point of view is that we see potentials that haven't been used or used enough in all our regions. We think we need to move those potentials in every province, every region, every region. On the one hand, we are rapidly expanding our country, developing it, and on the other hand, we are predicting reducing the gaps between regions, and we perceive these two targets as complementary targets. In the past, these two targets have been somewhat perceived as separate. It's as if if we were to fund regional development, we'd reduce the development of the country a little bit. There were debates at certain times, but now that we've left these discussions behind, our view of the region -- that's the way it is. We see the areas below average as an opportunity, not as a burden, and we think we can make serious contributions to our country's overall development by considering the potential there. Otherwise we won't be able to make our 2023 vision come true. In this framework, major steps have been taken in regional policy during the time of our governments. It's been discussed a lot in the past. If you look at all the plans, make sure that the regional differences are reduced, that the regional development is important. The ideas, ideas, policies have been expressed, but it is clear that there has not been much success here in the past. Unfortunately, the difference in development between regions in Turkey is much higher when compared with Europe. So we've seen that our past policies can't be effective enough. ▪ Why have we not been successful in our assessments and analysis of the past? We have learned some lessons by asking the question. One of them is that we've drawn up regional policies in the past, but they're more on paper. Why is it on paper? There was not enough institutionalization. There's a plan, but there's not enough progress in terms of institutional mechanisms that will adopt this plan, follow this plan, implement it. On the other hand, when we look at the shortcomings of the past, the plan was prepared, but they were not transformed into action plans. The concrete, the calendar, the roles of institutions are being made clear, and above all, the financing has not been defined by the plans of the past. But in the time of our governments, we took a different approach, and we did some important innovations in both institutionalization and financing and action plan. One of them is development agencies. We've now institutionalized our development agencies, including eighty-eight counties in the twenty-six districts. With our development agencies, the public sector, private sector, civil society, local governments are always meeting on a platform, so we've established a mechanism that allows all local dynamics to meet on a platform and act in common with the development of that region. In addition, we also created new regional structures as public authority, especially for areas with less income than average, which need to grow faster than the average in Turkey. Before, you know, there was just the GAP Regional Development Administration, in that sense. With the latest arrangements, we've added three more regional development administrations. One is the Eastern Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration, DAP Regional Development Administration. It's a regional development administration in Erzurum, where we consider our 14 provinces to be central. The second is our Regional Development Administration, called the "KOP" Project of the Plains of the Conium. And this is a region development administration that we've established in four counties, and it's based on the province of Iconia. The third is the chairman of the District Development Administration of the Eastern Black Sea region, which Adam Tasty Bey, our esteemed Regent, has just spoken of. This is a district development administration of eight counties. In this way, we aim to continue our East Black Sea region in a more systematic way, based on action plans, in a more sustainable way, on the momentum, the momentum, the acceleration of development that our region has actually achieved recently. And the importance of our view of this region and the development of this region is actually a concrete indication of the structure we're building. We've established new units at the central level. The event we call regional development is a policy that needs to be coordinated well both locally and at the centre, a horizontal policy that includes many institutions, many activities, a policy that needs to be addressed in a holistic way. In this regard, along with the final decree, we have created new structures in the center. One of them is that we have established the High Council for Regional Development, headed by our Prime Minister. We've envisioned a structure with all the ministers involved, all the ministers responsible for regional development in the first degree. Under it, we have envisioned a structure called the Regional Development Committee, called Ankara, at the level of undersecretary at the centre, with the undersecretary of all concerned institutions. So, we've established a framework that strengthens regional development at the central level, and we're going to make it work in the coming period. It's a subject we've always felt lacking, and the means to approach regional development with a national policy will be these new institutional structures, hopefully. The East Black Sea Area Project (DOKAP) is a project that has been actually mentioned under various names so far. I'd like to explain them to you so there's no confusion in the concept. There are three basic documents under the name "DOKAP" right now: First, there is a DOCAP project that the State Planning Agency launched in 1998 and completed in 2000. This was a joint project with the Japanese technical co-operation agency JICA. Artvin, Bayburt, Giresun, Silver Hall, Army, Rize and Tripoli were a project that covered our provinces, and there were various priorities, various analyses, various technical studies in terms of economic development, social development, spatial regulation. This plan was described as 2001-05, 2006-2010, 2010-2020. But here we see that this project with the Japanese has not been fully implemented. There were some flaws in this plan, the local turnout was not enough, so the local level did not provide the desired amount of ownership. On the other hand, when you look at it, its financing, some calendars, etcetera, has not been made as concrete as we'd hoped. So, this plan has partially come to life, but this DOCAP plan, the plan with the Japanese, has not been as effective as we'd hoped. Another study, which has begun recently and has actually developed a DOCAP study with some local initiatives, which is the East Black Sea Tourism Master Plan. Here, the governorships of our provinces of the Army, Giresun, the Silver House, Rize and Tripoli have developed an initiative. In the East Black Sea in particular, you can all appreciate that there is a very strong potential for tourism, especially with the potential for crossbow tourism, and a study has begun by targeting it. Then, our Ministry of Culture and Tourism, our Ministry of Development, and a variety of meetings were conducted to make it more holistic, more systematic. These studies are still being conducted. The goal of these studies, particularly, is to target road investments, especially road investments by footing; to encourage private sector investments in this sense; to support studies such as restoration, environmental arrangement and development plan revision; to identify and study tourism centres; to promote promotion; to perform promotions; and we are currently working on a technical level. So, this is the work under the name of the second DOCAP. Third, there's an East Black Sea regional plan set up by the East Black Sea Development Agency that we've established in our East Black Sea region. This is a plan that the development agency has done again, with local actors, together, in particular, which aims to develop SMEs, businesses; it is also a plan that predicts a strong and competitive economic structure in its focus; it predicts social development, integration; infrastructure, sustainability, environmental issues. In this sense, our development agency has started some grant programmes, especially in terms of tourism infrastructure, which has started various education, technical studies, research, and so on. So our new administration today is in your hands right now, taking three documents from the past. We're going to review these, we're going to benefit from all of these, but we're going to filter out all of these plans, and we're going to come up with a new action plan, especially in terms of public investments, public activities, a new plan to clear up the responsibilities for our East Black Sea region, to clear up the calendar, to address the financing issues in a more detailed way, hopefully. Of course, we have to go one step at a time here. First of all, we're going to institutionalize our development administration in this region. Here, we're going to run various assignments, recruitment, etcetera, this kind of work, this kind of study, like their education. Our first step will be to ensure institutionalization. In that sense, we're still preparing. The next step, the next step right after that, using the previous plan and work, as I've just mentioned, is to prepare, clarify our plan of action. We're not going to sit here and do the action plan from Ankara. We will surely perform our work with the participation of all interested actors at the local level, both from the central level and from the local level. As we look at it, there are significant developments in our East Black Sea region. On the one hand, the end of the coast road, and what it brings is a new geography, a new infrastructure, you know, the Army, huge investments that will serve our provinces of Giresun, airport investments. When you look at it again, in total investments, the East Black Sea, our DOKAP region gets a very serious share of our public investments, 9.6 per cent. Its share in public investments -- of course, the share of public investments that we can divide -- is at 9.6 percent. It's a serious public investment. FROM THE CYDES, we have again transferred very serious resources from this region. WHEN you look at KYODES (KİDES) in 2005-2011, we have passed on 7.4 billion Turkish dollars in various times. So here we have 1.8 billion Turkish dollars, which we have transferred to our DOCAP region, which is about 24 per cent of the total KCYDES grant, or even a little over 24 per cent, which we have divided into our DOCAP region again. We have also earmarked more than 70 million Turkish liras for our development agency over the past two years in order to run various programmes. And hopefully, we'll continue this next semester. Our idea of regional development is to assess the public sector and the private sector in the process of development in a wholety. On the one hand, as the public completes our infrastructure investments, we will continue to encourage the private sector specifically in our cities, on our plateaus, in the rural area, on the other hand. You know, in priority sectors, our Eastern Black Sea District is also a region in which we strongly encourage private sector investments as part of the 4th district. In the coming period, our new system of incentives will continue to benefit from these areas. On the other hand, with public investments and private investments, hopefully our region will be able to increase its momentum to a much higher level, which will contribute more to the well-being, happiness of our people in the region, as well as to our country's development, development, and development. We know there's been a lot of migration in the past. It's a region that's really migrated significantly, migrated to a lot of different parts of Turkey, transferred human resources. Today, when you look at unemployment numbers, it's very low. His unemployment in 2010 ranges from 11.9 in Turkey to 4.7 to 7.8 in the provinces in our region. There's a high level of participation in the labor force, but we also know that the young population has migrated significantly in the past. Hopefully, our new development efforts are also aimed at maintaining these numbers of unemployment and providing more jobs for our people, making sure that the region is not migrating, but increasingly migrating. I hereby ask that the new year of our Parliament be blessed, that important laws in the development of our country, in the development of our country, may be carried out, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0005par0064	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. The second unregistered statement belongs to Ardahan MP Ensar Öğüt. Here you go, Mr. Reminder.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0006par0069	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all with the hope that the new era will bring peace and happiness to our country. Dear friends, a week ago the flood came, and the flood overtook Rize, and two days ago the snow fell on the high places of Kars, Ardahan, Erzurum, Iğdır, and Ağrı. And it came to pass, when they entered into the sea, that our cars stayed in the mount Ilgar of Posof, and stayed in the mount Sakaryah of Shavshat. This area has a great deal of suffering. In fact, I don't understand the government's conduct to the top cities of development until now. I'm here to ask you, and I'm here to write down these speeches, and I'm waiting for the ministers to take them from the report and talk to them and do their own work, and the ministers are here. The developing provinces are on the border, eight months under the snow. What in God's name has been done so far? Look, I'll tell you this: natural gas passes through Ardahan, two lines of natural gas, we heat Turkey, it doesn't give us natural gas. I'm complaining, my friend. Sixty-nine provinces are heated by natural gas passing through us, both passing through us from Iran and coming from Azerbaijan. I mean, can you imagine Ardahan, in the 21st century, burning Ardahan province in Turkey in the European Union, friends, warming up with turds. What a shame!
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0007par0072	Cut the gas! Cut the gas!
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0006par0073	Now, it's not him, it's the imports, the animals, so we can't find turds because we don't have the goods. Now, we're short on time, but let me tell you, I have suggestions for the development of that area: Ardahan University was founded, thank you, but we have a good chancellor, and very well, we've laid the groundwork, thank you. Ardahan University founded the Kafkasian University Association, 21 universities are members of our unit. We need to open up to Caucasus. We don't expect anything from you. I beg you, open the gate of Aktaş. Do you know why the Whitestone Gate is important? Friends, I went to Azerbaijan with Mr. Koksal Toptan, our Parliament Speaker, and then with Mr. Abdullah Gül Bey, our President. In both, I told President Azerbaijan İl İl İll Ilk Aliyev. He said, "Sir, there is no road between Turkey and Azerbaijan, but we can open this road." He said, "How?" From Zagatala district of Azerbaijan, there is an hour and a half to Aktaş Gate. If you do, there will be a land road between Turkey and Azerbaijan, where both Turkey and Azerbaijan will be relieved, both Armenia and Azerbaijan, because the two of them will not impose an east gate. When this road was built by Georgia, there are already doors from the inside of Georgia into Armenia, where our Armenian citizens can come, there is no problem. • The President of Azerbaijan -- thank you Mr. Isol Aliyev (real friend of Turkey) immediately called the road minister, instructed him, and made the way for the money he was going to buy for natural gas from Georgia. Now look, that road's been done, it's over. Buildings are finished on the Georgia side, but even though the buildings on our side have been finished for nearly 20 years... look, as a state, officially open, the Aktaş Gate is closed, but it's actually closed. The Azerbaijan road to Georgia is clear. Azerbaijan made the way, thank you. The road is clear, our side is closed. I went to Mr. Printer, and I said, like this. He's got my point. We'll put him in the program at 2012, and we'll open the Aktaş Capaı. If we open the door, we open up to the Turkish republics, we open up to the Caucasus, our ties to Azerbaijan are tighter, our ties to Georgia are tighter, and the students who come to our university will come easier. In that respect, I offer all of you respect for the opening of the Crazy Aktaş Gate and investing in the region for our region's development.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0008par0079	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. The third non-responsibility statement belongs to Mr Mehmet Şandir (Muhammad) MP Mersin demanding the opening of the new legislature of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0009par0084	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, on behalf of myself and my group, I salute your grand delegation. After a hundred and twelve days, the second year of the 24th term begins today, after a hundred and twelve days since the election. That's why I got my word. Since I know that our parliament, our General Assembly, our commissions will be doing very important work at this time, working on very important agendas for our country and our nation's future, on behalf of myself and my group, I wish our Parliament, our political parties, our political group administrators and you, our members of parliament, good work, successful work. My dear President, you've been entrusted with a very important task, and I wish you all the best. I hope, in this time of our country's important processes, our House will be ruled in a way that will truly create a common mind under your rule. The solutions that are expected of us here can be an effective, useful work in establishing the laws necessary for solutions. I care about that. We have friends here who have been in Congress for a very long time. I say with their experience that if the work of the General Assembly, the commission work is really well organized, there is a good basis for reconciliation, a basis for dialogue, a law that can contribute to solving problems. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we're building a law here to solve problems. Therefore, we are obliged to work together in an open, open, dialogueal and tolerant approach to each other as we perform this task that we are obliged to build together. On behalf of myself and my group at this first meeting of this year's legislation, I would like to present to you both the two things that I wish you, on behalf of the National Party for Action, to wish you success and to wish you a good working environment: Dear lawmakers, we need to have an approach here, in order to be the state of law, which has absorbed the rule of law, which is a necessity to remain within the law. Our most important common denominator is law. With respect for the rule of law, we need to establish a study in accordance with the Civil Code and the Constitution. Second, we must do our duty to be chosen. In particular, Mr. Prime Minister, I'd like to make it clear that we have to get back to the agenda of our country and our people. Today, Turkey is experiencing a period that is literally writhing over the expectations of communities with many problems and waiting for a solution from us. We have to understand our responsibility to the farmers, to the workers, to the pensioners, to the communities that are seeking a solution from this House. So, at this first meeting today -- we have a lot to talk about later -- but I have to say in particular: look, today they announced that the group meetings will be given from Parliament television, but then whoever interfered -- because the Deputy Prime Minister is here -- were prevented from giving the group talks from the House TV, TRT TV. What are we afraid of? Under the siege of what fears do we silence politics with its power and opposition? First, it needs to be known that a parliament that cannot uphold its own law, that a policy will have no opportunity to protect the country's law, that it will not be able to answer the nation's expectations. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I also ask that this be taken into consideration and that this decision be reconsidered.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0010par0093	Thank you, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0009par0094	Mr. President, I'd like you to reconsider your decision not to give me this extension.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0011par0095	Mr. President, I need an additional minute.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0010par0096	Next time I'll ask you, Mr. Member, please...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0011par0097	No need to ask.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0010par0098	Please, I said it at the beginning, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0011par0099	You can't interfere like that, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0010par0100	Please, sit down.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0011par0101	One minute here.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0010par0102	Five minutes, five minutes. Please sit down. Thank you, Mr. Shandir. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Off-the-book talk is over. Let's move on to the agenda.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0012par0107	Mr. Secret, it was a grandmother. It was a minute to wrap it up, Mr. Strict.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0010par0108	Sir, I told you in the beginning, the House has a decision before.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0012par0109	But people need to get it together.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0010par0110	I apologize. I'm sorry, please...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0012par0111	People need to tidy up, Mr. Solid.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0013par0112	The House has no such decision.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0010par0113	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0013par0114	No, I don't.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0014par0115	Why, sir? It's not a decision.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0013par0116	Show us where the House decides.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0015par0117	Sir, I'll show you later if you want. The House has a decision, so it's decided here.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0013par0118	What does the House have to say about this, sir?
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0015par0119	Now look, I said I'd give you five minutes.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0013par0120	Sir, what decision does the House have, if you'd be so kind as to allow the MPs...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0015par0121	One second, one second, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0013par0122	On what grounds do you decide?
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0016par0123	He's made a decision before, there's a decision before.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0017par0124	Mr. President, then why are you giving me five minutes? Give me three. Don't promise...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0018par0125	I said that I would observe the days of the Law. Same to everyone. Sorry, it's a matter of time. And we're wasting time with these arguments. So let's follow the Civil Code. If it's not fair, object. Let's go with justice.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0019par0126	Mr. President, this is the first time you've appointed such an application!
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0017par0127	Where's the app?
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0018par0128	Yes, sir, the presidency has its presentations to the General Assembly, and I'm having it read:
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0020par0129	And then you won't promise the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0018par0130	I'll send it now, and I'll send the decision.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0020par0131	This is the House of Equals.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0018par0132	Wait a second... During the last legislature, I said I would continue to implement the procedure debate in the budget talks, which was first implemented in the first 20/12/2010 and then launched in the 37/10th Union, in which I would not be given additional time to talks that had been voted out and approved, and I would continue to run the Joints of the General Assembly. History, it's a decision with his number. [[Noises in CHP and MHP rows]] Please, sir, please... The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will have it read and presented to your knowledge: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The 33620th Law on Organising Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey According to the article, the Turkish-EU Parliamentary Commission for Karma, Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Parliamentary Assembly for European Security and Co-operation, Parliamentary Union for Parliamentary Assembly, Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, Asia Parliamentary Assembly and the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly for the Mediterranean, the same law is free to form groups to represent the Grand Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the clause, the names of members who are eligible for the Presidential Court's decision are presented to the information of the General Assembly. Turkey-EU Karma Parliamentary Commission Co-Chair [[Turkey-EU KPK]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe [[AKPM]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] [[Sakarya]] NATO Parliamentary Assembly [[NATO PA]] [[Antalya]] European Security and Co-operation Agency Parliamentary Assembly [[İzmir]] [[Karabük]] [[Inconceived]] Inter- Parliamentary Union (PAB) Turkish Group [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] The Union for the Mediterranean Parliament Assembly (AIBPA) Turkish Group [[İstanbul]] Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly (ECH PA) Turkish Group [[Antalya]] Asia Parlamenter Assembly (ASYA PA) Turkish Group [[Ankara]] Members of parliament, you have been briefed on the thesis of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Members of parliament, Diyarbakır Chief Public Prosecutor's Office has written 25/08/2011 and 2011/1-84-555--3 on Diyarbakır MP Nursel Aydoğan. In the High Criminal Court, the 2011/351 main case has been filed and carried out by the People's Court; Erzurum 2. In accordance with the 19/02/2011 date and 2011/141 file of the Heavy Penal Court, Mardin MP Ahmet Türk has continued to be tried with the main case file 2011/141; Diyarbakır 7. With the Supreme Criminal Court's 26/08/2011 date and 2011/64 file, Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan was reported on the basis of the second joke of Article 83 of the Constitution, where the public case was filed with the main case 2011/64. For your information.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0021par0203	Mr. President, briefings on the presentations to the House have been wronged as a presidential saving. There are 550 lawmakers here, all of which should be presented here, whatever lawsuits have been filed against 550 MPs, but this is where information is being read that the Peace and Democracy Party in particular is being filed against the candidates of our Labour, Democracy and Freedom Bloc. For whomever is opened for fraud, opened for corruption, opened for theft, opened for shamelessness, why should the Parliamentary Presidency inform all MPs equally? We don't accept this discrimination. We don't accept this discrimination from day one. There's a law in the Constitution, there's immunity, there's a thing called parliamentary; there's law, there's humanity. (Applause from BDP rows) So what's this? Why would the first day of office do that, Mr. President? Why would you do that on your first day? That won't happen, we won't accept it. I'm being very clear, we don't accept this savings. I'm opening a legal debate, sir, according to the Civil Code. The Speaker will take back this presentation.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0018par0205	First of all, if you'll excuse me, let me explain this app, and you can ask for it again.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0021par0206	No, sir, look, there's a pattern.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0018par0207	Wait a minute, you're...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0021par0208	There's no Justice Commission, there's no Karma Commission...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0018par0209	One second, sir, one second...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0021par0210	...the Constitutional Commission is not formed, it's not discussed on the commission, and you're coming to the Speakership, and you're downloading it down here and informing it. Why aren't they being sued for economic tender fraud, and why aren't they being presented for theft? I don't know, Mr. Ahmet has made a speech somewhere in Turkey. He's a politician, my friends. If you're gonna put up with this... if we can't talk in this House, let's be clear, this is wrong from day one...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0018par0211	Mr. Kaplan, sit down for a second, and I'll explain, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0021par0212	This needs to be taken back, there's no lamma cumi.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0018par0213	Okay, have a seat, sir, and I'll explain why it's done this way. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0021par0215	Mr. President, on what charge are you going to explain this?
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0018par0216	Sit down, please, sit down. You've spoken, please sit down.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0021par0217	But what does the special duty court say...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0018par0218	But let me explain why it hasn't been implemented. Have a seat. Members of parliament, the second clause of Article 83 of the Constitution states that the state of crime which requires severe punishment is outside the framework of Article 14 of the Constitution, according to the fact that the investigation has been launched before the election.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0022par0221	Yes, Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0018par0222	...and, in this case, the state of authority must immediately and directly report the situation to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0022par0223	Yes, Mr. President, it's good...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0018par0224	Wait a second. In accordance with this sentence, the articles from the courts have been submitted to the General Assembly's information so far. Our presidency is in accordance with the Constitution. That's all there is to it.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0022par0226	Mr. President, it's beautiful! Look, the Constitution was changed in 14 2001. Look, Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0018par0227	Yeah.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0022par0228	The Constitution 14 changed in 2001. The last joke of the 14th article, I read: "The law is the law of those who act contrary to these provisions. For ten years, this law has not been passed. You can't enforce the law that doesn't exist. Guys, I'm telling you this, you can't enforce the law that doesn't come out. (Applause from BDP rows) The final joke of the 14th article...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0018par0229	No, no. Now, please...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0022par0230	There hasn't been a law in this House in ten years.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0018par0231	Please...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0022par0232	Is there a Parliamentary republican history with 10 arrested MPs? There are eight arrested MPs, the deputyship of Hatip Dicle has fallen. Can you show me an example? What's it gonna be, fellas?
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0018par0233	Mr. Kaplan, the Constitution has been passed. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0022par0235	The final joke of the 14th article...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0018par0236	There's nothing to be done.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0022par0237	You will return it, Mr. President, you will send it back.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0018par0238	Please... please... There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation. I'll have them read it separately and present it to you.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0022par0240	Mr. President, we'll discuss it. The final joke of the 14th article...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0018par0241	Have a seat, please.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0022par0242	Do it or do it! Don't be cruel to us, we don't want persecution. I'm being very clear.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0018par0243	Please sit down. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Executives of Turkey's leading sports clubs and some athletes have been detained and arrested and sent to prison under the charges of fraud. The operations conducted in this framework were launched on 3 July 2011, and it is clear that operations that are still under way today will continue in an open process. It is vital and necessary for the development of Turkish sports and for its international success. However, the timing, method and development of the fraud investigation raises doubts that there may also be different political initiatives and goals, as well as the collapse of a fraud organisation. In particular, has there been a conspiracy against Prime Minister Erdogan, before the June 12th elections? Every phase of the fraud operations has been served to press organs in violation of universal principles and legal legislation, with some of our sports clubs and sportsmen being declared guilty in public without an investigation and without prepared indictment. Penal Code 157. The principle of secrecy of the investigation has been established and the framework of this principle is undisputed in the Department of Justice's Authority and Responsibility of the Justice Corps and the Secret of Investigation District 98. 138 of the Constitution in the General Assembly. No one can be considered guilty until the sentence of the charge is constant. The European Convention on Human Rights (Land of Rights) has a right to a fair trial. Everyone charged with a crime is not guilty until his guilt is legally fixed. The principle of the secrecy of the investigation is the inextricable element of the causality of innocence. However, as part of the fraud operation, this principle has been systematically violated, its centuries-old sports clubs, sports executives, athletes have been declared guilty to the public. The breaches regarding the secrecy of the investigation are due to the slightst omission of political power, and it is not possible for these violations to continue systematically without the protection of political power. In addition to the violation of the principle of innocence, which is one of the most fundamental principles of criminal law, it is clear that industrial football has brought down its brand value, the loss of investors of many public sports clubs, and, most importantly, outside interference in the administration of autonomous TFF, and the outcome of political material. In this regard, it is imperative that the measures necessary to prevent Turkish football from becoming public and internationally difficult are determined and carried out immediately. In addition to all of this, the oppressive and formalizing approaches of political authorities in the Federation elections would obviously lead Turkish sports to an outdated position due to the loss of autonomy. Therefore, it is vital that the measures necessary for the removal of sports from the influence of political powers are determined. Twenty-two on the subject. The Parliamentary Research Commission, established in the period and its report on Turkey's General Assembly, which has been discussed by the TBM General Assembly, considers the interventions that have led to the loss of the autonomy of the federations, corruption and the loss of the reputation of sports and athletes, and proposes the implementation of the Constitution, 9th and 1 0th Articles of the Constitution, and 10th Amendment under the purview of the Constitution, in order to determine the measures that should be taken in its report and the need of their proposals. [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Eskişehir]] [[İzmir]] 5) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] 7) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Tunceli]] [[Inconceived]] [[Ardahan]] [[Aydın]] [[Aydın]] 13) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] 18) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adıyaman]] 21) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] 22) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Army]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Constitution is 98 pearls and 104ths and 105ths of the Constitution in Turkey, with the aim of investigating the Environmental Pollution and Possible Threats of Pollution caused by Mining by the Use of Cyanide and Similar Chemical Matters. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose the opening of Parliamentary Research. With all due respect. [[İzmir]] 2) Reza Mahmoud Türmen [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] 6) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] 12) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] 17) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Sinop]] 21) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] 24) Birgül Ayman Güler [[İzmir]] On May 7, 2011, the collapse of one of the dams in the cyanide waste dam of a silver-made facility owned by the Silver Ash in Habbitali district of Kütahya district of Kütahya Province revealed a great danger of environmental pollution. The dam, capable of 25 million cubic metres of waste, contains 15 million cubic cubic metres of waste cyanide, and is claimed to contain 1,000 milligrams of cyanide per liter. Experts say that 8mg of cyanide is found in a liter of water, causing poisoning and fatal consequences when 20mg is found. In the event of total collapse of the waste pools, it is said that a great environmental disaster will occur in Badger Tea, especially around the facility, and in the Sakarya River, and the effects of pollution that will reach the Black Sea will last for centuries, and the region will turn into a desert. Although the facility has recently tripled its production capacity, claims that it has not provided sufficient capacity in the waste disposal system are considered the most important reason for the danger. On the other hand, a 5.9 - magnitude earthquake in Kütahya, an earthquake site, has caused great concern. Because even because of the extreme rains, this facility, which has been destroyed by cyanide-based waste-water sets, raises very serious and worrying questions about what will happen to such massive earthquakes. At this level of danger, the Ministry of Environment and Forestry, the Ministry of Health, the Governorate of Kütahya, and the Eti Silver A. Public opinion is not satisfied with the statement that there is no constant evidence that threatens human health and natural life and that necessary measures are being taken. As a matter of fact, the Environmental Engineers' Room indicates that the drinking water in the region was sampled on May 12th and was analyzed in an acretized laboratory, according to analysis, the accident took place at 5. On the day of the cyanide spill, the bridgeren village, four and a half kilometers away, announced that there was 40 percent more cyanide than the limits allowed in drinking water to reach water sources. This analysis was said to have been carried out by the Ministry of Environment and Forestry and the Turkish Accreditation Agency in Ankara, while the Kütahya People's Health Laboratory (Kütahya) where the Kütahya People's Health Laboratory (Kütahya) had been analysed for underground water analysis has been declared unacred in order to measure cyanide, and therefore the measurements are not reliable. On June 13, 2011, seven people from the village of Dulkadir were taken to the hospital on suspicion of cyanide poisoning, and one of the seven citizens was certified with a hospital report at the Kütahya Çelebi Hospital. Meanwhile, there has been a significant development in which the Health Laborers' Union took from Dulkadir village on 14 June 2011 and tested the drinking water from the Ministry of Health's Izmir Institute for Hüfzizshiha Directorate, and revealed that cyanide and arsenic rates are far above the permitted limit. No statement has been made from the Ministry of Health regarding this official report. Concerning NGOs and trade rooms are not allowed to study the facility, but there are no explanations from the ministries to cover questions, leaving the region's citizens among a vital dilemma, such as losing their bread or health. There are many questions and a big problem that need to be investigated and answered. The 17th Amendment. And 56. In this current situation, which clearly violates the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment with the right to maintain, maintain, and maintain and maintain its mental and mental existence, in order to examine all mining activities carried out in our country by similar methods, 98 and 104 and 105 of the Constitution. The opening of a Parliamentary Research is vitally important. KOP is an important project that will prevent drought and lack of watering in the inner Anatolian region, which will increase production to four to five percent under minimum conditions. KOP is a vital project for the Inner Anatolian region, and for the Inner Anatolian region. An integrated project, KOP, 59 and 60. It has been neglected during the time of governments. The Blue Tunnel Project, which is the most important foot in the KOP, costs $120m, has not yet concluded a period of more than eight years with the AKP's rulings. On the other hand, it is known that 12 projects under the KOP do not cover the north of Konya. With current projects, it will not be possible to water the northern region of Konya, or Selçuklu, Sarayön, Altınekin, Yunak, Kulu, Jahhanbeyli, Karapınar, Ereğli, Aksaray, Kamanhan, İlçı and Akşehir. In contrast, this region is the driest region in the region. It's also the largest area of land in the region. However, current KOP activity does not cover this area. In this regard, the KOP will have to be revised, and immediately. Instead of the Göksu reserve or source, this study is now expressed by experts who should be doing this work on the Infrared-Hirfanian. Given the fact that this route is 90-100km away from the Kulu-Cihanbeyli region, because of the developing technology, the project is well-equipped and is primarily known to have done certain studies in this direction; although it has been insisted on by us for 6-7 years, it is not acceptable for the government to remain insensitive to the issue. The implementation of this project, which is the equivalent of the GAP Project, is somehow blocked by certain focals. Or because of the current insensitivity, such impressions are being made. The government's insensitivity and indifference to the subject have no acceptable explanation. Why hasn't the project of resuscitation been implemented? Why is it not initiated in this direction? Is anyone uncomfortable with this project, which will increase the agricultural production of the region to four to five? Is it possible to implement the project with technical size? How much does the implementation of this project cost? These questions and matters must be cleared up. In order to determine the technical dimension of these issues through their experts at their location, the need for research on the project's revision and implementation, to be linked to the report, and thus to the government's obligation and responsibility; the reasons and measures that lead to neglect and responsibility in this matter, the Constitutional Court of 98th and TBMM Co-existence 104th and 105th. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose the opening of Parliamentary Research. [[Inconceived]] [[Tekirdağ]] 3) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[Sinop]] 5) Reza Mahmut Çürmen [[İzmir]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 7) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Mughle]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] 13) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 15) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] 16) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] 20) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] The topic referred to in the Research Proposal has agricultural production and employment dimensions. The technical dimension of the project's ability to implement is intended to investigate, and the result is the invitation of the Political Power to take office. In addition to the insensitivity and indifference of the political government, it will be appropriate and appropriate to investigate the issue through the TBMM, in a concrete effort to investigate the size of production and employment and address uncertainty on the issue. It has been presented to your knowledge. Members of parliament, the motions will take their place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to have it read and put to your votes: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Turkey's Grand National Assembly 4th Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of Turkey. Under the clause, the establishment of an inter-parliament friendship group between the Indian Parliament and the TBM is subject to the approval of the General Assembly. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Now, the Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'm going to have you read it and vote: The following proposals were approved by the General Assembly at a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Tuesday/10/2011. 1 - The appointment of the General Assembly from the meeting days to the audit issues of Tuesday (except the issues on which the Constitution has set deadlines), the separation of Wednesdays and Thursdays from law bill and proposals to other jobs from commissions, the discussion of verbal questions at the beginning of the meeting on Tuesdays and Wednesdays, the elections with the ballots and signs vote every day; 2 - The completion of business in the election section of the agenda following the President's presentations to the General Assembly on Tuesday/10/2011 (now) in the merger of the General Assembly, followed by the end of this merger, 3 - After the General Assembly's 6/10/2011 Joint with the General Assembly on Thursday, the meeting of oral question proposals for an hour and the completion of business in the election section of the agenda, the end of this merger, It's recommended. Mr. Lawmakers, the first word on the Council's proposal is Mr. Oktay Vural. Here you go, Mr. Vural. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your speech time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0023par0451	Thank you. Mr. President, first of all, this is the first time you've run it, and I wish you good luck. I hope we didn't button the first button on the shirt wrong. So, this is important. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to express my opinion and opinion on the Council of Counsellors, wishing that the year of legislation would be a blessing. Of course, one principle decision was, in fact, held today's meeting, and at this meeting, there was an opportunity to evaluate it with other group vice presidents. As you know, the Constitution has put Parliament in charge of both legislation and control. In this framework, our Civil Code yearns to control certain days in accordance with the Constitution. Because the most important power of lawmakers in law enforcement is the power of parliamentary lawmakers in parliamentary democracy to question the government: written question, verbal question, geneor, parliamentary research, parliamentary investigation. In fact, it's one of the duties of all lawmakers, but it's one of the most important tools for the opposition in particular. We're checking today, Tuesday, and Tuesday, Wednesday, one hour verbal question. Of course, my dear friends, we will spare these days, you'll see a lot of them, but we'll also bear witness to how, with the will of the majority, these Tuesdays have been removed from control. And there we will demonstrate our position as the National Movement Party on our ability to reduce our voice, our word, our ability to control. Yes, we will ask questions because the will that brings us, the will that brings you, wants us to use our will here in our own direction. In this regard, this must be taken out by the ruling party, the majority party, and should be careful to ensure that control activities constitute at least 30 per cent of Parliament's activities. You can destroy with your fingers, but my dear friends, democracy doesn't work that way. In that respect, my suggestion to the ruling party is that we make Tuesdays a day of inspection, we continue verbal questions. Don't deny this right. Let's talk about Turkey's problems here. Our people sent us. Yeah, well, if you're gonna do it, we're gonna have to consider what's done, what can't be done, but there's got to be an opportunity here for farmers, non-assigned teachers, to express the woes of the troubled citizens. Let the legislature have a pulse here. The verbal questions we're going to use on this. Unfortunately, in verbal questions, the government's process of answering these verbal questions takes a year or two. Next thing you know, the government says they're gonna answer 50 of the oral questions, a hundred of them. The congressman asked, asked about an incident two years ago, and two years later, he actually got off the agenda, but he answers. So to ensure that the government answers these verbal questions on time is one of the things we particularly want from the majority party. Answering in written questions is relatively high, but unfortunately, a significant portion of our written questions are eating the veto of Parliamentary President. They're sending it to me as personal or something, re-refundable. We're really subjectively denied the right to ask questions. Unfortunately, a significant part of the questions are not answered, so the question we're asking is another, but the ministers are doing it according to regulations. They avoid answering the question, saying, "It's important from time to time, I think 30 to 35 percent is published in unanswered papers. You're asking me a question, so I don't understand why a minister would prevent an entire government agency from answering that question. We'll ask questions, we'll have information, we'll do our politics. In this regard, it is necessary to ensure that the government responds to these written questions. He does have a right to information, but look, lawmakers don't answer questions they ask, and the nation's deputy is being interrupted. That's not understandable either. On the other hand, we, our lawmakers, will have proposed laws. Unfortunately, these law proposals are not on the table. Although there are law proposals, the commission does not assess them by combining them together, along with law proposals from the opposition. That's the wrong thing to do. Law proposals made by lawmakers in parliament should also be discussed, at least in the commissions. If you're going to refuse, do so, but unfortunately, the commissioner, resen, does not discuss the proposals with this authority. At times, unfortunately, these proposals made by our MPs are not discussed by combining them, even though they are relevant. As the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we have come from all over Asia Minor, my dear brothers and sisters. Of course, as power and opposition, our citizens have issued authority to all of us, but this Parliament is the parliament of the nation. We, all of us, represent this nation. In that sense, what is the citizen doing on this screen, here, right now? Parliament asks, "What is my MP doing? Is he coming or not? What is he talking about? It is important that the activities of a parliament be monitored by the public. The actions will be explained, those who can't do it will be questioned, but it is not right to restrict the publications of Turkey's Grand National Assembly Television in order to cut parliamentary activities from the citizens, and to impose a restrictions on the history of all practices so far. What are we afraid of? Where's the high-profile democracy, transparency, openness? There's none of this left. Why? Here, in Parliament, our talks are 20 minutes to parties under the Civil Code. If you restrict them here, you can have all the TV you want out there as a party horn, but we're not allowed to reach our citizens equally by taking advantage of the rights that we're equally benefiting from in Parliament. In this regard, it is absolutely necessary for a citizen to obtain information from the activities of parliament. Parliaments can't be broken, they mustn't be broken. The citizen needs to know which direction the votes are in, whether his pulse is beating here or not. In this regard, unfortunately, Parliament is now 14:00-19 of Parliament's activities during this new period. 00 Tuesdays, Wednesdays, on Thursdays, he put an old protocol into effect, but it wasn't like that until today. In this regard, Mr. Prime Minister, the parliamentary chair on Parliament TV is being transformed into a spectacle. I find it unfair to the Turkish Grand National Assembly to call lawmakers a show. The ruling party, of course, uses this chair in Parliament to use its word here in Parliament, not for the show. In that respect, there's a lot to talk about, the squares. The important thing is to talk about it in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, and the citizen wants to talk about it. In this regard, we won't even give the Prime Minister's group meetings. We view his initiative as an obligation to the legislation, and we certainly -- today -- to the Speaker of Parliament -- need to be resolved. (Applause from MHP and CHP rows) This is where it needs to be resolved, my dear friends. No, I mean, cutting a congressman off from his people in Parliament... what's going to happen? Let's have a closed session. Let's file a closed session motion every day and close Parliament! The powers are already in the Council of Ministers, with provisions under the rule of law. Then there's no need for an election. Let the election be made, let the Council of Ministers be determined, and then let's call off Parliament and be done with it. That's not gonna happen. In that sense, my dear friends, Parliament is the focus of public service, where Turkey's pulse is located. We need to get this pulse picked up by citizens and boost their confidence. When there is a gap between parliament and the public, trust in parliament and the political institution is diminishing. In this regard, my desire and desire is to strengthen lawmakers who are sensitive to their citizens and voters. Rather than strengthening the administration, which is sensitive to bureaucracy or some environments, it is more important that the MPs here are strong enough to give you the account. In parliamentary democracy, in this sense, these parliamentary channels are key to democracy and are the essence of the use of its civil rights. A citizen has chosen you as a deputy, and people are talking here, so let's keep it a secret from the public. The right to citizenship is hereby declared here. In this regard, it is necessary to transform the Parliamentary Television, which can produce a gap between the people and the Parliament, into the way that all Parliamental activities can be reflected. We'll talk more around here, of course. First of all, I made a promise that this year of life would be a blessing. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Hopefully, during the next term, I'd like to express to Mr. President that this is Parliament, or at least a parliamentary speaker, not the discipline of the Turkish nation, not the tradition of this Parliament. [[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] Therefore, I find it not right that you, the Turkish nation, should not be given the opportunity to act in accordance with its grandmothers, traditions... to thank, address, and end a moment's savings by a member of parliament. If you start to button up like this, the next term will go on with more mistakes. In that respect, I pay my respects to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0024par0469	Thank you, Mr. Vural. The second statement on the advisory board's proposal is of Mr. Akif Hamzacebi. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0025par0473	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish the new legislature of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and this year's good fortune to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and to our nation. I hope and wish that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will do its best to find a solution to the country's pending problems in a full sense of democracy. The Council of Counsellors' decision was just read. In addition to extracurricular talks every day, the advisory board has an hour of oral questions and their answers on Tuesdays and Wednesdays, and on Tuesday it will also be audit day, and there will be legislative activities on Wednesdays and Thursdays. Of course, there's one thing that isn't written here, as long as the Justice and Development Party keeps that promise. Let me tell you right now, the Justice and Development Party will not be loyal to this decision, with a majority understanding, it will be in Turkey's sense of constantly setting the agenda of the Grand National Assembly. There's a Constitution debate these days. The ruling party, Justice and Development Party, has visited opposition parties, a series of visits have been carried out in connection with a commission launched by the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and planned to establish its presidency. In the end, the purpose of these visits is to set up this commission, and let the community act on the path of a new Constitution or Constitutional change. In the new Constitution, or in the package of constitutional amendments -- the Justice and Development Party called it the package of the Constitutional Amendment, which he sent to our party, so I don't see any harm in naming it -- freedom is the priority of the Republican People's Party. The greater freedom of our people, and the greater power to intervene in this freedom of our people, is the constraint of the government's power in private. That's our move, but while we, the Republican People's Party, are on the road with a sense of freedom, the Justice and Development Party has an attitude that protects some freedoms that even the current Constitution of 1982 recognizes. He has an understanding that he sees them too much to the public, to the political parties, to the opposition voices. As we set out for the Constitution, it is in the Republic of Turkey to implement special courts that should not still be in a democracy. In order to make a constitution in accordance with the definition of the collective agreement, the will of the entire community must reflect on the constitutional process of construction. Starting with liberals, everyone defines the constitution as the collective agreement. This requires a working environment, a working system, to reflect the will of the people. The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's visit to political parties without a group in parliament, which are not represented, is very meaningful. Why? Yes, he doesn't have a group in Congress, but there's a people behind them who believe in him more or less, and their views are important in the process of constitutional construction. Again, there are those who are not represented in this House, we have citizens who don't go to the polls, but there are MPs who can't be in this parliament even though they've been elected. If the people's will is to seek a constitution in accordance with the definition of the collective agreement, all elected MPs must be present. Moving on... [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, today is our first day of work. Turkey's Grand National Assembly opened on Saturday, and today's first agenda activities began, but today is different from any other year. Today, the Turkish National Assembly TV does not release these publications. In the summer months...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0026par0479	He's giving it to me today.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0025par0480	He's not... he's giving it to you guys? He doesn't. I've been working on it all afternoon, and he won't give it to me. Why won't he give it to me? In the summer, the Prime Minister made a statement, saying: "This is not the way to broadcast Parliament TV. I'm instructing my members of the group to take care of it. The process suddenly took place as follows: TRT General Manager writes a letter to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on June 24th -- the article is here -- I'm going to cut off these publications. It says 1,400-19. I'm only going to reflect the activities between 00. It's an order, or rather, it's my decision, it's none of my business. It's an article written to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that offends the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In fact, Mr. President should turn it down. Mr. President gives an appropriate opinion on this, and on July 11th, the director-General of TRT says it is appropriate. He gives appropriate opinion. Well, isn't democracy about getting the opinion of political parties, the MPs represented here? So Mr. President is a kind person, and I don't mean to offend him, but look, Mr. Speaker, he's making a decision that political party groups -- or rather, the ruling party group -- are unaware of the opposition party groups. TRT is not entitled to write such an article. TRT is an institution that survives people's taxes. All our citizens pay 2% tax on electricity bills for TRT. He publishes on public taxes, but he has no right to hear from the People's Parliament, from the People's Assembly, and that right is denied him. The regime, where such power exists, is not called democracy, where you have an understanding that you want to hide the talks of your own country's Assembly from your people. It's not democracy, it's democracy, it's not democracy, it's a regime where opposition parties, opposition speakers, talks from their own group halls, group meeting halls, the General Assembly, they want to hide their speech from the public's eyes, their ears. We will set out for a new constitution, and a public tax-published institution will be prevented from projecting Turkish Radio Television Agency's Grand National Assembly activities. Protocol, law, et cetera, that's all part of the job, folks. The relevant law grants recognition to the Turkish Grand National Assembly on this issue. Whatever activities the parliament desires to publish, whatever hours it desires to publish, the TRT must broadcast accordingly. It was called the countries of the world. Then, Mr. Speaker, I will investigate the countries of the world. There's been a study of 30 countries. It has been seen that in all countries except Bulgaria, parliamentary activities, the General Assembly's work are being delivered to citizens uninterrupted, in fact, to audiences. Again, in all countries except one or two countries, these publications are also broadcast on tape, except for the regular working hours, which is live broadcasts. Again, all countries, except for a few countries, publish them online, and these publications are made by public broadcasting systems or independent parliamentary channels, except for a few countries. The world goes to Mersin, the Justice and Development Party goes the other way! A government that has an understanding of democracy, freedom, doesn't want to hide the work done here from the public's eyes, from the ears. It's not limited to that. Look, there's an extraordinary pressure on the Republican People's Party municipalities these days. Maltepe City Hall, Kadiköy City Hall... we'll see what other municipalities are next. I wonder: there are 2,950 municipalities in Turkey, 539 are Republican People's Party, 18 per cent. Mr. Secretary, I'm asking the government, how many percent of the Ministry of Interior inspectors, property inspectors are on Republican People's Party municipalities? Why don't we hear about an audit of the Justice and Development Party municipalities, and why aren't they in the press? Because power will not control its own municipalities in any way.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0027par0486	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0025par0487	Yeah, it's no use talking from now on, no one's gonna hear it. I end my words here, and I pay my respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0027par0490	Thank you. The third word on the recommendation of the Council of Counsellors is Sırrı Sakık. Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0028par0493	Mr. President, dear friends, I'd like to start by saying hello and greetings to all of you in the new year of life. Dear friends, now, just yesterday one. I'll leave it to your conscience to uphold the law between the peoples of a House here that does not bring justice to the ground. There's 35 MPs here, but there's 14 spots left! Now, how can a Parliament that can't run law in itself talk about freedom, democracy, law in this country? So you're doing whatever you can to keep the public quiet. From now on, we'll come with our group, we'll sit in on these commissions. It's either justice or it's our duty to expose you every day as long as you don't get justice in this matter.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0029par0496	Sit in the line of the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers is empty!
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0028par0497	Hopefully we'll get there, and we'll sit there. Second of all, why are you keeping the public quiet? You talk about freedom, you say there's nothing to hide from the public. So, you silence the House, the House's TV, the TRT 3. No air after seven o'clock, no bands today, no air. You created your own backyard, created your media, you're fine with that. What will the opposition party do, and what will other opposition parties do? He's going to swear to you? You're scared. Who are you afraid of? You fear the opposition, yes, the dynamic of the opposition, the Peace and Democracy Party. In fact, this practice is for the Peace and Democracy Party. Because at a meeting, at a meeting of regional governors in the region, the Interior Minister was also in a meeting, who, as a model deputy, told the Minister of Interior of the Peace and Democracy the MPs of the Peace Party. After that, it was the understanding that had eliminated a large part of the group, the Kurdish lawmakers in the region. If you want a model proxy, the Prime Minister was saying... look, the group of the Peace and Democracy Party... they're in public, they're selfless, they're taking care of the people's problems night and day, the only party in Parliament that has the problems of the most workers, the poor, the Kurds, the Turks, other peoples is the Peace and Democracy Party. That's why you're trying to keep the volume down. There's no point in being afraid. We're here to say that the king is naked, and we're going to say that. A prime minister, who has promised freedoms all over the world, who is committed to saving all countries, is in an understanding that he's trying to keep the public quiet as far back as he can in his own country. Now, see, if... from the leaders of the Middle East, from time to time, he says: "You must take lessons. " I mean, Hafiz Assad was like you, and Gaddafi was like you, and Mubarak was like you. They kept the public quiet. Now that you're here, if you keep the public quiet, you'll have to answer to the public. Dear friends, now, why has the Peace and Democracy Party boycotted Parliament for three months after the elections for a long time? Now, here's a reason why we were so right when the proceedings came up. So after the election, eight MPs were elected by the people's votes in the election. On our wall is a free and unconditional nation. The MPs of the people are in prison. You're gonna take this off or you're gonna get the people's deputies out of prison. (Applause from BDP and CHP rows) There's no other way. If sovereignty belongs to the unconditional, unconditional people, these MPs must be liberated immediately. You say we're going to open democratic channels. On the other hand, there's a lot of pressure on the BDP every day. Look, you've taken 123 of our executives into custody today. So far, you've arrested our mayors, our MPs, our city council members, our mayors and boroughs elected under Operation KCK. Who? The police and the judge at your disposal. Because you were caught red-handed. On his return from Macedonia, the Prime Minister said earlier that the judge was independent. Now he clearly explained to him where this order came from -- without need -- and we know that, yes, we often say: there are no perpetrators who investigate the same as the perpetrator and the perpetrators who did it. Now we know exactly where this warrant came from, and our people know who did it. How can you bring democracy to this country, to your inner peace in this country if you invite armed forces to the democratic ground and arrest representatives of the people who have never had a gun in their entire lives? On his trip abroad, Mr. President was saying to the armed forces: put down your weapons, return to the house. So, in today's operations, our mayors and districts, our council members, our mayors, have they found a weapon in their hands? We don't trust you. You have deceived these people for 90 years. Even if your name is changed, all parties have committed crimes against these people. Now, for him, for those words to be able to live, democratic channels should be opened, Parliament should no longer be a Parliament making war decisions, but rather a Parliament where freedom, more independence, more peoples can express themselves by their own identities. In the past... he'll come here tomorrow, and he'll come back with a new thesis on cross-border operations. All this has been tried, my dear friends. Let our new friends know that. Hundreds of times, that geography has been bombed from the border, deportation, air and land, and we have always said on this stand that the problem is not to conquer the Kandil. You can't solve the problem by operating cross-border operations. The problem is... you have wronged the Kurdish people from the founding of the republic to this day, the moment you surrender these rights, then you will conquer the heart of the Kurdish people. The problem is... you can't conquer the heart of the Kurdish people by killing the children of the Kurdish people. You can't conquer the heart by increasing our pain. On that occasion, these paths from the past to the present must not be tried again. All these roads have been tried, from Cirler to Mehmet Agha, from Agha to all the actors you know, and you have tried. This road is a dead end. For him, there is only one way, a negotiation and a dialogue, a compromise. We're here for compromise and dialogue. We're here to solve problems. Our goal is, we don't have the luxury of coming around here like any other lawmakers. Blood flows in the country, every drop of blood is our blood, and we don't discriminate between them. We did not make any distinction between death and death. We felt the pain of the dead soldier, the police, the guerrilla, and a civilian citizen in our hearts. We acted on that responsibility. And that's exactly how we're going to carry out our responsibilities from now on. For him, we all have important responsibilities. I'd like to give you a little example: look, other than the KCK operation -- I can name hundreds and thousands of names -- there are Kurdish children who are punished for 12 years for sitting in a democratic solution tent, Kurdish mothers, Kurdish elders. Can such a law be such justice? Is there such a segregation policy? Today, when the Prime Minister is traveling around the world -- he will visit and visit the museum in South Africa -- it is written on the walls of freedom, respect, equality, diversity, democracy, responsibility and reconciliation. I hope, Mr. Prime Minister, that we will come there and read these things, and in that state of mind, we will all make peace in this country that is not there.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0030par0505	Mr. Sakık, thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0028par0506	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0030par0508	Thank you. Congressmans, the last word on the Council's proposal is for Mr. Nurettin Canikli of Giresun. Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0031par0512	The counseling board has made a decision, Mr. President, and they're talking about it. There's no such thing!
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0030par0513	We'll find out later... Here you go.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0032par0515	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all, and I wish that the new Parliamentary work, the year of the new legislature, would be a blessing to all of us, to our parties, to our parties, to our groups, to our nation. Hopefully, the work that contributes and contributes to the solution to our nation's problems will be done under this roof. Dear friends, now, of course, we're discussing a subject, or rather we're discussing a few issues, but most importantly, this is a matter of the course of the Council interview publications. Now, of course, our friends, our friends from the opposition, are considering things in their own way. First of all, it must be known that we were never, at all, as the AK PARTY Group, in an attitude such as silence, silence, reduction, reduction.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0033par0518	Do you mean it by believing it?
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0032par0519	Yes, by believing... In a moment, I'll be filling you in with documented figures. Now, if you'd like to get started. Look, what we're arguing about is that in 1995, based on the relevant law, TRT and Turkey's Grand National Assembly are building a protocol. The date is 1995, dear friends. According to him, the Parliament's work is scheduled to be completed live between 2:00 a.m. and 1 hour -- the other is brief, the other is alive -- between 1900 a.m., it's decided, it's connected to protocol, and until 2002, March 13th, 2003 -- I'm drawing attention to it -- it's implemented in an uninterrupted manner, so it's under protocol, and it's never out of the question.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0034par0521	No...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0032par0522	I mean, from 1995 to March 13, 2003, it's only been televised from 2:00 to 7:00 p.m. Other than that -- there's private talks -- Parliament talks and so on -- whenever Congress works, the clock is extended, the weekend's decision to work, no way they're being broadcast alive.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0035par0523	He gave it to me after 1900.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0034par0524	No, no, no...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0032par0525	It's not being published... no, it's very clear, undisputed.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0034par0526	No, no...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0032par0527	Allow me... allow me. Mr. Vural, please...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0034par0528	Nurettin Bey, give us the right information.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0032par0529	It's not being published... look, except for the special ones.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0034par0530	Group meetings weren't being held, the General Assembly was being given full work.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0032par0531	Allow me, sir, allow me. Except for the special ones. Official information, documents. Look, there's also no group talk until March 13th, 2003.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0034par0533	Well, you weren't there... you weren't very interested in the activities of the council, then.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0032par0534	We know, sir, there's no need to be, so when you're considering the events of 20 years, 50 years ago, a hundred years ago, do you have to live a hundred years ago? Mr. Vural, for God's sake. Now, friends, so, look, in this period, in 1995, that's the decision, and it's being carried out uninterrupted. Is it necessary to say that political parties who were in power at the time have silenced the opposition with this practice? Can you say something like that?
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0036par0536	You have the same MPs today!
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0032par0537	From 1995 to March 13, 2003, there is absolutely no live broadcast out of this protocol, my friends. When does it start? I'm saying in the context of protocol -- violation begins on March 13th, 2003.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0037par0538	Who violated it? Who, who?
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0032par0539	I'm saying it in quotes, look, I'm not really using it as a violation. At times, such intense demands are outside the protocol, and outside these hours, the talks are being broadcast live. When? From March 13, 2003. Again and again, no broadcasts before this date, so 17. The talks in Turkey's Grand National Assembly are not being published after 00.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0038par0540	No, it's not true!
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0032par0541	That's right, that's right.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0038par0542	You want to bet?
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0032par0543	It's a problem, it's a problem.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0038par0544	Let's make a bet.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0032par0545	Let's do it later in private, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0038par0546	Group meetings weren't being held, they were being held by the General Assembly. Let's go!
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0032par0547	So look, I got it from the Court -- the official number documents. March 13, 2003...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0038par0548	Look, I don't have the right information...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0032par0549	It's not being published, but look at it, except for the briefs.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0038par0550	Let's ask the Speaker.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0032par0551	Don't mix up the briefs, except the briefs.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0038par0552	Mr. Speaker...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0032par0553	So, friends...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0039par0554	Mr. Vural, please... Please, let's hear it. We heard you, sir. Let's hear it.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0032par0556	And that's how the protocol works, in a strict way. There are friends in power at the time, political parties, there are opposition, there are groups, but we don't tell them that with this practice you stopped people, political parties, speakers, the opposition.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0040par0557	You can't. That's not true.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0032par0558	We don't say, we don't say. If we can't say that, you can't...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0040par0559	Nurettin Bey, look, the General Assembly's work was granted unlimited, brother. Don't insist here, you'll make a mistake.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0032par0560	Same app. Look, this is the same application, the same application that's being decided from now on. The practice between 1995 and 2002 is the same before us. If you can't tell him, how can you say that? Isn't that a double standard?
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0040par0561	Look, the congressman at the time, Cemil Cicek, Mr. Speaker, let's ask him. Is anyone else here? You're not giving me the right information.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0032par0562	Dear friends, look, the TRT later says that there was a protocol between us, but you broke it. There is no renovation in the protocol. The protocol is the same protocol, protocol in 1995. ▪ The failure to implement this protocol puts me in complete distress. Because there's no predicting when the parliamentary talks will take place, there's no telling when they'll last, and there's no telling when they'll start, so I can't plan, so please follow this protocol.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0041par0563	He's got 14 channels, so he's on the Capitol channel?
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0032par0564	That's his request from the council. That's what Congress says, that's what it is.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0042par0565	So don't equate the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with the TRT General Manager.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0032par0566	Look, we didn't start this app, it started before we did. The practice was applied from 1995 to 2003, and the following will be the same from 1995 to 2003. Dear friends, it's not right, it's not right, it's not right, it's really unfair, it's unfair, it's unfair, it's not true!
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0043par0568	Then you've seen what's missing, you've corrected it.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0044par0569	The result, the result...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0045par0570	He has 14 channels today. 14 channels. What are you hiding?
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0046par0571	I mean, I'm not going to count political parties from 1995 to today, and I'm not saying this to offend anyone, but I'm telling you this to show our true intentions. These are real, you guys, you won't be uncomfortable. Look, I'm talking about the truth. The document, the information, I'm giving it all to you very clearly. You'll see it when you get in. The same goes for group meetings.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0047par0572	You're changing everything, why didn't you fix it?
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0046par0573	Now, look, I have another suggestion, dear friends. Look, here's the suggestion: the actual hours of work are between 3:00 and 1900, according to the legislation of the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0048par0574	Then we won't be working at all.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0046par0575	Come on, let's actually concentrate on working hours here. So let's not work out of very exceptional circumstances, except in extraordinary and unusual situations, which is 19. Let's not work out of 100.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0048par0577	Nurettin Bey, who worked it, who worked it? He's here till morning...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0046par0578	Let me... let me... Look, but in order for this to be done, we need to be able to do legislature activities between 3:00 and 7:00.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0049par0580	Stop the status quo!
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0046par0581	In other words, let's get out of this Parliament, which is the duty of all of us, except for the legislature, which, of course, I don't mean, I don't mean that, except for the trial -- which may be considered a waste of time or a waste of time -- out of the Internal Charter.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0050par0582	You're gonna decide that?
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0046par0583	I'm going to give you an example, look...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0051par0584	You talk anyway, we don't say anything.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0046par0585	Let's take it out of the Civil Charter and concentrate its legislative activities within that time period, so all activities, all work, be published live. For example, look, we've met a lot in the last few years, it's been done -- I'll say it as a statement, as a matter of fact -- four groups every day brought group proposals here. A group proposal is approximately 50 minutes to an hour; four group proposals are four hours, five hours or three hours, four hours...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0052par0586	You're removing control.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0046par0587	Other than that, what happens when you calculate the times used according to the 60th article, the times used according to 63, those arguments, etcetera? It's 7:00, 20. It's 00, and we can't move on to the main legislature. Isn't that right, fellas? We lived. And from now on, it'll probably happen, we'll all see. So let's get rid of these, and let's focus on the issues that should be our goal, which are actually in our more intense field of activity, and 19. Let's not get out of 00. It's the right thing to do, we're in. Here, we'll settle for that.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0052par0588	Let's not give him the gene, let's not give him a parliamentary investigation!
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0053par0589	Let's move the roll call!
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0046par0590	If you're eating grapes, it's what we're suggesting. Let's remove all of these practices from the Civil Charter that cause time to waste, and in this period, let's focus on what we really need to do, dear friends. Here's a promise, and it's on the record, and we'll make all the arrangements you want. We have good intentions, we... look, I'll tell you something else. I mean, we don't talk about it as fast as possible. So the main thing is... look, think of the motion in a fundamental law. We're shooting the talks, and it's all the opposition. So you can't say, sir, that the ruling party group had more say in law talks, and that's not in practice. So we have no intention of keeping your voice down.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0054par0592	Instead of lowering people's voices, extend the time.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0046par0593	We want this Congress to focus more heavily on essential activity, to focus on legislation and control activities. That's his way, too.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0055par0594	You want to kidnap the people!
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0046par0595	That's his way, too. Let's all agree, then let's eliminate their losses, and also, embrace a more efficient, more intense method of work, and in this way, all arguments, all troubles, and your criticisms will be eliminated.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0056par0596	Promise?
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0046par0597	I'm telling you, I promise.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0056par0598	Do I have your word we won't bring in a recommendation from the Board of Counsellors, and you won't? Promise me in public?
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0046par0599	Look, I'm just saying...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0056par0601	Promise me.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0046par0602	If the 63rd Amendment...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0056par0603	Promise me.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0046par0604	The 63rd article...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0056par0605	Promise me we won't, you won't.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0046par0606	Article 63, Article 37, similar to this...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0056par0607	Promise me we won't, you won't.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0046par0608	I promise, I promise it's not important.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0056par0609	Okay, he promised, we won't, you won't. You promised, all right.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0057par0611	Mr. Nurettin, you will not make the decision.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0058par0612	Let us remove such time - wasting arrangements, practices from the Civil Code...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0057par0613	You're not bringing in the advisory committee.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0058par0614	...and other than extraordinary circumstances, let's run this coven this way. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0059par0617	Thank you, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0060par0618	Mr. President, I believe that Mr. Nurettin misinformation the members of parliament regarding the broadcasts of this Parliament television. Before 2003 -- and at that time, we were in Parliament -- the activities of Parliament were being broadcast on television in an unlimited way.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0058par0619	No, Mr. President, that's not true, the briefs were being published, and with a special agenda...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0060par0620	It was just group meetings that weren't published. So, that's what's obvious about this, Mr. Nurettin, that is, I'm in the need to correct misinformation.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0058par0621	Mr. President, under protocol, there is absolutely no such thing as these publications, there may be special publications within protocol, there may be special agendas.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0060par0622	Mr. President, it has been said in front of the Speaker of Parliament that, in accordance with the decision we have just made regarding Parliament's work, we, as the National Movement Party Group, have stated that Mr. Nurettin Canikli will not bring it, and since they will not make the decision, we promise not to bring it, as well as their commitment.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0058par0623	Mr. President, I didn't say that. Mr. President, I didn't say, let's, look, I said, let's clean up the rules, the regulations that have caused the waste of time in our Civil Code, let's get them up, let's get them up, let's do something more intense. Before the Council makes the decision, how do we set the agenda of the House, Mr. Vural? For God's sake, you know it too well!
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0061par0625	He's on the books, Mr. Canicli. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0062par0628	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0061par0629	Excuse me.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0062par0630	So now the will of the House has been handed over to the Director General of the TRT?
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0061par0631	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0062par0632	Yeah.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0061par0633	No such thing, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0062par0634	Isn't this the will of the people?
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0061par0635	Please. Congressmans, talks have been completed on the Council of Counsellors proposal. I submit the counsel board proposal to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Now, according to Article 60 of the Civil Code, there is a request for a place to speak. İstanbul MP Melda Onur has asked for a moment's notice as to World Animal Rights Day. Here you go, Mr. Onur.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0063par0642	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's Animal Protection Day. I'm going to ask you to look at today from a different perspective. Though we may sometimes see the news of savagery that scorches our hearts, the miracles of animal - loving volunteers have given us hope, but there are many things we can do: we must guard the lamp in the strait, the red - spotted trout in Longdere, and the otter in Tortum. So before we go into projects like hydroelectric power plants, nuclear plants, we have to think about this silent mass with precision because we're all part of the ecological chain. We're going to build a new constitution. Let us secure our living things, our air, our water, our land, and therefore our public health. Let us claim the rights of nature. Because when nature demands it, the consequences are severe. We want our Constitution to be ecological. Then we'll put less trouble on the backs of future generations. Thank you all very much, and I wish you a good life.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0064par0647	Thank you, Mr. Onur. According to Article 60 of the Interior Charter, our Istanbul MP, Mr. Mahmut Tanal, asked for a moment's notice. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0065par0651	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, Mr. Canicli, have spoken of the contract. Even if the contract is in 2003, it must be enforced because those conditions have changed. Parliament is the language of democracy on TV. The closure of parliament TV is a mute democracy, but also a veiled dictatorship. So that's how the public's right to learn, to know, is blocked. It means violation of basic rights and freedoms. Dear President, the esteemed MPs have been established by the Ministry of Development with decrees under the law. However, while our esteemed congressman, Adam Dessert, is taking a promise, although there are no questions, there are no questions, the Constitution must be carried into parliament immediately under Article 91 and the final clause of the law, while by this hour, the laws of the law have not been passed.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0066par0655	Mr. Tanal, your time is up and your word has passed, sir. Please...
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0065par0656	Article 91 of the Constitution is violated. My request from the Speakership of Parliament is to be immediately brought to the General Assembly from the commissions of Article 91 of the Constitution.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0066par0658	Finally, Mr. Aslanoglu, one moment from your position, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0067par0661	Mr. President, whoever the public official is, let's go all the way to the end of the crime, but I don't blame everyone who's been taken from their homes at 5 a.m., especially the last Kadiköy City Hall. I condemn everyone who plays with honor, honor, dignity, and I condemn those cops, and I condemn the prosecutor who gave me that permit. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-04sit01spe0066par0664	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you. Congressmans, we're moving on to the part of the agenda. Mus MP Sırı Sakık has been nominated as the head of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which has been idle on the Presidential Court and has fallen into the Peace and Democracy Party Group. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. İstanbul MP Smurf Ünal and Karabuk MP Osman Coffeeci have been nominated for membership in the Justice and Development Party Group, which has been idle in the National Defence Commission. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Congressmans, the decision has been made that our agenda for today is over. Turkish Armed Forces are on the verge of Bertarafting the threat and attacks on our country from the north of Iraq, as well as the deployment of Iraqi Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) Terrorists to the Northern District and 929/10/10/2010, and 5/10/10/10/10/10th Amendment to the Prime Minister's Office on Wednesday (October 17/10/2007 History and 903). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
