tbmm-2011-07-08sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 6th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. I wish our work to be good for our country, for our nation. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. First, according to our Constitution, MPs must take an oath before they begin their duties. Now, if any of the lawmakers who have not taken an oath before want to swear in this union, I will call them to the stand. Does anyone want to take an oath? No. We move on to the special agenda's part of the agenda. Now, the Council of Ministers, founded by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, will be read. I would like to call Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan to the stand to read the Council of Ministers Programme. Here you go, Prime Minister.
tbmm-2011-07-08sit01spe0002par0016	Mr. President, in the name of the 61st and 4th Government of our Republic's Justice and Development Party, I salute our beloved nation and your valued deputies. I wish the 24th term of our assembly to be good for our nation and for our country. On this occasion, I give thanks to all the states and politicians who have served this great nation, left art, and laid stones upon stones, especially on the road to the murky civilization, the founder of our republic, Gazi Mustafa Ataturk. I sincerely congratulate all political parties and you valued lawmakers who received the power to represent the Turkish Grand National Assembly on June 12, 2011 elections, and wish you all the best in our service to our nation. We've had a fair and free election that's quickly concluded in a peaceful and secure environment. On this occasion, I would like to once again thank all the people and institutions who have contributed to the election process in front of your grand delegation. This parliament, which was formed in the June 12th elections, was shaped by a high turnout rate of 87 per cent in the country. The voter rate, represented by lawmakers who have earned access to our parliament, has again risen to an unprecedented level of 95%. These results show that our democracy's participation and representation are even stronger. Again, these results are a clear sign that our nation sees the House as the address of all its problems and expects a lot from this House. I have no doubt that our Parliament will honor the trust our elector has placed upon it, and will work with great sacrifice for four years in accordance with our nation's expectations. Folks, the House is waiting for a solution to its problems, and this Congress, hopefully, will meet that expectation at a maximum. In the June 12th elections, our nation demonstrated an undisputed will to maintain high participation and representation, as well as strong stability in governance. In our history, democracy has not been seen, nor has its mate been seen in the world, but the rise of our three-term vote after vote has shown that our nation's confidence in our rule has been renewed every semester. This success, which will be written in in indelible letters in our history of politics, has also increased our responsibility and sensitivity. The main winner of the June 12, 2011 elections is Turkey, no doubt, this saint nation. With the experience we have, we will continue to be servants and not masters of this nation by combining our unresolved thrills. Dear lawmakers, as the Justice and Development Party, we have said that from the very first day of our long-standing history and trust in our civilization, we have made it the most important principle to act on the enormous potential of our country; we have seen our nation as the subject of our politics; in every step we took, we have based on our people's values, demands and expectations, and we have believed that this is the only way to achieve trust in the political institution. Our policy, which enriches Turkey, deepens its democracy, honors our country's reputation, will again serve the nation for a stronger Turkey in the new era. We believe that we have not a single day to lose in our world, where there is a rival rivalry between countries. At the very beginning of our program, I'd like to express two important issues. I'm here to give you just one summary of the government program, which we've prepared in a very comprehensive and detailed way. The government program has been distributed to you. [[CHP's ranks have not been moved.]] He's probably gonna mess it up, 'cause I asked them to distribute it. Second, we wrote our program around a sequence from November 18, 2002 to today. The 4th AK PARTY will carry forward the work he started in the previous three periods on a continuum basis. In the four-year period of 2015, we will complete the work that we have started, while in the meantime, we will implement our new projects. In other words, in this government program, we did it, we're doing it, we're doing it, we're reminding you and the public once again as guarantees of what we're going to do. Dear lawmakers, our previous government programmes contained realistic solutions to our country's years of problems. Despite the turbulent times of the world and our region, we have implemented a large portion of these solutions. We stood up straight, we held up the trust on our shoulders, we didn't compromise our nation's bread or freedom, we exceeded every provocation and arrangement to weaken the democratic political institution as a whole. From now on, we have no hesitation at the point of overcoming every obstacle set before national will with a firm and courageous stance, with the support of our nation. As a government in favor of change, we have broken down by heart in democracy and law, economics, social and foreign policy. After nine years, I would like to express with great pleasure, on behalf of my country and nation: Today in Turkey, politics is broader, economy is larger, social structure stronger. Our country's reputation has reached a much higher position in its territory and in the world. We didn't run away from problems, we didn't get hung up on artificial agendas. We've become a growing power that feeds on the solution to problems, not the problems. In all this reform and transformation, our nation and our Parliament, which is the center of the national will, have been our greatest support. In the coming period, we will continue to focus on dialogue, the search for reconciliation and cooperation within our House. In order for our parliament to work more efficiently, the government and the EC PARTY group will give all the help we can. Once again, I would like to remind you that just as this Parliament is Turkey's Parliament of 74 million, the 4th AK PARTY government is no doubt the government of 74 million. We will embrace our nation as a party of 78 provinces, which has been the first in seven geographical regions, and we will avoid discrimination with great precision. We will continue to respect each citizen's language, his faith, his culture, his values, his lifestyle, all his differences. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In the June 12th elections, our people, as they showed their appreciation for what had been done, set free the road map that we should walk on in the future. Our people have clearly expressed their support for stability. It is our duty to answer the blessed call of our nation under this roof. We, the government, have prepared our program to read our nation's message in the chest as best we can. With your approval, I believe this program will open the door to the construction of the new Turkey. This program will further strengthen the position we deserve in our region and in the world as the rising country of the 21st century. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we have carried out and carried out the process of joining the European Union, the largest modernisation move our country has ever made since the founding of the republic. While some European Union countries' approaches -- especially this one -- are far from objective criteria -- have a negative effect on the process, we are sincerely continuing our efforts to adapt to European Union standards. We believe that further reforms, economic development and active foreign policy will bring the European Union and Turkey to its destination. Time will work in our country's favor. We have established the Ministry of the European Union as part of the importance of the full accession process. In this new institutional structure, we will continue our reforms with the vital contribution of our Parliament. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, as EC PARTY governments, we have shaped our policies in a wholeness. We didn't think economic stability apart from democratic developments. We saw realistic social policies linked to economic and democratic developments. We've solved with great precision the distances we've taken in these areas interacting with our country's foreign policy and its position in the world. The lack of democracy has been our primary priority in the past, aware of the heavy costs that it has paid to our people and to our country, the reputation of the political institution and the removal of the shame of our democracy. The last time, on September 12, 2010, we bravely implemented many reforms, including by the Constitutional People's Vote. We have removed our country from bans, from extraordinary circumstances, and strengthened the national will against the sultan of guardianship. It is also our main goal in the third term to ensure that democracy is placed in all institutions and rules, and that the transition from missing democracy to further democracy is complete. At this time, our nation's most important expectation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a new constitution. The government and the AK PARTY group are fully committed to this. As the EC PARTY, we wish the new constitution to be prepared with the largest possible participation, a full community contract that reflects the demands of all social communities. Our nation and Parliament have the maturity and the savings to do so. Turkey's distance and growing social expectations in all areas have made the new constitution unscheduled. Clearly, society did not deserve this Constitution, which was imposed on it about thirty years ago as a product of intervention. In the campaign process, almost all parties have come face to face with the new constitution. At the point of making this commitment, we know that society closely monitors the work of parliament and the efforts of all political actors. Therefore, the next term will be the new constitution. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which founded our Republic, leading our national struggle under the most difficult conditions, has the full power, power, and will to make the new constitution. Our 24th-century Parliamentary structure offers a great opportunity for the broadest representation and reconciliation of the new constitution. As an AK PARTY group, let no one doubt that we will support the vital work of our Parliament at the highest level. Of course, our nation will decide what the new constitution will be like. We believe that this constitution should be a constitution that is not exclusive, it should be inclusive, it shouldn't be integrating, it should be embracer, it should be segregating, it should be binding, it should be not repressive, it should be liberating. We argue that there is a text based on the individual and rights of the new constitution, which protects our national unity and common values, that recognizes social diversity as a wealth, not a single voice, but pluralism, and includes all elements of the democratic state of law. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] International human rights documents, such as the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights, should also be based on the part of the new constitution. Mr. President, valued MPs, we have set our goal of democratisation in this period as democracy. As our Republic's 100th institution moves towards its anniversary, our goal is to establish a Turkey that has become one of the model countries in democratisation and has reduced its social problems to a minimum. As the EC PARTY, we believed that from the day we were formed, social problems would be solved with more democracy and more freedom. We've never adopted or embraced policies that push chronically social problems under the cover, ignore them. We bravely faced Turkey's radical problems, which have been constantly postponed and have become more complicated as it is postponed. We've taken unimaginable steps before. Our search for multidimensional and permanent solutions, which have been growing with a lack of democracy over the years, on issues such as language, religion, sects, ethnic origins, will continue in the coming period. Turkey is involved in decision-making mechanisms that will be effective in the future of the global system, and has to strengthen its internal body as it aims to be one of the top ten economies in 2023. Our decision as AK PARTY is clear. We are determined to reach the conclusion by taking additional steps to resolve the major issues that have been lost to all of us and stand the most serious obstacle to Turkey. We've done a lot of things about it, we've crossed the sea, we won't drown in the creek. We will continue to follow the National Union and Brotherhood Project to establish and honor our brotherhood in a more radical way the pluralist and libertarian democracy. We are one nation that shares a common history and civilization and builds our common future together. We're the heirs of a profession that has experienced living together as an example to all mankind in the past. It's our mutual responsibility to see our differences as wealth and not be a subject of conflict without ignoring our common values in any way. In an environment where each identity can express itself freely and improve, we are based on a union that respects identity without making separative identity politics. We ended the policy of rejection and denial during our rule, took steps to complete the end of assimilation policies, and we are determined to continue them. We consolidate our unity and integrity in a concept of citizenship based on universal values that no human feels left out or second-rate. The debates, academic studies, the proposals of our political parties and NGOs have allowed us to get much closer to the problems that are happening. We have no doubt that with the work of our Parliament, particularly the new constitution, which is based on the national will, this savings will transform into concrete developments and yield its fruit. All ethnic groups, Muslims or non-Muslims, Sunni or Alevi, heads or heads open, poor or rich, women or men, disabled or uninterrupted, look at our citizens with the same attitude. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our goal is to create an environment in which each individual will implement its basic rights and freedom at its most advanced levels. The only place to truly solve problems that have burned our hearts for so many years is this great House roof. As the government and the EC PARTY Group, there should be no doubt, no doubt, that we will support the dialogue and reconciliation process in our Parliament for all these issues in the strongest possible way. By putting our country's future ahead of any short-term interest, we must all work together. These efforts to strengthen our national unity and strength will contribute to our people's peace and prosperity, and will speed up our country's transformation into a much more effective force in the international arena. In our third period of power, we are determined to resolve these fundamental problems by ruling the spirit of unity and brotherhood. We've taken very important steps to resolve the Kurdish issue in our earlier years. From the removal of the state of emergency to the free use and study of Kurdish, from economic development to reforms in social and cultural areas, we have implemented historical reforms in a large area. We will continue these reforms decisively to strengthen our brotherhood further. We are the children of a nation who share the same history, pain, joy. So separatism has no historical, sociological and cultural basis for separatism in this land. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our solution policy is focused on people. Therefore, our courageous democraticization steps are not directed at one part of the country or one part of society, but at the fullest. Our fortune is more democracy, more rights and more freedom for everyone. That's why we say we're all together in Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we've made significant breakthroughs in the field of justice services over the past nine years. First of all, in our legal system, we have renewed the fundamental laws, particularly the Criminal Code, the Criminal Law, the Law of Commerce, the Law of Debts, by the will of our Parliament. We've increased the capacity of high courts in order to shorten the length of their trial. We've submitted IT technology to the service of the judiciary. The National Judicial Network Project (UYAP) and many institutions, such as the court, the population, the deed, the police and election boards, have been linked to electronic networks. We built modern palaces of justice and saved the courthouses from their basements. During our rule, we built five times as many justice service buildings as we have in the history of the Republic. In the coming period, access to a reassuring justice system is our primary goal. In the meantime, we will implement the strategy for judicial reform in all its dimensions. It is not justice that is past. We will speed up the judicial process with understanding. As it is known, in the time of our governments, there were law enforcement courts, but they were not implemented. The number of these courts has been raised from 9 to 15, and the prosecutors have been appointed. Studies are under way for the operation of the court of law as soon as possible. By increasing the capacity of the Forensic Medical Association, we will accelerate and expand the services of the institution across the country. We've made a significant increase in the number of judges, prosecutors and other staff. Still in our country, the number of judges for every 100,000 people is 10. We aim to bring this figure closer to the 20 levels of the European Union, which are the average in the coming period. We're going to activate law enforcement services that will help our underprivileged citizens get legal aid in their litigation. Mr. President, we've made a radical paradigm change in the sense of security that we've established as AK PARTI authorities, and we've adopted the approach to security for freedom as a fundamental policy. We've made significant improvements in security practices and training of security personnel based on the legal state and human rights. With the practice of community-supported police, the closer relationship our police have with our citizens has boosted confidence in the police, and police-public aid has contributed seriously to the decline of crime rates. The Safe School-Secure Education Project, launched in 2007, is being successfully implemented. Thanks to advanced technology and expertise, we have become one of the most successful countries to shed light on crimes and events. Turkey, one of the countries indicted for crime in the past, has received a commendation, not a criticism, during our rule. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The EC PARTI ruling fought effectively in the field of security, organised crime organizations, gangs, illegal structures. Our country's history of mafia and gang organizations have been significantly destroyed. There's a great deal to the decline of crime rates and the collapse of organised crime organizations. The principle of zero tolerance is being carried out by our government. Turkey is no longer a country known for torture. As a result of our successful security policies, the point is also appreciated by our citizens. As it was before, it is our primary goal to establish a public and security environment based on human rights and universal values, considering the safety of individuals, institutions and property, the delicate balance between freedom and security. In particular, we will not compromise our fight against the mob, gangs and organized crime organizations. We will continue to proceed decisively on all structures that could be a threat and oppression for our citizens. So far, we've made various reforms in order to overcome the centralist, introverted, stationary, rigid hierarchy structures. It's the first time we've come up with ethical rules for public executives, we've set up audit mechanisms. We've made simplifications of legislation that reduce stationery, and we've focused on the widespread use of information and communication technologies. We have increased transparency with the Law on Public Financial Management, which we have renewed. By providing the right to information, we have increased the control of our citizens over the savings of the administration. From 2003 to today, we regularly had Turkey's Statistical Foundation investigate life satisfaction. Our understanding of citizen and result-oriented governance will continue without slowing down in the coming period. We will focus on central management reforms in the coming period, particularly the restructuring of ministries. By acting on the principle of integrity of management, we will strengthen local governments with a sense of service. However, we will also develop the central administration's strategy development, standardization, monitoring and monitoring functions. In the 61st period of government, we will serve effectively with a new and more practical structure. In this framework, we've reduced the number of prime ministers, strengthened the prime minister's primary job of coordination. We've reconstructed some ministries by removing state ministries. With this new structure we've created, the state has acquired institutions that will provide better services to citizens. In this framework, we established the Ministry of Development, Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Customs and Trade, Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology of the European Union, Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, Ministry of Youth and Sports, Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. We will strengthen the financing and services of local governments, especially their self-inflicted income. We will also support some infrastructure projects from local governments through resources from the central management budget. We're making radical changes to the Metropolitan municipalities. We aim to establish a major city municipality in cities with more than 750k populations, providing high-scale planning and service integrity in the province. The Village Law will also be renewed during this period, when we have largely completed preparations for its draft. In 2003, Turkey ranked 77th in the Corruption Perception Index, published by the International Transparency, with 3.1 points and 133 countries, to the 56th place between the countries in 2010 with 4.4 points. Our efforts will continue decisively and uninterruptedly under a comprehensive strategy during the 61st government period. During the presentation of public services, information and documents from other public institutions will no longer be required from our citizens. Today, our citizens can easily do most of their work with the government online. We've made a lot of services available electronically from school records to tax payments, car sales to property services, export imports to traffic transactions. We've implemented the electronic signature app that allows public transactions to take place officially in the electronic environment. We'll be handing out electronic citizenship cards to all our citizens. The electronic citizenship card will be used to provide identification procedures for public services, so that our citizens will be able to access public services from their homes or workplaces for seven days and four hours. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we will continue to effectively implement our economic policies, which have now become an example of international success. A strong economy is based on the concept of trust and stability. With the confidence we've created and the stability we've built, we've solved basic problems such as inflation and public deficits during our nine-year mandate. We also had high growth rates in this period, and we came to the top of the world as a rising economy. With structural reforms and strong regulations, we have also reduced the fragility of the economy and allowed markets to function freely in a competitive environment. We've become a country that's taken over the entire world and has emerged from the global economic crisis, which many countries still can't shake, as an example. Our principles of transparency, continuity, consistency and predictability, which are based on our economic policies, have played an important role in reaching this conclusion, and we will continue to take these principles on the basis during the 61st government. From a long-term point of view, we're going to follow a line that will help our growth potential by creating solutions to our problems. We are aware that sustainable economic development will be possible based on a strong democracy and a fair legal order based on universal norms. Progress in these issues, particularly judicial reform, will also play a critical role in strengthening the economic transformation process, which has come to an important stage. The main goal of our economic policies is to increase the happiness and prosperity of our people. In today's competitive world, we know that investments in people, human qualities, a healthy social environment are also an investment in our economic potential. With that understanding, we integrated our economic policies with strong social policies and started a period of social restoration. Dear lawmakers, the world is going through a turbulent period in search of stability. The process of recovery in the global economy continues, but the world economy remains fragile and uncertain. The structural transformation of the EC PARTY's power in the economy and the reforms it implemented in this scope increased our economy's endurance. As a matter of fact, the global crisis has been a test process in this regard, and our economy has successfully passed this test. Turkey currently plays an active role in all decisions made within the G-20 framework. Turkey is appreciated and cited in the world's economic and financial circles, with consistent policies with determination. We quickly eliminated the impact of the global crisis on Turkey's economy, under the influence of proper and reasonable measures. In 2010, our economy quickly recovered and our national income increased by 8.9%. So we increased our income per capita to over $10,000 by reaching the highest growth rate in OECD countries. According to the buying power parity, our country is ranked 16th in the world, with about a trillion dollars in GDP. According to the acquisition power parity, the per capita income in Turkey in 2002 increased by 36 per cent of the European Union average in 2010 to 48 per cent of the European Union's average in 2010. In other words, the difference between Turkey and the European Union in these nine years has decreased. During our rule, we found that fiscal discipline, strong growth performance, and the decline in inflation could be carried out simultaneously. Thus, the belief that inflation was necessary for the growth that once dominated our country was broken. Now our businesses can predict and plan the future in a much healthier way, in an environment where uncertainty is dwindling. On the other hand, our fixed and narrow-income citizens, who have suffered years of loss of income in inflation, have also achieved a realistic income increase. Turkey was among the few countries that announced its exit strategy early in terms of the medium-term programme and finance policy. This led to Turkey's positive separation from many countries. We have successfully managed the global crisis with our own policies and resources, without funding from international institutions such as the IMF. We have now reduced the IMF debt, which we took over at $23.5 billion in 2002, to $4.7 billion. During the global crisis, we didn't sink a bank, we didn't invest interest in debt, we didn't have turmoil in financial markets. Our main goal in the coming period is to ensure stable and sustainable growth, increase employment, maintain price stability, strengthen financial balances and maintain financial stability. We aim to move from our nine-year gains to the ten largest economies in the world in 2023. In the next four years of government, we will continue our commitment to fiscal discipline, combat inflation, and employment-based high and sustainable growth in order to achieve its goals. We will continue to defend the release of capital movements and trade. We'll continue the wavy courtship regime. We're going to continue the social restoration process that we started with strong social policies in the fight against poverty and poverty. As a government, we will continue to consider macro-paralytic balances, as well as the needs of our citizens. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we've made serious increases in social expenditures, consisting of the sum of education, health, social security and social welfare spending, as well as the significant achievements we've achieved in macroeconomics. After 2002, we quickly completed investments that had not been started or finished in previous times, giving significant resources to public investments. In this framework, we finished public investments in 2011, which ended in an average of nine years in 2002, in 4.2 years. So we made the investments available to our economy and citizens at a faster and less cost. In the coming period, we will prioritize infrastructure investments and social-profit areas that support our potential for development in public spending. Dear lawmakers, maintaining and maintaining price stability is the main goal of our monetary policy. However, our monetary policy will monitor financial stability and support growth and employment policies, as long as it does not conflict with the aim of maintaining price stability. We're going to make inflation and interest rates permanent down to single digits. The aim of inflation will continue to be a fundamental monetary policy regime. Inflation targets will be set in three years by our government and the Central Bank and will be announced to the public. I'd like to repeat once again that we're going to continue implementing the wavy exchange dry regime. The Central Bank will continue to independently determine its monetary policy and its monetary policy tools to ensure price stability. We're implementing the Istanbul International Financial Centre Project. We have determined our vision here that Istanbul is primarily a regional and ultimately a global financial centre. We are carefully implementing the strategy and action plan that we have declared for this purpose. With these activities, we aim to include Istanbul in the ten most important financial centres in the world in 2023. As a result of the economic and political climate of trust and stability, the economy has gained more capital than its external resource needs. So the Central Bank gross currency reserve -- I care very much about this -- rose from 27 billion dollars in November 2002 to 99.5 billion dollars -- including gold, to 30 June 2011. Where are you going? At the end of 2002, export volume -- 36 billion dollars -- will again exceed $130 billion in 2011, despite the negative effects of the global crisis and recent regional developments. In addition to this positive performance in exports, we are carefully following the current issue. Under the high current deficit of Turkey's rapid growth period, there are some structural reasons. In our country, where external dependence is 74 per cent, almost all oil and natural gas are imported, while coal is imported by one fifth. Therefore, international energy price movements directly affect Turkey's current deficit. The Cari deficit's GDP rate was 5.7 per cent in 2008 and 6.5 per cent in 2010. When energy is removed from the price effect, these rates are reduced to 1.8 per cent and 4 per cent respectively. We're going to increase the share of renewable energy sources in energy supply in order to reduce the cari deficit to lower levels and reduce external dependence on energy. Again, we will continue with determination to work on nuclear power plants for this purpose. In the coming period, iron steel, textiles, ready-made clothing, electricity and electronics, especially machine and automotive, will continue to be the engine sectors of our export strategy. However, we will strengthen the domestic production capacity by strengthening the system of incentives for the construction of new refinerys, electric car manufacturing, high-tech aircraft engines and parts. We will implement effective foreign trade policies to increase the international competitiveness of sectors and the market share of our country's world scale, the foreign trade balance and the reasonable level of current balance. We've established the Ministry of Economics to ensure that these goals are met. In order to reduce production and export dependency on imports, we will continue domestic production capacity in intermediaries and investment goods. As you know, our export target in 2023 is $500 billion. As of 2015, we'll be moving our exports to $200 billion. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we will announce our mid-term programme for 2012-2014 in the coming months. In light of current global economic developments, we will prepare the medium-term programme with a cautious approach, particularly considering that the effects of the crisis will continue for a while in the developed economies. We will not make the slightest compromise to ensure that the environment of trust and growth continue in a stable manner. As we have now, we will carry out the necessary measures with determination. In addition, we will ensure that our banks and our private sector work with a strong capital structure by permanently attracting the facility and other measures to sustaining the current deficit of transactions. In the debt of our private sector and our households, we will encourage them to prefer more reasonable amounts, longer deadlines and Turkish lira as currency. Dear lawmakers, the number of tourists who visited Turkey in 2002 increased to 13 million people and tourism revenues at $12 billion, while the number of tourists increased to 29 million in 2010 and tourism revenues at $21 billion. We will continue this momentum with determination. We will work towards Turkey becoming an important centre for thermal tourism and health tourism in Europe and the Middle East. We will quickly complete the infrastructure and roads of thermal tourism, hydrotherapy centers, winter spores and yayla tourism centers. We have established the Ministry of Customs and Trade to ensure that customs services are carried out faster, more efficient, quality and standards. We've also given this Ministry additional tasks to monitor the internal markets. In the coming period, we will continue the necessary work on simplifying and accelerating customs and preventing trafficking, particularly in the infrastructure. In this framework, we will proceed with the implementation of a single window in customs procedures, which will make customs operations in all our customs administrations in a paperless and unmanned environment. As a government, it is always one of our most important priorities to provide jobs for all of our working citizens. We continue to make necessary reforms in the labour market for growth to provide more employment. In terms of increased employment, we are one of the fastest countries to emerge from the crisis. The 2008 global economic crisis has led to a major decline in the demand for labour across the world, especially for developed countries, and unemployment. In 2007-2010, unemployment rates increased from 8.3 per cent to 19.9 per cent in Spain; from 4.6 per cent in the United States to 9.7% in the United States; from 5.4 per cent in England to 7.9 per cent in Ireland; from 4.6 per cent to 13.5% in Ireland; from 8.3 per cent in Greece to 11.8 per cent in Greece. In our country, the timely measures limit the increase in unemployment. The period of strong growth began again in Turkey before the end of 2009. Although unemployment took place at 11 per cent in 2008 and 14 per cent in 2009, unemployment began to decline from the second half of 2009. As of March 2011, unemployment declined by 2.9 points to 10.8 per cent compared to the previous year. Our unemployment rate was 9.9% free of seasonal effects, thus reducing unemployment to pre-crisis levels. Although unemployment has increased during the crisis, total employment has never decreased. Dear lawmakers, starting in 2013, we will take advantage of our 400,000 unemployed each year, especially the active labor force programs we prepare. Since unemployment is also a problem in our country, we have launched the Specialized Occupational Centres Project to give skills to our unemployed. With this project going on for five years, we will train and put a total of 1 million unemployed people, 200,000 each year. We will carry out the National Employment Strategy, consisting of 102 policies and measures, with 22 concrete targets aimed at resolving unemployment permanently. We'll have all the national professional standards our labour market needs by the end of 2012. In the coming period, every unemployed person registered to İSKUR will have a job and occupational adviser. Our unemployed will be given one-on-one service. It will be a job-seeking and a job-finding service for all who are not employed. For this purpose, İSKUR will employ 4,000 contracted job and occupational advisers in 2011, 2,000 in 2012 and 2,000 in 2012. Mr. President, good lawmakers, our goal as government is to ensure peace and peace in working life through the establishment of social justice. For this purpose, we are working to develop a working life in accordance with the European Union standards and the ILO norms that protect the rights of our employees and the competitiveness of our businesses. With the Constitutional amendment in 2010, we have made significant improvements to the union rights and freedoms of our employees. The right to a collective contract brought to the officers' union is one of the most important. We also took a strong step towards social dialogue by providing constitutional assurances to the Economic and Social Council. As a government, we will make arrangements in the coming period to establish a quality and secure working life in accordance with universal standards. During December 2002, the minimum wage, gross $251, rose to 797 liras as of today, rising by 218 per cent. In the coming period, we will implement incentives for child homes and day care services in order to increase women's participation in working life. In the case of our young people, our women, and our unemployed people in vocational education, we will continue to implement the state-fund of an employer's insurance premium for up to fifty-four months. The work we've done to make sure our disabled citizens are more involved in their work life has yielded results. In 2002-2010, we increased the number of disabled officers employed in public institutions from 6,103 (19,000) to 19,000, while the number of disabled workers employed in public and private sectors increased from 10.883 to 32.257. We will continue to take measures aimed at the use of disabled quotas in the public and private sector. If our citizens with green cards worked as tradesmen or farms without service or tax records, the green cards would be cancelled. Under the arrangement, the green card will be suspended if the citizens of our green card are working. When the work of our citizen is completed, the green card will be activated without further bureaucratic work or transactions. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, in the coming period, we will ensure that policies and practices for the real sector will be carried out more effectively with the newly formed Ministry of Development, Ministry of Economics, Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, the Ministry of Customs and Trade. This year, we began implementing the Industrial Strategy, covering 2011-2014. Our long-term vision in industry is to become Eurasia's production base in medium and high-tech products. We're going to increase the added value of the medium and high-tech sectors in production and exports. In low-tech sectors, we're going to transfer to high-end products. To achieve these goals, we will continue to improve the investment and business environment and continue to strengthen the infrastructure to boost our competitiveness. We'll continue by developing the new investment incentive system that we started to implement in 2009. In the coming period, we will activate the support and incentive mechanism needed to produce Turkish-made automobiles that can be found in the world markets. We will also support the production of multi-purpose aircraft to meet the needs of our country in various areas. We will continue to care for our tradesmen, artists, and COBI, the source of dynamics in the economy. So far, we've made a very serious breakthrough in the defense industry, which is another area of special importance. We've moved the export of the sector to $1 billion, its turnover to $2.3 billion. We've raised the national supply rate of Turkish Armed Forces' weapons and equipment to 50 per cent. With projects we run in the defence industry, we aim for Turkey in 2023, designing, producing and exporting its own national rifle, cannon, tank, helicopter, aircraft, drones, satellites. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We have established the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology to ensure that the resources assigned to the ARGE are effective and efficient and become more useful. Our established ministry will play an important role in the transformation of information and technology into products by providing close work with the private sector in the field of RD and innovation. Dear lawmakers, we have been particularly focused on structural transformation over the past nine years in agriculture, providing for 5.8 million people in our country and providing for our people's food needs. Our agricultural production, which was $24 billion in 2002, increased to $62 billion in 2010, and our exports of agricultural products rose from $4 billion to $13 billion in the same period. In 2002-2010, we increased agricultural support by 255%. In agriculture, loans have increased from 59 per cent to 5 per cent, and loans have increased by 30 times the amount. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We've reset interest interest in private animalism and rain-watering investments. In order to ensure food safety from the field to the table, we have reconstructed our ministry as the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. In agriculture, we aim to reach a country where we can feed its population with enough, quality, and reliable food, boost its competitiveness, produce and influence in the world and in our region. In this framework, we're going to implement the model of a holistic water supply management for efficient use and protection of water resources. We will conduct these studies more effectively with the new Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. We'll conclude the legal and structural changes we've started to prevent the division of land through inheritance. In the coming period, we will implement agricultural support as part of the agricultural basin model, as well as regions and products. We will solve problems in the reformation and use of the Meras and provide efficient and sustainable use of our meras by making arrangements that will enable animal investments. We're going to continue and continue with the support programs that have been initiated for the balanced development of food and dairy animalism. Dear lawmakers, in recent years we have focused on the creation of sufficient capacity to produce electricity energy, diversification of energy sources and privatisation of production and distribution facilities. In 2002, we increased power to about 50,000 megawatts in our nine-year power. We cared about the use of renewable energy sources. We've completed the necessary strategy for energy efficiency. In this framework, we will evaluate local and renewable energy sources at the highest level in the coming period. We will activate a total of 5,500 megawatts of additional power, especially under hydropower plants, by the end of 2015, by the public and private sector. We'll also use thermal sources and renewable energy sources, especially wind energy, to activate new plants with a total of 4,800 megawatts of power in these two areas. We'll speed up our efforts to build a nuclear power plant. With all these new capacities added, at the end of 2015, we will increase our power to about 50,000 megawatts of electricity at the end of 2015 to 62,000 megawatts. In early 2003, only nine of our provinces had access to natural gas, and we took it out at 70 as of June 2011. The remaining 11 counties include technical difficulties and high production costs, but in our four-year period of power, we will meet with natural gas. There won't be a province in our country that doesn't have natural gas anymore. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In the coming period, we will continue to increase the search for mines and improve our geothermal potential. Besides, we'll start researching our own ships at sea. Dear lawmakers, our vision for transport is to establish a sustainable system of safe, economic, comfortable, fast and environmentally sensitive services. We have already launched Ankara-İstanbul's fast train line between Ankara and Eskişehir. In the coming period, we will complete the Eskişehir-Istanbul and the Istanbul Bosphorus tube passage. In addition to the Ankara-Conya line, where we have completed production, we continue to build the Ankara-Sivas fast train line. As of 2015, we aim to get our fast train network to 3,500 kilometers. During our nine years of power on the roads, we've completed more than twice the divided road in seventy-nine years. We've added 1,800 kilometers in nine years to the divided length of the road, which we've taken as 6,101 km, including highways. Our total divided road length has now reached 20,000 kilometers. Our goal is to reach a divided distance of 26,000 kilometers in 2015. In addition, over the next four years, we aim to finish the warm asphalt coating of most of our government roads by making 18,000km of hot asphalt. We've started a massive highway move using a do-and-run model on the highways. With the projects we've started, we're adding 750 kilometers to the length of the highway network, which is still 2,225 kilometers. In our period, the number of passengers on the domestic lines increased by six times to 51 million, while the total number of passengers using the airway increased by more than three stories, reaching 103 million people from 34 million people. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] With these breakthroughs, we've made the airway our people's path. Our goal is to transport 350 million passengers a year in a massive fleet of 750 planes in 2023. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We've also implemented many projects in the marine sector recently. We've made major breakthroughs in the shipbuilding industry in particular. With our support, the number of shipyards increased from 37 to 70. Thus, our country, which had previously ranked twenty-three in the world's construction industry, rose to the 6th place of the world today. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, in the time of our governments, we first took into account the physical space, personnel and access of our educational system and created the basic infrastructure of developing equipped human beings. Between 2002 and 2011, we built 163,000 new classrooms. We also took a comprehensive approach to education services and strengthened our children's infrastructure for housing, sports and cultural activities. We have opened 747 new pensions, 920 new gyms and 6,146 new school libraries. As part of our goal to prepare our children for the information society, in 2002, when we had very few and mostly obsolete computers in our schools, we assigned nearly a million new computers to our schools. We've provided fast internet access to 97 percent of our schools. For the first time in our Republic history, we have initiated the practice of giving free textbooks to each child in primary and secondary school during our rule. We increased the resources spent on education and rehabilitation of disabled persons 16 times by 2002 to $3.2 billion in the 2011 budget. We've increased the number of trained disabled 10 times. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our teachers' critical roles in education have improved their salary by more than 300 per cent between 2002 and 2011. In 2002, when we had a total of 76 universities, we established 89 new universities and expanded higher education throughout the entire country. So there's a university in all of our eighty-one provinces. As a government that has facilitated access to education through all these positive developments, we see the next term as a process where we will care more about quality. In this framework, further access to education problems, including classrooms, infrastructure, hardware, and teachers, in addition to the areas where we have already made significant improvements, is our primary goal to reduce them to zero, to place a qualified educational system at home. We're going to implement a transformation program that will fully review our education system and center quality based on our national values and international standards in pre-school college steps. We will rebuild the education system with an understanding that improves quality, precipitates the school, reduces the preparation for the exam, cares about content and functionality, not form and ceremoniality, and relaxes students and families. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We will provide an uninterrupted electronic communication environment between all schools, teachers and students. The Conqueror Project and I will move on to a new application in education and teaching technologies that will serve as an example to the world, in line with the technological advances of the age. We're going to hand out a free electronic book to each student, including the education curriculum. We will reform our higher education system in all aspects of this period. We're going to create a competitive environment where our universities will be more autonomous and compete in their own unique development areas. We'll pave the way for the private sector to start a university. We're going to popularise teaching programs to quickly cover the academic deficit of our newly established universities. Dear lawmakers, during our rule, we saw culture as a common function of the state, as well as our entire nation, and we gave great support for special cultural formations and activities. In our time of power, we did huge services to preserve our historical foundations and foundation. We've increased the number of artifacts that have been repaired 70 times in nine years. In the coming period, we will continue the detection and registration of buildings and monuments that are archaeological, natural, urban and historical. We're going to share the inventory with the public by transferring it to digital media. We will continue to study the introduction of Turkish culture, art and literature on national and international platforms. As part of electronic book work, we will broadcast classical sources of Turkish literature electronically. We will continue the restoration of our historical artifacts, and we will make sure that the technical elements necessary to preserve our cultural heritage are brought up. Support for private art institutions, civil society organisations interested in art and culture will continue to increase. The important figures of our history, events, fairytale heroes and cultural riches will be transformed into documentaries, soap operas and cartoons and brought into our culture world. We will continue to work with great effort and dedication to ensure that this understanding will be restored to young people who are in the care of our foundation, to preserve, to live, to develop the understanding of the foundation, and to bring that understanding to young people who are the guarantee of our future. Dear lawmakers, our government, which recognizes health care as a basic human right, has carried out many structural regulations in health care and health care. We've had unimaginably successful successes in the past in providing better quality, fairer and easier available health care. I would like to express my gratitude once again to our physicians and all health workers, who have a great contribution and sacrifices to the success of our health transformation program. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] After we got on the job, we improved our health workers' work and workplace safety conditions, increased their income. Our improvements will continue in the coming period. We've lowered the VAT rate in the drug and provided a significant reduction in drug prices. This discount, of course, brought relief. We've moved on to the practice of family medicine, one of the key elements of modern health. We've assembled hospitals under one roof, allowing our citizens to receive health insurance and services from all health care agencies. We've had significant increases in the number of medical personnel. In 2002, we increased the number of patients' beds of 161,000 to 201,000 in 2010. The quality of beds in hospitals increased from 6 per cent to 30 per cent. Our goal is to make all our beds qualified by the end of 2015. We've raised the budget of foster care by about seven times. In the house we started in 2010, we provide quality, efficient, accessible, and safe health care in the homes of bed - dependent patients with health care services. With this app, we've reached 60,000 people so far. In 2012, we aim to deliver this service to all those in need of home care. By the end of 2002, we increased the number of fully equipped ▪112 ambulances with 618 units to 2,547. We've presented 194 snow palette ambulances to the service of our people in areas of difficulty in transportation. With these developments, the 1112 emergency services have become a common service, not only in cities but also in villages. We activated the air ambulance system in 2008. As of July 2011, we have 19 ambulance helicopters and two ambulance planes serving across the country. We've carried nearly 10,000 patients and wounded in the air ambulance system. We're including three more planes in our fleet in 2011. As a result of these developments, our citizens' satisfaction in health care has increased from 39 per cent to 73 per cent. In the coming period, we will make our country an attractive health base, not just for our own people, but for the countries of the region. We're going to implement a comprehensive protective health strategy to protect our citizens from disease and high treatment costs. In order to improve the quality of service and balance the cost-effective health care, we'll spread the city hospitals we've started to build across the country. We'll continue to develop community-based health care. We'll be building an advanced service infrastructure that doesn't require patients to go to other areas in 29 health areas that will be created at home. Today, we will increase the number of doctors of 120,000 to 130,000 in 2015, and the number of midwife nurses of 163,000 in 2015 to 238. In 2015, we will increase the quality of beds in our hospitals to 45 percent. On average, we're going to build a population of 3,200 per family physician in 2015. Mr. President, good lawmakers, 83% of our population has been covered in social security by reforms we've done in the past tense. When we include our citizens with green cards, the percentage of our health care providers reach 96 percent. By pushing all our resources, we've made a serious increase in pensions for our pensioners. During January 2002-2011, we increased their minimum pensions by 619 per cent for our farmer pensions, up from $673 per cent from $673 per cent to $326 per cent for our business pension, up from $149 to $634 per cent for our pensioner, up from 257 lira to 782 lira for our pensioner, up from $377 to $936 per cent for our pensioner. We will continue to ensure that our employees and pensioners receive more from Turkey's new resources, the national revenues, which are enriching. We're going to gradually implement a fair policy system for our pensioners. Our primary goal is to include all citizens in the new era as social security and general health insurance. We're going to diversify complementary pension systems to minimize income losses that can occur when employees retire. Dear lawmakers, in order to provide faster, efficient and efficient services to our citizens, we have assembled all of our institutions and institutions in the field of social aid and service under the Ministry of Family and Social Policy under one roof. In this way, we will ensure that all benefits and services in our country are conducted in one hand and effectively. One of the biggest differences between us and other societies is that we have a solid family structure. In the coming period, the protection and strengthening of the family will be at the center of our social policy. In 2010, we reached out to about 10 million of our citizens. During our rule, we spent a total of $60.5 billion in benefits. While we support our poor citizens with social benefits, we also care deeply about their employment and their being productive individuals. The SODES, which began in the GAP provinces and then became popular in the DAP region, took major steps towards meeting the needs of the changing social structure, resulting from poverty, migration and urbanization. In 2010, we put the Action Plan to Establish and Enable the Social Welfare System's Connection to Employment. As part of this Action Plan, we are making records of citizens who have applied for welfare or who can work on welfare. İSKUR has started giving guidance and advice services to care for our poor citizens, to develop private vocational training programmes for them, to facilitate their employment. As a result of our social policies during our rule, we've come a long way towards reducing poverty in our country and correcting revenue distribution. In 2002, there were 136 thousand people with less than $30 per month income per person, and in 2009, there were no less than $30 per person's income. In 2002, there were 2 million people living with less than $65 per month, while in 2009 the number fell to 159,000. In 2009, we reduced it to 3 million when the total population of our citizens, who had to live on less than 129 dollars, was 20 million in 2002. By 2015, we won't have a citizen who has to live on less than $65 a month. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our main goal for 2023 is to eliminate absolute poverty. As a government, we've created an important collection of achievements and experiences in fighting poverty. We're starting a new era, considering our experience in this field. In the coming period, social benefits will be implemented simultaneously with social services. For example, a disabled family will receive social assistance, while the family will be provided with the necessary rehabilitation services for the disabled family without need to apply. The family's condition will be essential in welfare. Instead of helping each family with the same species and the same amount, the number of people in that family will be determined by considering their age, health care and disability. If there are people who can work in the family who don't work, they'll be referred to the labour market. If registered employees become poor, we'll support them with benefits. We will build a total of 100,000 dwellings, 50,000 in the first stage and 50,000 in the second phase, to be delivered to poor households with the Social Housing Project. We'll give these dwellings to our citizens at $100 a month in installments. We will pay back our newly wedded poor couples for twenty years, and in their dowry, we will provide them with a dwelling. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As the AK PARTY authorities, we've offered our disabled, our elderly, our helpless children, our fallen families, our veterans and our invalids a warm heart and widespread means. In the coming period, we will make Turkey a model country with universal approaches to social service. We'll expand the Obstructed City Project, which began as pilot applications in all four provinces. We will ensure that decent-sized municipalities have equipped vehicles for the transport of disabled persons in special circumstances. We'll get public service buildings to project cultural and social facilities in line with the use of disabled facilities. Our women's rights, their well-being, the removal of the obstacles they face in social life, are indispensable to our goal of a strong society. We've made significant progress in our women's employment opportunities and social security rights, entrepreneurial support, maternity leave. We've given our women 70% of the social support and project support. With the campaign, we taught 567 thousand girls and women to read and write. We will continue this attitude toward the ladies in the coming period. We'll increase the efficiency of women's decision-making mechanisms. We'll create larger jobs for our women in women's guesthouses. We will provide all kinds of social support for single mothers, along with studio homes. We will conduct all this work on our aging population more effectively under one roof. We will increase and improve the quality of our services to our children who are in need of protection. We're going to expand the children's homes and love houses to feel the security and warmth of the home and family environment for our institutional care providers. So far, we have supported 30,000 children at his family's side and will sustain this practice by strengthening them. Dear MPs, our government, which is focused on people, has taken important steps to ensure that our young people grow up well both in family and in the environment they live in and in schools and social places. By reducing the selection age to twenty-five, we pave the way for more young people's participation in politics. We've ended the double-number injustice of the college entrance exams. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Since 2003, we have granted scholarships or student loans to every student who has applied. By improving both the capacity and the physical state of the dorms, we've moved to rooms of one or three in all the dorms, removed the ward system, removed it. We've increased the number of students who benefit from foreign education and exchange programmes. We have established the Ministry of Youth and Sports, which will provide a more intense service for the country's youth. We will encourage youth's membership in NGOs. We're going to promote youth centers where young people can implement their own projects. We view sports not only as a means of evaluation of free time but also as an important tool of socialization and a healthy society. We've made great investments in the introduction of all the layers of our society to sports, to actively participate in sports activities. Since 2002, we have increased the number of facilities by 500 per cent, the source for the construction of sports by 600 per cent, and the number of licensed athletes by 1,000 per cent. We increased the number of scholarships given to our 4.366 amateur national athletes by 3 times, raising the amount of pro bono scholarships to 720 liras in 2011. We have successfully hosted international championships and college games in recent years. And from now on, we will make every attempt to host these kinds of organizations to our country. On average, the valued lawmakers live in 85 per cent of the population in the European Union. In Turkey, it increased by nine points during our rule to 73 per cent. On this occasion, we established the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, which would give us a more comprehensive perspective on the work we're going to do in the coming period. Our ministry will develop regulations and standards on physical planning and construction, draft national and regional spatial development strategies in line with development policies. Environmental arrangements, procedures and audits will be carried out in harmony with plans by this Ministry. We have launched 248 slum transformations and urban renovations of 188,000 dwellings in a total of 60 cities, jointly with TOKI and local governments. In addition, we began construction of 505,000 dwellings with TOKI hands, completed 360 thousand, and delivered them to the rightful owners. By showing our understanding of social justice here, we've built between 100 and 350 in installments to poor families with no income, 10 to 20 years on the clock. We've managed to get the central administration to take over construction of rail systems that our local governments can't handle with limited resources in urban transport. In order to separate urban traffic from inter-city traffic, we've made 3786km of city crossings in 58 districts, 474 districts and 209 cities. We radically solve waste water and rainwater systems that allow our citizens to access healthy drinking water and are environmentally important. I'd like to express that in particular. To that end, we started the Water and Sewering Infrastructure Project, a project called SDUPAP. We've got the money right now, so he can take advantage of this project by applying for whatever municipality he's got. With the resources we will provide for this project next semester, we will provide grants to our municipalities, whose population is less than 25,000, up to 50 per cent of the cost of the project. In the coming period, we will continue our understanding of redesigning our cities and rebuilding them with its own financing dynamics, eliminating urban aesthetics, quality, cultural values and environmental sensitivity. In line with this goal, we will allow urban design and aesthetics to renovate the developmental legislation to serve its purpose, as well as the market cities. We're going to redesign areas that have lost the forest quality, have been used for years by negligence, and cannot be gained, in the balance of public interest and personal benefit. We'll make additional arrangements to quickly implement urban transformation projects. To be prepared for the earthquake, we will continue to study transformations in risky cities, especially Istanbul. We will increase the population of the municipality to 100 per cent, which benefits from drinking and using network water. We're not gonna leave it in the dry land, and we're gonna build water treatment facilities where it's needed. We'll continue to develop public transportation infrastructure in cities. We will quickly complete the rail systems on the busy lines and ensure inter-city integration. Dear lawmakers, before the June 12th elections, we announced our major projects for some of our cities. These projects on our cities, including Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir and Diyarbakır, will provide significant gains to the areas in which they are located, as well as to strengthen the brand value of our cities. These projects will also launch a different process in areas such as transportation, trade, environment, urbanisation, especially in terms of employment, both in the construction stage and after construction. We aim to employ hundreds of thousands of people in the construction process of all these projects. We're going to build earthquake-resistant healthy habitats in new habitats. With these projects, we also contribute to environmental protection. We haven't forgotten any commitments to our nation before the election, and we haven't covered it up. By taking the projects that we've announced to our cities into our government program, we've also made our commitment official. I just want to give you a summary here, and you'll find a detailed list in the books you have. We will build a channel between the Black Sea and the Sea of Marmara in the west of Istanbul. With the construction of this channel, we will be able to move the shipping traffic in the Bosphorus of Istanbul to the canal and establish the security of Istanbul and Bosphorus. We will build two new cities in Istanbul, one on the European side and one on the Anatolian side. These new cities will also support urban transformation within Istanbul. We will provide Istanbul with a third airport and a third bridge. We will rebuild the garrison of Gunners, which is in the division, according to its original nature; and we will underground the traffic of the division. We will renegotiate the flats and the Cizada with a different concept, and we will transform Yassuada into a Museum of Democracy. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] We will build the Gulf Pass Project in İzmir, a.k.a. Izkaray, and tie the two ends of the Gulf of İzmir together. We're going to build the 583km high-speed double-line train line on the Ankara-Afyonkarahisar-Alayak-Manisa-Izmir route in two stages. We're going to build a tunnel between Izmir and Manisa in the long-lost zone of transportation through Soapcubeli. We connect Izmir-Ankara and Izmir-Istanbul highways and three major provinces of Turkey, uninterrupted, comfortable, safe. We'll connect Izmir's downtown with four subway lines that we'll build to other districts and surrounding districts within the city. With all these projects, we raise Izmir to a very different city. In the same way, we will launch our Diyarbakır projects during this period of government. In Diyarbakir, about five hundred civil architecture samples in Surici (Surichi) will be rebuilt in an appropriate manner. In Diyarbakir, we separate military and civilian airports. Despite the Tigris River, we're giving Diyarbakir, where the amount of green space is very low, a new habitat where green and architecture rise in harmony. We connect Diyarbakır with a high-standard highway, both to Habur. Both to Şanlıurfa, Gaziantep, Adana, Mersin, Niğde, Ankara, Bolu, Düzce, Istanbul and Edirne. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] With the Silvan Project, we'll be able to water 2,450,000 acres. With this project, we provide our farmers with an additional $735 million a year, thanks to the watering system. The energy field benefit of the project will be 102 million liras per year. The Silvan Project will provide jobs for 318,000 people, while the country's economy will receive $837m per year. I'd like to remind you of our projects for Ankara here: Ankara is the capital of our defence industry. Hopefully, with new projects, we will strengthen Ankara's quality, making it one of the world's most important defence industries. We will give Ankara a new palace of justice. We will build Ankara a stadium in accordance with UEFA criteria. We're building an international fairground center based on 1,800,000 square meters in our district. The work of the Ankara-Yozgat-Sivas-Erzincan high-speed train line continues. Ankara-Afyonkarahisar, Uçe and Izmir will also begin their work, raising Ankara to the centre of the fast train, the intersection point, the joint station. We will complete three highway projects, which will be Ankara headquarters. The Northern Ankara Protocol Road Urban Transformation Project, the Mamak Urban Transformation Project, will continue urban transformation in the 50th year. With a project we call the Southtown, we will bring Ankara a new city of 500,000 people. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We will start projects for our new government, not just Ankara, Diyarbakır, Izmir and Istanbul, but we will start them as major cities in our new period of government, and we will finish them as soon as possible. Dear lawmakers, during our rule, we have implemented our regional development projects in a multi-directional and decisive way. We quickly implemented regional development projects such as the Southeast Anatolia Project, the East Anatolia Project, the Plains of Iconium Project. Finally, we also carried out the provisions of the DAP development administrations at KOP and Erzurum. For the first time in our country, we have put into practice programs aimed at providing economic power, dynamics, and development momentum to the areas in which our attractive cities are located. On the basis of past applications, we will strengthen and expand our programs and projects to speed up regional development throughout the country. We'll increase the resources and resources of development agencies. We'll strengthen the regional and sectoral incentive system. We're going to encourage urbanization and faster development around the centers of attractions around our underlying areas. WITH CENTURY and BELDES programs, we conducted a fever-based study to provide drinking water, roads, and so forth in our villages and cities. In the coming period, we will make special efforts to balance the difference between income and prosperity between cities and rural areas. BY increasing resources, we will transform the SOCIS Program into a comprehensive rural development program. My fellow lawmakers, ever since we took office, our main goal in foreign policy has been to make Turkey a regional power and a global actor, one of the defining countries of the international system. So instead of a problem-oriented approach in foreign policy, we adopted a visionary approach. Since we came to power, we have seen full membership in the European Union as a strategic goal to strengthen our democracy, to make our country a more effective and decisive actor in regional and global problems. In this process, we will continue to take the necessary steps towards our goal of full membership, despite unjust opposition from some countries, despite artificial obstacles in our path. In Cyprus, we will continue our efforts to reach a comprehensive solution based on the political equality of the Turkish Cypriot people and Turkey, looking out for strategic interests. Relationships with the Middle East, where we have deep historical and cultural ties, are an important strategic factor that strengthens our country's foreign policy. Our efforts to deepen current economic relations between Turkey and Middle Eastern geography will continue to grow stronger at this time. We believe that recent changes in the Middle East have provided significant opportunities for the region to achieve more democratic, transparent, and active governance. We will make every effort to ensure that this process meets the legitimate longings and demands of our brothers and sisters, and that the region will emerge more democratic, more stable, and more prosperous than the process. With the understanding that final stability can only be achieved through the systems of governances taken from the public, we believe that reforms that will meet the legitimate demands of the brothers and sisters of the region must be realized. Specifically, in Syria, Libya, Egypt, Tunisia and Yemen, we will follow an active policy to establish inner peace, peace and stability as soon as possible. We're doing everything we can to help with the human problems caused by the political instability in these countries, and we're going to continue to do so. When the crisis broke out in Libya, our government conducted one of the largest evacuation operations in history, allowing over 25,000 civilians to be transferred out of the country. We still offer all humanitarian aid and support to some 10,000 Syrian brothers who have crossed the border and taken refuge in our country due to security issues in Syria. Turkey was the top of countries that made the most effort to ensure Iraq's security, peace and democracy. One of the most important conditions for stabilisation in the region is to resolve the Palestinian problem in a human and peaceful way. The key to peace is the two states living in peace with each other under UN decisions. In this direction, Turkey will continue to make active efforts to ensure a Palestinian compromise and to revive the peace process. We will be followers of the attack on the civilian convoy sent to Gaza for humanitarian aid by NGOs on international platforms. Unless Israel formally apologizes for this illegal act against international law and all sorts of human values, there is no way for relations between the two countries to be normal unless it pays compensation to the relatives of our citizens who have lost their lives. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] We will continue to strengthen our relations with the Balkan countries and contribute to the continuation of peace, peace and stability. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Peace and stability in the Caucasus is a strategic priority for our country. Turkey will continue to strive to establish peace, stability and prosperity in South Caucasus, to end the occupation in Azerbaijan territory and Upper Karabagan, and thus to improve relations between all the relatives in the Caucasus. We believe that the largest peace, stability and prosperity environment in the Caucasus, including normalisation of Turkey-Ermenistan relations, should be born. Turkey has now risen to regional and global actor status as a result of the active and preliminary foreign policy we run during our rule. For many years, Turkey's image, which has been known only for crisis and disasters, has been replaced by Turkey's perception that it needs its views for the establishment of international peace and security and its original vision of solutions. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we can't be too proud to be the representatives of a great nation that relies on a long history and civilization in a highly strategic geography of the world. In the 100th year of our Republic, our country will continue its successes in its region and at the global level, with envy. As we've accomplished our goals in our previous government programs, I hope we'll achieve our goals here. So we will bring our nation to forward democracy, to greater prosperity, to more social justice, to a stronger Turkey. Our government, who will carry out its work in an understanding that embraces all the parts of our community, is once again awaiting the confidence and support of our beloved nation and the great Assembly. We will conduct our work transparently in dialogue and cooperation with NGOs and all interested parties, especially our opposition parties. The successes of all these studies will not be ours alone, but the success of our nation by all sides. I wish this new era to be good for our country and our nation. May Allah be our Lord and help, and our way and our good fortune be clear, and I salute you with love and respect.
tbmm-2011-07-08sit01spe0003par0391	[[AC PARTY and the Council of Ministers applaud standing by]] Thank you, Prime Minister. Congressmans, the Council of Ministers' programme has been presented to you by the Prime Minister. The 110th Articles of our Constitution and Internal Law shall be carried out after two full days of reading of the Council of Ministers' talks on the Council of Ministers programme. According to this, talks on the programme will be held on Monday (July 11th 2011). Congressmans, we're now moving on to the part of the agenda. We're going to vote for the membership of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Presidential Court. I'll have the Council of Presidents read the list of candidates reported by the two political parties for their membership and submit them to your votes: Turkey's Grand National Assembly Presidential Court Mehmet Sütık Kahramanmarash AK PARTY Faithful Yakut Kayseri AK PARTY Fatih Şahin Ankara AK PARTY Bayram Özçelik Burdur AK PARTY Mine Lök White Diyarbakır AK PARTY Muhammad Bilal Macit İstanbul AK PARTY Mustafa Hamarat Army AK PARTY Özlem Yeshçi Tekirdağ AK PARTY == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Mustafa zucchini Konya AK PARTY All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The Presidential Court celebrates the elected MPs, and I wish them all the best. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Members of parliament, there is no further topic to discuss on our agenda. According to the decision taken, it is 15 p.m. Monday (July 11th 2011) to discuss the schedule of the Council of Ministers established by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
