tbmm-2011-12-12sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The first roll call didn't have enough meetings. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the Central Management Budget Bill of 2012 and the Central Management Computation Bill of 2010. Under the schedule, we'll have two rounds of interviews today. The sixth round includes the Ministry of Health, Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate, Border and Coastal Health Directorate, the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Development, the Undersecretary of State Planning, the Chairman of Turkey's Statistical Institution, the Chairman of the GAP Regional Development Administration, the Chairman of the Eastern Anadolu Project Regional Development Administration, the Chairman of the Regional Development Management Project, the President of the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration, Customs and Trade Ministry, Customs Undersecretary of Customs and Trade. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Commission? Here. Government? Here. Members of parliament must write the passwords to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour until the end of the talks, and then press the promise-seeking button on the screen after presenting their fingerprints. It's for your information. In the sixth round, I read the names of the members of the group and their individuals. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group: Kayseri MP Mr. Ismail Tamer, five minutes; Kahramanmarash MP Yıldırım Mehmet Ramazanoğlu, five minutes; Tokat MP Şükrü Ayalan, five minutes; Kilis MP Mr. Fuat Karakuş, five minutes; Şanlıurfa MP Mr. Abdulkım Gök, five minutes; Bursa MP Mr. Canan Candemir Çelik, five minutes; Mardin MP Mr. Abdurrahim Akdağ, five minutes; Konya MP Mr. Hüseyin Temez, five minutes; Denizlı MP Mr. Nihat Zaybekci, five minutes; Mr. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group: Mersin MP Ali Öz, thirteen minutes; Antalya MP Mehmet Günal, thirteen minutes; Hatay MP Mr. Adnan Şişek Yıldız, twelve minutes; Aydın MP Mr. Ali Longırmak, twelve minutes. On behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group: Muğla MP Mr. Nurettin Demir, nine minutes; İzmir MP Mr. Aytun Çıray, nine minutes; İzmir MP Mr. Rahmi Küreli, ten minutes; Adıyaman MP Mr. Salih Fırat, six minutes; Tripoli MP Mehmet Volcan Canalioğlu, six minutes; İstanbul MP Mr. Aykut Erdoğdu, ten minutes. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group: Mr. Idris Baluken, 20 minutes; Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan, 20 minutes; Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Binici, ten minutes. On behalf of his subjects: Mr. Mehmet Süleyman Hamza, Diyarbakır MP in Poland, five minutes; Mr. Pervin Buldan, Iğdır MP against him, five minutes. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Ismail Tamer of Kayseri.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0002par0059	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, you know, their memory is damaged by five Aprils. Today, I'm going to give you a short chronological ranking of what we've done with the Health Transformation Programme in Turkey, which we've been implementing for nine years. And then I'm going to try to express the changes that we've made in health. In 2003, we stopped being held hostage in hospitals. We've made 112 emergency services free of charge. We've arranged for our citizens to receive health insurance and services from private hospitals, medical centers. We brought in additional payment systems based on performance. We opened a free cancer education kit. We've got the Green Cards on stand-to treatment now. We've granted you the right to choose a physician. We brought the reference systems in the drug. Of course, in Turkey, for the first time, we were happy to bring family medicine. We've established patient rights units in every hospital connected to our ministry. We've started implementing global budgets within the Ministry of Health hospitals. Public-private partnership was a very important law, which we passed through the House. We tried to give the drugs to the TB patients at their homes. We've allowed all our citizens to receive primary health care for free. Again, of course, we had air ambulances in ambulances from ambulances, and then helicopter ambulances and aircraft ambulances began serving carpaled ambulances where they could not be reached again. We've made emergency intensive care, intensive care treatments free of charge to all patients in public-special hospitals. That was important, too. In private hospitals, we allowed for free burns, cancer, newborn organ transplants, birth anomalies, dialysis, vascular surgery, and so on. We have forbidden smoking in open and closed public spaces. We've made an important development by launching the guest mother projects again. We started piloting with the drug tracking system, we built central hospital dating systems, we created full-time legislation, the most important thing is that we started home healthcare, we expanded drug monitoring systems, we spread family medicine all over the house, we got the air ambulance back in with our aircraft fleets. Another important development, we fought obesity in Turkey, and began implementing the Diabetes Prevention and Control Programme. We began implementing the Turkey's Heart and Veterans Control Program. Besides, we've now made public hospitals effective. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you know, it's no longer an easy five minutes to count what's done in health. I've been the co-ordinator of seven counties since I served in Kayseri. Thankfully, when our Minister of Health gave me this assignment, the SEC hospital was with us, along with the state hospital, where the patients there were, the patients in Kayseri. There was a wall in the middle here. This wall was so walled that a wall of five feet [5 m] and a second fence was drawn on top of it, five feet [5 m] high. These are the things that our Prime Minister, then our Minister of Health, had specifically instructed us to tear down these Berlin walls for the first time in Kayseri, and we began implementing them, my friends.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0003par0071	Did you smash it with a sledgehammer or a dozer or what?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0002par0072	It's not an easy thing, it's never going to be to ignore what's done in health, it's going to continue. Dear lawmakers, with public private partnership, the foundation of city hospitals was first laid in Kayseri. First of all, I'd like to thank Mr. Prime Minister, then the lawmakers, then the Minister, the valued bureaucrats of our health ministry who worked in his kitchen. Of course, when we broke down the Berlin walls, a local television told me, like, "Well, Chief of Medicine, you've broken down the walls, but it's important that we go there, not to tear down these walls, but to get service from there. Thank God for the health-changing law, we've provided services from all SSC hospitals from all hospitals, private hospitals, and public hospitals. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] They're not easy to express. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0004par0079	Thank you, Mr. Tamer. Mr. Yıldırım Mehmet Ramazanoğlu.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0005par0082	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to start by congratulating all of our Diyarbakır brothers, all of our Diyarbakır MPs in our House, because I'm positively jealous of our Diyarbakir, so I envy them. Because as a medical doctor, how can I not envy you guys, 167,000 square meters... do you know what that is? We're talking about a hospital 42 times the size of a football field, 167,000 square metres of Diyarbakır Education and Research Hospital. I couldn't find a hospital the size of this hospital, and I looked at the world literature on this scale. Frankly, in the implementation of this hospital, I, in particular, thank both our Prime Minister and our esteemed Minister of Health separately.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0006par0084	The heat's not on, the water's not running.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0007par0085	Turn on their heat, their heat.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0005par0086	In the meantime, I'd like to express one particular thing, my friends, that our hospital's chief physician, Professor Yusuf Rain Bey, is a valued colleague of ours. Notice that he was born in Gaziantep, he studied in İstanbul and serves in Diyarbakır. Look at the beauty in our mosaic, look at the variety of our hearts and social wealth, my friends. I'd like to increase these beauties with a few more examples: Professor Yusuf Rain, our brother himself, says that, according to his statement, prescriptions are being written in order to ensure that the homes of our citizens, who are paralyzed, chronically ill or otherwise suffering from severe health care, can not be admitted to the hospital, even their blood is taken away from their homes and examined in the laboratory, according to the results. I've had an example yesterday to share with you how much easier our citizens' access to health care in our country, especially Diyarbakir: At 2:30 p.m., I called Alo 182, this is the Alo 182 appointment line, this is Alo 182 appointment line, I've been calling for 45 seconds, while I've been testing when the Health Ministry's line is not working well, and I'm very pleased to test it when it's not working, but last night at 2:30, I called Alo 182. Now, after this conversation is over, I'm going to thank them and cancel my appointment by calling the same service again.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0008par0089	Why bother, what if there's an emergency?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0005par0090	Dear friends, I apologize to Mr. Minister as well, please excuse me: This is the second place in the 1st position of Erzurum Regional Education and Research Hospital, which was in the first position until then, after 167,000 square meters of Diyarbakır Education and Research Hospital was built. So, we're all over it, and frankly, we're kissing the hand we can't bend.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0009par0091	Are people being experimented on at the Diyarbakır hospital or not?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0005par0092	Guys, okay, so Diyarbakır's breaking these records, and I guess we're not going to get caught up in this as a hero marquee. We have an important record: we've broken an election record, that's one. Coming up to our second record: Kahramanmarash Regional Education and Research Hospital 81,500 square meters, university hospital friends 11,000 square meters, two of which combined with 1,3,500 square meters, and we're crossing the entire area of the two hospitals. One for this year, one for next year. What I want to say is, friends, is that the Kahramanmarash Regional Education and Research Hospital -- Mr. Minister, I use the name in this way for your tolerance -- we hope to fulfill our promise to you -- will have a Turkish record, and what is that? We're passing Diyarbakir here, attention!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0009par0094	Don't cross Diyarbakir! Is there or is it not used to test patients there?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0005par0095	2,300 square meters of net, 2,800 square meters of gross emergency area. Guys, we don't measure fields; we're talking 2,800 square meters net, closed, in one piece, in one floor, in an emergency room at the entrance, which is really a record in Turkey. Imagine that there are 18 O.R.s in each O.R., with 360 degrees rotating mobile cameras on-line and simultaneously in the 500-person conference room, where medical students, doctors, medical staff, are receiving simultaneous surgeries. It's not over, and can you imagine the doctors abroad watching this surgery broadcast? It's not over, it's going to happen very soon, hopefully, when an American doctor abroad, another doctor, another colleague of ours, can perform surgeries with robotic surgery in Kahramanmarash -- think remote controls -- is going to happen.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0010par0096	And when you weren't dreaming about it, it was all done at the University of Alexandre.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0005par0097	And frankly, from now on, we will continue to share these beauties with you, with our Minister, with our Prime Minister, with our members of the government and with our entire nation. I thank you all for listening to me very carefully, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0011par0100	Thank you, Mr. Ramazanoglu. Congressmans, who are visiting our country, Montenegro: Rafet Husovic, Minister of State; Rifat Fejzic, Mufti; Suljo Mustafic, MP; Amer Halilovic, MP; Serbia: Suleyman Ugljanin, Minister of State; Bajro Omeragic, MP; Assad Dudevic, MP; Kosovo: Mahir Oilers, Minister of Public Administration; Fikrim Damka, MP; Muferra Sınuk, MP; Macedonia: Come on Nazir, Minister of State; Bulgaria: Kasym Dal, MP; Korman Ismailoff, MP; Greece: Ahmet Hadji Osman, MP; Cetin Mandacı, MP. [[Applause]] They've arrived at our coven by now. I welcome them on behalf of your grand delegation. [[Applause]] Now, we're moving on. [[Continue]] == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Şükrü Ayalan, the Slap MP.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0012par0154	Mr. President, from the first day we came to power, we launched the transformation program in health care, one of the problems of our country, as well as many of the problems of our country. The basic principle of the Change in Health Programme was to prepare an environment where citizens of the Republic of Turkey can easily access and benefit equally from all health services as individuals with equal rights. In the Change in Health Programme, as we all know, the AK PARTI, inspired by the support it received from its thousand-year history and inspired its underlying philosophy, put a human at the center. He said, "First, man." He said, "Let the people live so that the state can live." When we set out with this philosophy, there were no problems that couldn't be solved, thank God that at the moment we came here today, as citizens of a country that has solved all kinds of health problems, we can walk around with our heads held high and white. Of course, my dear brothers, my dear fellow lawmakers, there were many classic news about health, you remember before the AK PARTY. In writing and visual media, our people giving birth on sleds, our patients in hospitals, even our funerals, our people who sold the yellow girl to pay for the knife, were in our newspapers and on visual media almost every day. Thankfully, after the EC PARTY, we were no longer able to see such news, we competed with everyone in the world's developed countries for health care, and perhaps we had the pride of reaching health care above developed Western standards. I don't want to waste your time talking about changing physical conditions, the healing of our hospitals, or family medicine, or high-level health care. What we really need to know is that this philosophy, the philosophy of change in health and transformation, is appreciated by everyone, both by our opposition MP friends and friends and enemies. Dear friends, we have established standards and even stepped up in developed countries in diagnostics and treatment services, as well as in protective primary health care. We've both seen and tested it very easily in the field work we've done, and in the elections we've had, and the international groups have confirmed and appreciated all the international meetings around the world where we agree that Turkey's policy of transformation in health has been successful.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0013par0158	Are you going to talk about Crimean Congo?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0012par0159	My dear brothers, my valued deputies, the health care we did in Tokat, were hospitals that were spoken and cannot be done for decades, and health clinics that couldn't be taken away. As with the Tokat, as with all of Turkey, we have become the top health care providers in all parts of our country, and I proudly express it here. In the spring of 2009, I called the person who texted me in exchange for a message that came to my phone earlier in the morning. He was a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, a citizen of the Netherlands. He had a patient who admitted her to Amsterdam in the Netherlands, and they said that her patient was in severe condition, that she wanted to bring her to Turkey, and that the doctors there could only take her on a private plane, and that the ambulance could take her on a private plane. I called friends from our Ministry of Health, friends in charge, and after I got the patient's phone, they came back to me about an hour later, and they told me that they had been interviewing the patient's doctors, that the ambulance was in the air, that the patient would be back in our country in about a few hours. In the evening, the patient, in a happy way, called me from a hospital room in Ankara, where his daughter was being treated, and said: "Mr. Congressman, thank you very much, because of you, I have seen again how powerful my state is. I am proud to be a citizen of the Republic of Turkey. As a member of the AK PARTI, I was proud of our services and where we came from, as a citizen of the Republic of Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm sure my fellow lawmakers will be proud of that, too. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0014par0166	Thank you, Mr. Ayalan. Mr. Fuat Blackbird.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0015par0169	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the 2012 budget of the Border and Coastal Health Department. I hereby salute our beloved nation and your grand delegation. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as they know, Turkey's General Health Directorate of Borders and Coasts is a special budgetary institution in the Ministry of Health. Its primary task is to prevent infectious diseases, based on the basis of the Border and Coastal Health Directorate, which is the age of our country's struggle to prevent infectious diseases, despite its taking and continuing its work under that name in 1924. The beginning of this struggle was the year 1838. It is the Quarantine Assembly, founded by order of Mahmoud. Following a number of changes in duties and names since its establishment, the Office of General Health Department of Border and Sevahil Medical Directorship has been changed after the Lausanne Agreement. If we list some of the tasks of this General Directorate, which has the mission to use international agreements to contribute to the protection of our country and world health, to use international agreements to provide health inspections with the Turkish Straits and coasts, to provide international valid certificates, to prevent infectious and epidemic diseases from entering our country, some of the services of international ships and aircraft are practical implementation, to regulate international health documents, to remove health reports from ship and aircraft, to provide funeral transports, international transports, Tele Healthcare services, and inspections from Turkish ships. It led to the change of the ages, the end of countries and empires, and even the end of wars, when it descended on the foundations of infectious diseases, the problem of the whole world. The most important cause of mass death in the world, infectious diseases, not only affect human health, but also impact the country's economy and tourism. The world today faces many diseases such as AIDS, pandemic flu, anthrax, malaria, yellow fever, SARS, type A H1N1 and problems. Health inspection and travel health centres where the vaccines and drugs are applied for the protection of our citizens, both to prevent these diseases from entering our country and to protect those countries, are the units of the Border and Coastal Health Directorate. In appreciation of our going abroad for work or travel, we are able to receive all health information on the country we are going to go to on a telephone or Internet, apply the necessary measures, learn the necessary vaccines and drugs immediately, and get travel health advice and vaccines for free. The e-government system has been effectively used since 2009. Employees are not allowed to collect and spend revenues. In the early years, bad impressions of the institution have been destroyed and given dignity. The contract has been signed with two tenders of motorboats ready for medical attention. Missions stemming from international agreements are effectively used. Some 55,000 health inspections are conducted in Turkish Straits and ports annually. Staff training is considered important. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I wish the 2012 budget to bring blessings to our country and our beloved nation, and to all the employees of the Borders and Coasts Health Department, and my compliments to your grand delegation.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0016par0180	Thank you, Mr. Blackbird. Mr. Abdulkerim Gök.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0017par0183	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Sir, of course I have made a commitment to the Ministry of Development's budget. There's a point in saying that I thought, in particular, in five minutes, how much I can tell you about the improvements in the concept of moving. Really, today, there is serious development in every part of the country. I'd like to share my thoughts and feelings with you in plain terms, in the idea of being spontaneous. I want to make it very clear that I have no intention of responding to my congressman friends. There is no democracy in particular, no freedom, no progress, no development. It is said that the heart desires that there is, but it is not enough. I will understand it, and really, at the point where it is not enough, it is a more advanced democracy, because yesterday, when there were discussions and conversations, Kurdish anecdotes were mentioned. These weren't there ten years ago, these were unimaginable. From this bench, thankfully, people from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey now express their feelings and thoughts without interference and freedom. So there's democracy, there's development, there's growth, there's progress. That's why we say that in this country... but is it enough? If you say it's not enough, of course it's not enough. We know it's not enough, and therefore, as all ministries, we continue all our work within the framework of the AK PARTY governments, with all our might. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the Ministry of Development, especially in my constituency of the election, are continuing very important developments, very important projects. There are significant developments in the GAP scope of Şanliurfa. I'd like to share with you a little bit of the GAP developments: These are inevitable, especially when the GAP is completed and the development of the Ceylanpınar State Production Farm, which is the largest area with 1,780,000 hectares, is put in full power, when the irrigation project in Şanlıurfa-Suruc district is fully operational and completed in 2012, and of course, employment in the region will take place at the maximum stage. I would like to express my undying thanks to the bureaucrats and their colleagues, our Minister, especially because of the work the Ministry of Development has done under the GAP. Of course, no matter how you start the day under the House. I'd like to talk a lot about the Ministry of Development developments in the country, such as GAP, DAP, KOP, DOCAP. And in the future, as soon as I have a chance to tell you about it, I'll try to pass it on to you in a more detailed study. Mr. President, with your permission, I'd like to share with you this morning the advice that Sheikh Edebali, even though it's all for the sake of a positive start of the day: No knowledge, no knowledge, no knowledge, and you will be grieved. You don't know the manners, you don't know the limits, you're sad. Don't befriend the greedy: You don't pay, you don't know the rules, you don't want to be satisfied, you get upset.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0018par0197	Look over there, over there!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0017par0198	▪ Don't be friendly with the unsightly: You don't know the way, you don't know the way, you don't know the rules, you're sad. You don't know, you don't know, you don't know, you're sad. He talks a lot, he talks a lot, he talks a lot, you get upset. He knows no courage, no courage, no friends, and you will be sad. Know the knowledge, know the wisdom, know the words. Take it, take it, take it, take it. Take it easy, take it easy, take it easy. Way to go, way to go. Don't worry, don't worry, don't worry. Don't talk too much, don't talk too much, don't talk too much. Be brave, be brave. Don't let anyone down. I'm telling you, that's enough for a lifetime. I hereby salute your high council.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0019par0217	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Canan Candemir Steel.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0020par0220	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on the 2012 budget of the Turkish Statistical Agency. I salute your high council. Statistical data is information that allows us to grasp our past situation objectively and accurately today and to predict the future. In managing the development process, he cares deeply about our statistics, and we see the idea of development and the production of statistics as complementary elements. The reliable and timely information is a strategic resource for the private sector and civil society as well as for the public. Healthy statistics are also essential to the right of public accountability in a democratic environment. The main institution of responsibility for the production of current and reliable data in our country is TÜİK (TİK). This institution is responsible for the production of official statistics and co-ordination of official statistical activities conducted by other institutions and organisations. The Bookstore, founded in 1389, is the nuclei of today's Statistical Institute. Since its establishment in 1926, TÜİK has supported efforts to produce data for the use of decision-makers and citizens, to plan the future with official statistics, to determine the right strategies. One of the key criteria for the credibility of statistics is that each stage of production and publication is in line with international norms. This is also the only condition of international relativity. The European Union's statistical system was adapted in 1999. In 2005, the planned statistical production process began, describing the location of other institutions in the statistical production process, and the coordination of these institutions from a single centre and the quality of statistical data increased, ending the production of multi-species data. In statistics production, international professional and moral rules apply and apply in our country. In line with national and international needs, TÜİK is expanding the range of statistical production and detailing current data, while continuing to work closely with all public institutions and institutions responsible for the Official Statistics Programme. A draft was created under the official Statistics Programme's preparation for a second five-year plan in 2012-2016. The work has been carried out in intensive co-ordination with relevant institutions. I wish that the programme, which will take effect in 2012, will be good for our country already. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, information is a strategic source. The social process from agriculture to industrial society is now headed towards the information society. However, statistics have become a universal language of speech. In order to provide services in the new state understanding, information must first be collected, processed, and distributed quickly between public institutions tasked with providing services and cost effectively. Therefore, the use of data information among public institutions is a crucial and priority step on the road to e-government. In this way, the task of the TÜİK (TİK) is especially valued in our time. TÜİK has a basic function in the creation of the national information system and information processing infrastructure in our country with its tasks and functions. TÜİK aims to act in our country's activities using the newest technology products the age requires to adapt itself to global competitive conditions in every field in time. That is why it is important for TÜİK to monitor the world constantly, review the statistical information system and IT infrastructure, to accelerate the breakthroughs. AS an internationally modern and respected statistical organisation, TÜİK will undoubtedly continue its breakthroughs in improving the quality of legal technical infrastructure and products so far. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you for the well-being of the 2012 budget of the TÜİK (TİSK), acting on the vision of building a strong, sustainable statistical system.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0021par0232	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Mardin MP Abdurrahim Akdağ.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0022par0235	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budgets of the GAP and DAP regional development administrations. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, the main function of regional development administrations is to ensure effective implementation of the services of planning, projecting, research, monitoring, evaluation and coordination at the local level and to carry out the necessary direction. The Southeast Anatolia Project (GAP) and the East Anatolia Project (DAP) aim to improve the income level of the region's people and their quality of life, and to address intergalactic differences. Dear lawmakers, investments in the DAP have gained great momentum since 2006. Expenses are $868m in 2006, $2.4m in 2010, 2.1 billion in the end of 2011. The Eastern Anatolia Project, covering 14 provinces, is intended to be completed by 2013. Construction of 22 dams and 12 hydropower plants and irrigation networks has been envisioned under the GAP. The completion of the GAP will open up to 1.8 million hectares of watering, producing 27 billion kilowatts of hydroelectric energy per year. A total of 3.8 million people will receive employment opportunities in the region. The need for funding for public investments to achieve these goals is 42 billion TL ($10) at 2010 prices. An average of 7 per cent of public investment in projects in the GAP region of 1990-2007 has been divided by twice as much due to the implementation of the GAP Action Plan (GAP) as a result of Mr. Prime Minister's emphasis on the development of the region. Investments in the region were earmarked for $13.3 billion in cumulatively during 2008-2011. By the end of 2010, $33.7 billion has been spent, and the rate of liquidity has reached 80 per cent. The GAP Action Plan, prepared with local initiatives under consideration, consists of more than 300 things under 73 main actions. A total of $3.8 billion was spent on projects and activities as part of the GAP Action Plan in 2010. In 2011, the source for investments in the GAP region is around 4.3 billion TL. With the Action Plan providing the necessary funding, the ongoing irrigation networks are rapidly being completed. The 2011 investment is scheduled to be completed in 2016. As of 2011, ten hydropower plants were completed and 74 per cent of GAP energy investments were conducted. By the end of October 2011, 351.5 billion kilowatts of electricity was provided for by the construction of the hydroelectric power plant and a significant portion of our country's need for hydroelectric energy from GAP. The monetary value of this energy produced is 21.1 billion dollars. Dear lawmakers, the construction of seven main channels with a total length of 639km and serving 498,728 hectares is under way. The Lower Firat, which includes Mardin, was brought to Urbana, where water capable of 328 cubic metres per second with the Ataturk Dam and Şanlıurfa tunnels in the 2nd Merhale Project. The 136km transmission channel, which was launched in 2009, was intended to end in 2012, which included the Mardin Kızıltepe Plain and described as the Crazy Project. Projects and productions continue according to the business programme, including project productions of 67,000 hectares, 30,000 hectares, within the province of Mardin. With the Mardin Pumpage Watering Project, 160,000 people will be employed in the region, which will contribute to the economy of 240m euros a year. In addition, the tenders were held in Cizre, Cizre, İdil, Silopi irrigation areas, which were planned to be finished in 2012. Mardin and Adıyaman, which began in 2011 as part of their physical infrastructure work...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0023par0252	Thank you, Mr. Akdağ.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0022par0253	In this context, I wish you all the best in our 2012 budget for our country.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0023par0255	Mr. Huseyin doesn't get upset.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0024par0257	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Ministry of Development's KOP Administration on the budget of 2012. I salute you all. For many years, the Iconian Plain Project, which has been closely monitored by the public, was established in the central province of Konya, with the head of the Regional Development Administration, which was issued on 8 June 2011. The region of the Administration, which will operate under the Ministry of Development, includes the provinces of Konya, Karaman, Niğde and Aksaray. A total of 40,000 square miles cover the entire rural and urban area. There are 3.5 million populations in the region, 70 per cent of which belong to the province of Iconium. Turkey's rural population is 32 per cent, while rural residents are 42 per cent, so the rural area is far above the average of Turkey in this region. Dear friends, I'd like to tell you a little bit about the history of the KOP project. This project is one of two projects that are over a hundred years in the province of Iconia. In the 1890s, it was planned to water the Plains of Iconium in the period of Ferit Paşa of Avlonian, where the value of water was always appreciated. There are even people with crazy projects at the time, including Skull Mehmet Efendi. Instead of bringing water from Lake Beyşehir, the Sultan Abdülhamit Khan wants the project to be poured into the Plain of Konya, and these projects will be discussed in the Council of Commerce in 1900 and taken into custody in the Assembly of the Conium Chamber of Commerce, and you will perform the Beyville channel for the first time in the early 1900 years of the Coniya-Bedat Anadolu railway line tendering, while the project of the period's sultan Abdulhamit Khan tenders to the Germans, and says: "You will make it possible for the first time to pour water into the Plain of Konya without any return." Together with this project, two projects become debatable in Iconium. One is a project to water the Plains of Conium, and water from the Plains of Conium. The second is the establishment of the railway line between the Iconia-Ankara. Here's the thing that happens in this historic process: for many years, these projects are brought up by different governments, and each election is set before us as a promise of choice, and forgotten after the election. But as of 2002, since the AK PARTY administrations, our governments understand the importance of this, and under the leadership of our Prime Minister, they implement both projects. I'd like to express an anecdote here, dear friends. As a friend of yours, a longtime Chairman of the Consolidated Chamber of Commerce, the valued experts of the Undersecretary of State Planning know this, we've sent it, and the answer given to us about these projects is: please don't deal with these dreams, these are imaginations. They're even offered KOP, a key part of the KOP project, the Blue Tunnel. As a result of the tender, these funds will be issued in 70 years. Dear friends, these two important projects of Iconia will be carried out under the leadership of our Prime Minister during the period of the EC PARTY governments. The fast train has begun to work; it has now become an important project for Turkey. In the other project, the Blue Tunnel, the most important foot, was auctioned off, hopefully water will be poured out within a month. I told our Prime Minister who carried out these two projects and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... I'd like to welcome our AK PARTY governments. On this occasion, I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0025par0268	Thank you, Mr. Sadness. Mr. Nihat Zeybekci, Denizli MP.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0026par0271	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the budget of the current Ministry of Customs and Trade. I hereby salute your high council. Today, I also salute the honorable Council of my great nation, and the Court of the Three Honourable Ladies.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0025par0274	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0026par0275	Throughout the history of mankind, the paradise we live in has always been the most important political and strategic center in the world, but also the area where the world's most important trade, raw matter, energy, culture transfers pass and are made. That's why all of humanity's powers have always been on this land. But no nation has ever paid as much for this country as we have, and has not deserved it as we have, and has not loved it as much as we have. Today, this land, dominated by our Republic of Turkey, is linked to the Mediterranean Ocean of Atlas, a port of the new world, with its efficiency and value growing without diminishing throughout its known history, and India and China, the border to the Pacific Ocean. Today, this means that the world is now flattened, raising its attention in the globalized world. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, on our blessed journey with these advantages, the process of our country today has reached unimaginable levels compared to 2002. But before we move on to our goals, 2023, we believe that we should be grateful to the late Turgut Özal, who, for the first time reminded this nation of his will, is the nation, who motivated the late democracy martyr, Adnan Menderes, who taught Anatolia to export, and who understood the importance of trade. On the other hand, I'm giving you five more than they're paying. I remind you that we should never forget the political concepts that mortgage future generations by retiring our people at the age of thirty-five, thirty-eight. Mr. President, the honorable Regents of my great nation, one of the best examples of our country's origin today is our naval province. Today, our province, which single-handedly exported $3 billion in Turkish exports in 1980, aims to achieve a total of 2 million tourists entering Pamukkale in 2001, making its 2023 targets as the number of 10 million tourists in the country's 100th year to achieve 500 billion dollars exports in our country, only our Denizli could reach $15 billion in foreign trade and tourism revenues, with only 2 million in the number of tourists entering Pamukkale. The nation's belief is that this understanding of governance, which brought exports from $35 billion to $135 billion in 2002 today, will meet the goal of $500 billion exports, and the nation's belief that the country's 26th economy of the world in 2002 will rise above the $1 trillion of its children, bringing in the foreign trade volume in 2002 for $330 billion. In the future, our Turkey will take its rightful place in the world trade with its brands as a country of democracy, freedoms, universal law and peace, as it has since become a country of state-wide understanding, producing, trading, exporting, exporting, exporting to our culture and history. Respected lawmakers, our governments, who have served with an understanding of trade men since 2002, have created the structure of Turkey to move Turkey to 2023, with the new configuration of our Ministry on 8 June 2011. The nations who have made it a habit to look for ways to live without working, tireless, and unproducing; they are doomed to lose their sensitivity, then their freedom, then their future. The words of Gazi Mustafa Ataturk, who has set out to us as a target for peaceful civilization, are in our ears. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With that understanding, Turkey celebrates our customs and the change architects of our trade world, especially our Minister, who has led us to the goals of the world of 2023, and wishes to continue its success, with which I respectfully salute your grand delegation, wishing that our 2012 budget should be a blessing.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0027par0282	Thank you, Mr. Zeybekci. Adıyaman MP Muhammad Murtaza Kır.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0028par0285	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the financial institution budget of 2012. I salute you all. As it is known, the Competitiveness Agency, which is obliged to implement the Law on the Protection of Competitiveness 4054, performs important tasks for our country's economy. The institution has two basic functions in practice: One is preventing competitive violations of the abuse of the judge's situation by inter-integration agreements, harmonised actions and decisions, and the other is controlling concentration of economic markets through control of the takeovers. As we look at its activities during 2011, we see that the Competitive Association has made significant decisions. In this period, he often mentioned his name, especially in his investigations into mobile phone business, banking services, daily newspaper ads, and automotive sectors. Such as giving him an opinion on the drafts of legislation, better understanding of markets, better understanding of market defects and solution proposals, and doing research in various sectors, and some of the same issues are among the key activities of the Competitive Institution. Through these activities, as part of competition advocates, the institution has moved public opinion towards a more competitive country's economy and has taken on an important role in preventing possible competitive violations. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as it is known, one of the chapters in our negotiation process with the European Union is the policy of competition. The competitive rules, which are an important part of the competition policy chapter, are also considered in this chapter. The progress reports, which have been prepared by the European Commission and have been evaluated by many elements, such as the harmonisation of our country's legislation, the implementation of legislation, and the capacities of the units to implement legislation, include very positive assessments for the Competitiveness Institution, which is generally obliged to implement these legislation. As a matter of fact, in this year's Progress Report, it is clear that the Competitive Institution has a good record of adapting to competitive rules, that the Competitive Institution has a high administrative capacity, and that the institution has implemented the rules of competition with effective and satisfactory independence. I'd like to point out that it's very flattering and important for the stability of the country's economy to have achieved this success both within the country and especially in the context of the integration process of the European Union in a short period of time, which began its operation nearly 14 years ago. It also does not refuse to share its knowledge and experience with countries in need. At this point, Mongolia provides technical support in various formats to different countries in a large geography from Egypt to Egypt. In addition, a variety of studies have been conducted in the countries of the Islamic Association for Co-operation to build capacity in the field of competitive law and policy. He thinks it's important that the Competition Foundation, which recently implemented its reconstruction, has increased its efficiency, and as the EC PARTY, I want to say that our support for this direction is complete. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0029par0294	Thank you, Mr. Catcher. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mersin MP Ali Öz; please come in.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0030par0297	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the 2012 Health Ministry financial budget year talks. I salute the High Council. By the way, Mr. Dr. Ahmet Ihsan, we have learned with regret that Crimeanlı is dead; as the National Movement Party Group, we ask for mercy for the deceased and patience for the Crimean Turks. On this occasion, I wish the budget to be a blessing to our country, to our nation, to our Parliament, to all health workers. For three semesters, I have to express what our Ministry of Health has done, what the Change in Health Program has brought and taken. Health care must be carried out by a plan aimed at the satisfaction of those who provide as much service as each citizen has the right to equal access, which must be planned for the benefit of the individual. Statistically speaking, most of the problems seem to have been solved. Preliminary Health Transformation Program is considered a victim of patient-medicine, and health funding appears to have been collected under one roof from multiple and fragmented structures. Pre-medication project, without looking for quality and quantity, fixed payment, nonregisterity, wasteful time, long waiting time, unnecessary transports, knife money, failure in emergency services, regional service deficits and imbalances, common practice, carelessness hospitals, and common ward-type rooms and medical equipment are considered to be the main problems of our country. Meanwhile, the lack of private sector share in the presentation of healthcare services, the systemless determination of pharmaceutical prices, the lack of motivation of employees, the primary preference for hospitals in examinations is considered significant, while we think it is our Parliament's right and our nation's right to expect these problems to be overcome in nine years with the Ministry of Health practices. Dear lawmakers, there has been a radical change of understanding in our health care system with Law 663, which directly affects about 1 million citizens, some 700,000 health workers, and 74 million people living in our country. The health policy of the republic's era has been abandoned, giving priority to social understanding and protective health care. A sense of merchant logic and organisation of health care that prioritizes the entire profit-harm account of Resolution 663. The employment of government officers working under contract executives who have been brought with an uncertain framework for administrative construction has been opened. This decree also opened the way to employ foreign doctors and foreign nurses. This practice will not suit our country's sociocultural structure. It is a sin for a foreign doctor to serve in the field of health without knowing social norms. This legal arrangement will also damage the employment of our doctors and nurses and will be billed to citizens. Our own resources must be used in a planned manner. The quotas in medical schools must be increased and the imbalances in the doctor's distribution must be removed, otherwise a great deal of damage will be done to public health. The staff of 461 branch managers, 149 clinical chiefs and assistant chiefs, 444 hospital managers, 904 vice hospital administrators, 28 municipal health managers, 40 EPK specialists, 3 general managers, 21 vice presidents and 42 office heads have been cancelled. We have concerns as to how to compensate for the loss of between 500 and 1,500 euros in salary and return capital additional payments of interested personnel who will be assigned to the investigative staff to determine what objective criteria will be based on the identification of the new casts that have been cancelled, and that will create a new staffing process. At least a year in the contracting status of midwifes and nurses under Code 663. The sentence has been passed and has led to many midwifes and nurses who have been unable to benefit from it and suffer from it. This is also against the principle of equality in front of the law. The application of family medicine that was initiated was particularly appealing to our people, and the absence of examination participation in the first stage of the application led patients to family physicians at this point. Our physicians were motivated to gain family medicine status in the early applications, but over the time, new sanctions in practice have both reduced their income and corrupted their motivations. Family physicians have turned into contracted private practice status with the state, which pays their own work rent, provides their own medical equipment, finances electricity, water, communications and accounting fees. A pharmacy has been opened near each family physician's office, which has increased the use of medicine and brought additional burden to the budget. Our physicians who worked in the 112 Emergency Services have a low salary. Stations are having trouble getting to the case due to lack of equipment, equipment, vehicles, and personnel. ▪ Private health care providers offer services to our citizens without being paid notice. • The claim does not reflect much truth. When we look in the field, private hospitals demand a difference in labs, radiology and surgical initiatives, except for the participation of the examination. Meanwhile, the fact that private hospitals have not had an increase in their earnings in the Health Applied Service for a long time -- three or five years -- has also troubled these businesses. Private hospitals are not happy with health policies, the burden is on citizens. Dear lawmakers, we have reduced the health ministry's prices, facilitated drug access. The claim is that the recent decisions indicate that we are moving in the right direction as long as the pharmacists and citizens face each other. And since we've been tracking it in the press for two or three days, especially diabetes and cancer patients have been complaining about not finding their medications. Pharmaceuticals are not bothered by the decline of drug prices, but because they're hurting the institution with high discounts, the government is their biggest client. Pharmaceuticals, on the other hand, are not only drug-selling shops but also psychologists who contribute to public health and the enlightenment of patients. It is our government's duty to address the victims of this division, both to our citizens and to the pharmacists. Pharmaceutical operating costs must be updated rationally. Our pharmacists' rights of essence must be improved. Troubles in the Medusa system must be resolved, domestic manufacturers must be protected, return to national pharmaceutical policy immediately. National pharmaceutical factories should increase RD studies and improve their product range. National pharmaceutical producers should be supported by a number of incentives and conveniences. In times of disaster such as war, embargo, earthquake, the government must play an active role in the production of such drugs in order to produce enough medicine pens to be needed. Hard sanctions should be imposed on the marketing of imported drugs, DGE studies should be encouraged. A rational drug policy should prevent unnecessary drug use. In recent drug policy practices, as has happened in recent years, drug companies have also terminated drug product promoters' duties, including them in the new unemployed army. The place of a physician's profession in maintaining a healthy life is essential without question. The status of our physicians must be assessed by other public officials in this regard. Doctors whose monthly salary is low are forced to take care of more patients because of performance practice and decrease when they are assigned to the patient. They do not have time to listen to the patient, to examine him, to examine him, to assess the results, and to inform the patient. This affects the doctor's motivation, reduces the patient's satisfaction, increases the cost, and then the patient's complaints naturally increase. On the other hand, difficult and difficult patients in hospitals are seen to be being transported, unintended procedures are being avoided, laborful surgical procedures are being avoided. Insurance companies will not want to insure physicians with a high level of malpractice, so doctors will refrain from serving risky patients. According to the laws adopted, the primary goal is to increase hospital revenues. Quality service and research development have become insignificant today. The distribution of rotating capital in hospitals, performance indexed doctor's gains, brought with them serious problems. People who work in areas where it's difficult to assign physicians receive lower return revenues. These injustices must be dealt with, the form of rotating capital distribution must be rearranged, the patient's satisfaction taken into consideration. In health, it would be more appropriate for an application to improve quality without thinking about economic gain. Health is the only place where neglect and mistakes are not compensated for misplanning. We have to think about it and make a decision here. Despite being claimed, people today have to pay more for health care than their pockets. In particular, those with chronic illness, those who often apply to the hospital, have to pay most of their pensions to the admission of examination or to the awareness of prescription medications. In health, the dissolution of personnel remains unstable. New regulations are needed in the area of mandatory service. It is seen that the personnel have a sense of skill in determining internal areas of the hospital, rather than integrity, of membership in certain union institutions, of staffing. These applications should be abandoned as soon as possible. Dear lawmakers, there are extreme political preferences for cleaning service units in our hospitals, hiring security personnel. These employees are under constant threat. They are also required to work for the difficult government in the elections. Social rights are also blocked and subcontractors are left to their consciences, their efforts are exploited. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, in terms of public health, OECD data shows that the baby drops from the past to the present period at the rate of death and the mother's death. In particular, children should continue to study multi-born diseases and try to inoculate them. The number of aircraft ambulances, helicopter ambulances, marine ambulances, palette ambulances is essential. The National Medical Rescue Team must be further supported. The appointment of health workers must be facilitated, and the midwife, nurse, X-ray, and dental technicians who are struggling to find work must be placed into work. According to TÜİK data, the public's share in public health spending is 67.8 per cent, private sector share is 32.2 per cent and mobile health expenditures are 21.8 per cent. The annual number of applications to health facilities increased from 1.7 in 1994 to 7.7 in the 2000s. The number of patients examined in 2002 increased from 184 million to 492 million in 2011. In 2011 alone, the number of annual dental examinations was around 7 million. These figures lead us to the following results: As the state's share of health care presentation is reduced or the private sector's share increases, health expenditure per person is increasing, and it is difficult for the state to finance health care. In this case, it is inevitable for a citizen to give a piece of paper. As the number of applications increases, the need for more rational health policies increases, the use of rational medicine and protective care are more important. Therefore, the state must continue to offer health care. It's also the need to be a social government. Hospital troops and hospital privatisations that will follow must be abandoned. Otherwise, the public's interest in health care will be increased, and it will be made to make sense of "whatever he does with no money." Private hospitals from social security institutions were paid $4.3 billion in 2008. Health payments to private hospitals increased 9.4 times when compared to 2002-2009. The annual growth rate of private hospitals is 12 percent. This is a truly meaningful risk for our country compared with other countries. This practice also brought audits to private financial advisors in the study of private hospital prices. This practice will reduce the rate of cuts from private hospital bills as a result of institutional reviews, causing unfair payments and institutional damages, even co-operation and irregularities among private hospital-special financial advisors. My dear friends express my gratitude and thanks, especially to the physicians who raised us... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I strongly demand that the professors at our universities take advantage of the full-time law at least be paid in a way that suits human honor. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0031par0341	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr Mehmet Günal, MP of Antalya.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0032par0344	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation and the great Turkish nation. My dear friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the Ministry of Development and the TİK budget. Before I begin my speech, I remember today's budget by the grace and gratitude of Alparslan Turkesh, the founder of our former State Planning Agency, which we discussed, which led to the establishment of many institutions at that time, such as TBITAK, TSE, OYAK, Turkish Cultural January. Of course, in the meantime, since we've lost the DPT, since it's the Ministry of Development, we'll also have to bless the DPT. Now, dear friends, we have a serious loss of consciousness here. The State Planning Agency was a very radical organization. Right now, he just hasn't changed his name. I looked at my records again. And in the 2009 budget, in the 2010 budget -- especially in 2009 -- will you shut down the DPT? Mr. Speaker Cemil Cicek, then as Deputy Prime Minister, was involved in those discussions again. Then again, in the budget talks, Mr. Nazim Ekren, our former minister, we spoke again when we discussed the strategic plan of the DPS. We spoke again when the Economic Co-ordination Board was formed. We spoke again as we discussed the establishment of the Office of Economic Affairs in the prime minister's office. In the end, we got what we said, and that's how the AKP government got out of the DPT. Why do we say that? Let me simply remind you what was in those arguments. ▪ From time to time, our MPs come and ask for funding. Sir, they want some contributions to the investment budget. Our friends are angry because it's not him. We were, of course, demanding the restructuring of the State Planning Agency to become an institution, a policy-building institution that has actually developed strategy for Turkey within the framework of the strategic plan. But with this done, unfortunately, his memory will be wiped out because you've already destroyed all his career expertise with KHK 666. It's not just DPT, it's been done in the Treasury, it's done in other institutions, it's done in its infrastructure. So, everyone became a normal ministry. Of course, there are other issues here, not just the death of this institution. With that, things are going away. What would DPT do? He'd come up with the plan, he'd set up the schedule, he'd set up the investment program. Now, we're looking, we noticed something during the budget debate -- our Minister of Finance isn't here -- but it's about the exact calculation. There's a number on the back-up grants in the Final Account of 2010. We normally predict 500 million. Do you have any idea how long it's gonna take for the end of the semester to happen? No. That's because we found it when we were looking. 20.9 appears to have been transferred from the budget to other investments under a total of 21 billion reserves. Why am I saying this? I asked the Minister -- he came in the process -- how much, what's the detail of that? I'm going to go over the details of this when we're meeting in the matter, but why is it important here? In contrast to the investment allocations that we, as Parliament, have given them as Plan and Budget Commission and the DPS, the Finance Ministry is transferring more than a third of its own budget to other funds, other investments, other expenses. Now, is it possible to talk about any investment allocations or budget rights here? You're confirming the number here, and there's a lot of political debates going on there, and there's a lot going on, and there's a lot going on, and there's a lot going on, and there's a lot going on, and there's a lot going on, and there's a lot going on, and there's a lot going on, and there's a lot going on, and there's a lot going on, and there's a lot going on, and there's a lot going on, and there's a lot going on, and there's a lot going on. Really, it's a terrible situation. I'll give you another number, compare it to how the House is being robbed of its rights. What's the total investment at current prices in 2010? 44.5 billion. So about a third of the total public investments are distributed by the Finance Minister with his own discretion. There is also abuse of the power vested in addition to the extortion of a budget. Unfortunately, I told you the House had a right to lift a finger, and you hijacked it with a decree of the law. He doesn't even ask you to lift a finger. The Prime Minister is signing it and sending it. We've been neutralized here as Plan Budget Commission. We're doing a budget here, DPT is preparing a program, he's preparing an investment programme, but with a signature, the Finance Minister can transfer one-third of that budget, one-third of the total public investment from there. That's not gonna happen. We don't know about 2011, we've asked about those numbers, the details haven't come in yet -- the 2010 figures -- which need to be explained in detail to the public, the Court needs to be accounted for. We're looking at the Court's fitness statement, and the Court hasn't already audited most institutions, and has issued an appropriate notification through the account. There's restructuring there. This restructuring is costing us a lot of money, costing us uncoordinatement between institutions. Dear friends, by the way, we said something else: the preparation of the Central Future Plan. Our friends have spoken. We're saying it's a joke, Bari, you're doing it in October, so let's make up the law here. They've added friends to one of the laws of the law. Now it'll be late September, early September, middle of September, late September. So we've made up the actual situation, the law ourselves, and, unrelated to the IRS, we've found it difficult to put these in the middle of a ruling that has nothing to do with the IRS, with all its employees, with its controllers, with its audits, with nothing to do with the IRS. And that was September. Well, now, you see, in May, the DPT had a DHK, and it still says "mamas" there. So there's nothing that's been released in June, nothing that's been released yet; at the beginning of the budget, at the end of October, we ask the Finance Minister, and he says nothing; two days later, on November 2nd, he's been put in between anything. Now, you've shut it down here because the DPT has no meaning. In fact, if what we're doing, the laws we're making here, if they're not going to do any good, the laws you've made yourself... There's budgetary rights, there's how to transfer funds, and it talks about subsidies in Article 23, and it talks about transfers in 21, and it talks about principles in 11. Parliament's budget rights are the most important rights. So there's no way we can solve these problems with this structure here. Of course, how are you going to solve the problems here in the economy? How are we going to do that if you don't obey your own laws, regulations, regulations? We ran out of feathers because of the reconstruction in the economy. We have it in all our statements, the Party Program. Well, now you've done a reconstruction. Is it possible to coordinate with this structure? You've established the Economic Co-ordination Board. Now, we're looking, the Ministry of Development is here, and the Minister is here, and Customs Trade is here. Two of them are here. There's also the Ministry of Economics, there's the industrial part of Science, Industry and Technology, and there's the Deputy Prime Minister, who's in charge of the economy. Now, would such a multi-headed reconstruction occur? The National Movement Party also said to set up the ministry of economics. That's what we have suggestions for, and it's not new. But the Ministry of Economics here, dear friends, is supposed to be in a different way. The Ministry of Economics here is of no use to us in that way. There's no economy in the Ministry of Economy, no foreign trade, only exports in part, no Eximbank, not customs here in Mr. Yazbi. According to the person, you've created a ministry configuration. Yes, we, the National Movement Party, have said that the Economist Ministry should be established as well as the Economist Ministry, which is also part of our 2011 Election Act. But how was it supposed to be? Here's the part about the budget's income and expenditure application in the Treasury Department. The implementation of industrial and domestic trade and the development of foreign trade would be separate from the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Other than that, implementation of economic policies, debt management, privatisation, public banks, SPK, BDDK, Central Bank, other institutions should be in the Ministry of Economy. And then there's the Deputy Prime Minister. It's all over their heads. One says, "Let's not waste money." One says, "Let's drop interest." The other says, "Let's not drop interest." Then the president of the Federal Reserve comes out and says something else. Unfortunately, my dear friends, it's impossible for us to manage the economy and minimize the effects of this crisis. Structural reforms can't be done with this mess. With this understanding of governance, confusion, the current problem that you're starting to call a structural problem can't be solved. This understanding will increase employment, reduce unemployment, and what you call a high-tech growth strategy cannot be implemented. Because everyone's eyes are different, the ministers' interests are different, and unfortunately, they're uncoordinated. From the decisions that have been made, you can tell from the decisions that have not been made. Because a compromise can't be reached, or a decision will soon be changed by another decree, with another proposal of the law. Unfortunately, neither the Court, nor the Court, which should be inspecting for us this year -- they'll only probably start in the next year -- and in 2011, there were no inspections, and they're avoiding them with training. I'd like to say a few words about the Turkish Statistical Agency, and I'm running out of time. Mr. President, we've told you here on the Commission, we have a serious statistical problem. First of all, I'd like to point out that the restructuring of the ministries that I just said... our friends from the Plan and Budget Commission are here. Now that we're looking, the Ministry's name has been changed. Next year we won't be able to see those budgets side by side. And this year, we can't see it now, we're looking at it from a precise account. The Ministry's name has been changed: the Ministry of Customs and Commerce. Well, good. So where was he last time? Undersecretary of Customs. Now, how am I supposed to compare those budgets? Mr. TÜİK President, if he could at least look at the institutions of these ministries with the IRS, a comparison to the past... Two: There's a data disturbance in all public institutions, and they need to be kept in a rudimentary state. Between public institutions, what they're going to tell us now, there's no deal, there's no data sharing, but unfortunately we see a problem with the application. They need to be kept in a rudimentary state, to be comparable, and to be transparently shared with the public. The other thing is, I'd like to say a few words about the GAP. My friends will go over the details, but we've seen it move very slowly. Unfortunately for 2013, as planned, there's no way it'll be finished. The grants are inconclusive, no matter how much we transfer them. A political will also needs to be shown and the incomplete projects must be completed immediately. Also, the development agencies associated with this, unfortunately, that original corporate philosophy, are not working for its purpose. The expected results are inconclusive of efforts to address the gaps in intergalactic development. The structure and function of these agencies must also be reviewed and reduce the difference in intergalactic development. In short, with this understanding, with this confusion, with this mess, the Justice and Development Party's Government can't solve structural problems, Turkey's basic current open problem, the unemployment problem and the private sector debt problem and the risk, and I'm offering all of you with respect to the best of the budget.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit02spe0033par0365	Thank you, Mr. Günal. I'm taking a break from the merger until 13.30.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0033par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the 2012 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2010 Central Management Computation Bill. [[Continue]] .)... the national... Ü) MADEN DETECTIVE AND EARLIER GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY Commission? Here. Government? Here. We will now begin the seventh round of talks. The seventh round includes the Ministry of Economics, the Undersecretary of Foreign Trade, the Centre for Exporting, the Ministry of the European Union, the Secretary General of the European Union, the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, the Energy Market Editing Institution, the National Institute for Research, the Executive Directorate of Electric Affairs, the National Atomic Energy Agency of Turkey, the Office of Mines and Research, the General Directorate of Oil. Members of parliament must write the passwords to ask questions about the budgets involved in the tour until the end of the talks, and then press the promise-seeking button on the screen after introducing their fingerprints. It's for your information. In the seventh round, I read the names of the members of the group and its individuals: On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group: Mush MP Mr. Demir Çelik, the deadline is 15 minutes; Mersin MP Mr. Ertuğul Kürçı, the period is 15 minutes; Diyarbakır MP Mr. Emine Mirror, 20 minutes. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group: Müğla MP Ali Kullı, 5 minutes; Isparta MP Mr. Sıyya Sadi Bilgiç, five minutes; Ankara MP Nazmi Haluk Özdalga, five minutes; Diyarbakır MP Mehmet Galip Ensarioğlu, five minutes; Balıkesir MP Mr. Ahmet Edip Uğur, five minutes; Kütahya MP Mr. Soner Aksoy, five minutes; Gaziantep MP Mr. Halal Mazıoğlu, five minutes; Kastamon MP Mustafa Gökhan Gülşen, five minutes; Bay Mustafa Gökşen, five minutes; Siirt MP Mr. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group: Denizli MP Mr. Emin Haluk Ayhan, 15 minutes; Samuel MP Mr. Lütfü Türkkan, ten minutes; Bursa MP Mr. Necati Özensoy, fifteen minutes; Kastamonu MP Mr. Emin Çınar, ten minutes. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group: İstanbul MP Müslim Sarı, ten minutes; İstanbul MP Şafak Pavey, ten minutes; İstanbul MP Durdu Özbolat, 10 minutes; Adana MP Mr. Umit Özgüşmiş, seven minutes; Edirne MP Mr. Kemal Değirmedeli, six minutes; Aydın MP Osman Aydın, seven minutes. Subjects: Karaman MP Mr. Lütfi Elvan, five minutes; Mr. Demir Çelik, five minutes against you. The first word on behalf of the groups is for the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Demir Çelik. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0034par0053	Mr. President, my esteemed congresswoman friends, I have made a commitment to the economy ministry's 2012 budget. On behalf of myself and my party, I salute you with respect and love. The economy has been an important science for mankind throughout history. The social science economy has been the basis for the maintenance of human life, independent of the production of goods and services within the thousands of years of our ecosystem's historical history. But when society turns into a hierarchical relationship, the economy is subject to hegemonic relationships, like other positive sciences that need to be served in the adult and ruling centers, then it becomes more likely to serve a position that serves to maintain power, capital than it needs to sustain human life. In this way, whether it's a primitive communist society or a feudal society, whether it's a capitalist society that we've passed through, each system has an economic policy. Today's basic perception and approach is the existence of private property on production tools, despite the socialized production style. This paradox is a contradiction that has been producing wealth for centuries, while its other side remains a contradiction that continues to produce poverty, hunger, and misery. When we approach the overall budget of 2012 and in particular the budget of the Ministry of Economics, we can see that it is very easy to see that it is prepared with a perception and a mindset that ignores the human being, which is human, which is not human rather than a understanding of the basic needs of society, or the power of capital as a whole, or, as a whole, strengthens the power and the power of society as a whole, that ignores what is social. We don't think that's true. In the end, even the organization we call the state is for the happiness of man, for the prosperity of man, for the wealth of man. While the state should be a slave, a slave, a man should be a servant, the state is blessed, so private capital and private capital are based on profit, power, but we face a reality where labor, knowledge and society are ignored, dear friends. Dear MPs, Mr. President, the economy is funded by land, labour, capital and knowledge. Are we going to use the land for a sustainable economic relationship, a resource that can be used, power and profit greed, that is not infinite, that we are at risk of being consumed even today? We're going to try to produce a plus value on these resources, but we're going to approach the problem with a number of bans and sieges that will deprive him of his democratic, libertarian understanding of the basic needs of labor? That's what this High Council should be deciding before anyone else. We, lawmakers of society, if we are the reflection and mirror of society, are the people we will take into account, the society itself, but it is a country that we can brag about when we are growing up to be the number of economic powers of the world, and when we are able to do so, it is the country itself, but in the order of the budget, which is not to be seen by these human and social needs, it's not to be seen by people, it's a part of understanding, it's a part of the ruling mind, it's a part of education, it's a part of education, it's a part of the way, it's a whole range of the world, and it's a kind of how we're proud to be able to build up, and it's a whole range of human life. You're going to have 16th economic power on one side, and instead of giving your people welfare, happiness in the 90th place, you're going to get unemployment, hunger and misery. At this point, lawmakers, at 7.5 per cent expected growth in today's real conditions, we will face the reality of a country with about 25 million poor citizens at the point of the human life index, including employees in both seasonal workers and temp positions, despite the official record of our unemployment. Are we going to approach this reality with understanding and perception that will transform it in the favor of our society and our people, or are we going to approach the problem with a number of arguments and methods that make the rich richer, knowing what exists, and making the poor even poor even more poor? I think it's more of a matter for our great House to decide than anyone else. Since it's up to us and I'm speaking on behalf of the group as the Council should, I'd like to share my thoughts with you. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers are both the budget itself and the second basic paradox we will see in approach to the budget of the Ministry of Economics is the dilemma between imports and exports. Imports are at a point where the predicted exports are doubled. What does that mean? This is a society that's been ripped out of production, a society condemned to consumption, a relationship that you can sell over them, where metas, raw materials, and intermediaries can be bought and imported. Congressmans, a society without production will not suffer a social trauma at the point of the consumption of property alone. The society without production, the culture, the art, the literature, as a whole, will not produce social enlightenment, but will consume it. In that way, instead of a perception and a position that should be consistent with the spirit of change, which prevents him from changing history, we will have led to a perception that condemns us to be a society that protects status quo, feeds status quo, blesses it with our own hands and our own votes. That's the risk, that's the danger. And with this movement, we have to create a country where the poverty limit, unemployment can be removed, hunger and misery destroyed, where the young population in the fields of employment and production is given the opportunity to freely use their own labor, instead of a country where they have no future anxiety, no new doubts, no future anxiety, no self-responsibility, that we have to create, that's our primary mission. If you can't concentrate on that, we'll be suppressing, delaying, delaying the basic demands of society with palliative and temporary solutions. But the problem has the means to solve, to solve, as it does around the world in our country. Dear friends, the economy is not just a social science alone. When you take him away from politics, culture, social and historical fabric, when you reduce him to the sale of goods, of course, you find profit. But economics is also politics, culture, history. And in this respect, at the stage of today's global world, instead of central solid states, we have to take on decentralized structures based on the principle of location and locality. We need to be able to get out of a country where we've been struggling to join and engaged in the European Union for 50 years, when regional and local governments are reluctant to participate on the terms of autonomy. We have to reduce these reservations to administrative and financial custody over local governments, decentralisations, municipal parliaments, municipal councils and municipalities as a whole and financial autonomy, but not enough, we have to be able to get rid of the size of our country's population, the geostrategic and geopolitic position of our country, as well as its developing historical backgrounds, with regional development agencies, which lack administrative and political autonomy. Imagine if we attempt to govern Turkey's economy from Ankara and its heart, its politics and its art as well as its 15 million, if we attempt to govern it from Ankara; if we attempt to manage it with one part of the industry and Sakarya with its agricultural land; if we attempt to govern with it in an important dynamic of Turkey; if we attempt to govern with it, with it, in an important dynamic of Turkey; Bursa, Balıkesir, and Yalova, with its milk-integration facilities; how we can also manage an efficient and sustainable economic relationship; if we attempt to govern with it, with it, with it, with it, with it, with it, with it, in order to form of the island, in order to form of an important dynamic system of agriculture; we can work on the country's ability to form of agriculture, with the population, with the population of humanity, with the populations freedom of humanity, with the populations, with the populations freedoms of humanity, with the population, with the populations freedom of humanity, with the populations freedom, with the populations freedom, with the populations freedom, with the populations. It's easy, we don't have to bury our heads in the sand anymore. To see the truth, we have no choice but to go to new political reforms that fit the truth. When you do, 20 percent of our budget will not go to security or defense. The budget for security, defence will move to education, health, production, economics instead of high-tech weapons and violent vehicles. Won't that serve the future of our children and grandchildren in the best interest of all of us? In this sense, the 2012 budget is once again more than a repeat mission, which is concerned that it will not function any further, that the solution goes through regional autonomous structures, local and regional governments, to a more democratic establishment, and once again, I wish you all good evenings with respect and love.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0035par0066	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Mr. Ertugrul Kürkcı, MP of Mersin. Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0036par0069	Mr. President, dear friends, I'm here to explain our views on the European Ministry budget. In general, I'll explain our group's views, but I'd like to express a personal opinion. If you had asked me today, which ministers would you most want to be? I think one of the ministers I wouldn't want to be is the Home Secretary and one would be the Minister of the European Union because both ministries have been assigned to deal with impossible projects. The Ministry of Interior is trying to put a people in prison, and our Ministry of the European Union is interested in bringing Turkey into a miserable unit, according to the President. (Applause from the ranks of the BDP) So I think it's also necessary to understand the fits of anger that the Sovereign Donor (E.B.P.) caught from time to time when he was conducting the work, but I think these tantrums are symptoms that give away the symptomatic, or the big problem. The 67th European Union, hosted by the European Parliament on 28 November 2011, is the implementation of the Commission for Karma, so let's briefly remember what happened here. Barry Madlener, a member of the European Parliament from the Party for Racial Freedoms in the Netherlands, asked to give a cartoon to KPK Co-Chair Afif Demirhan.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0037par0072	Ironcracker. First say my last name properly so the rest of them will be true.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0036par0073	Sir?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0037par0074	Say my last name properly, so the rest of what you're saying is true. You said Imirhan, my last name is Demirkıran.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0036par0076	Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0037par0077	Mr. Furry, if you speak my last name correctly, I mean the rest of what you say is true.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0036par0078	All right, Ironcracker. Whatever you call it, it always smells the same.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0037par0079	It's not like that! It's not what you know, it's not what you know.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0038par0080	He's saying it for the record.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0036par0081	Yes, this cartoon belonged to the Penguin artist Bahadir Baruter. Because of this cartoon, Baruter was charged with public humiliation of religious values adopted by some. Mr. Secretary, in response to their persistent attempt to deliver this cartoon to the committee -- let's say in English, he said so -- he said so -- and it passed on to our political history as a token. Now, here's what I want to say. The content of this cartoon was good, and I'm interested in something else completely independent of evil. First, even a fascist can show you the right time twice a day like a broken watch. What we were talking about was a cartoonist being tried for. The racist parliamentarian argued that Turkey did not comply with Europe and should not be taken, but the concrete and absolute truth stood still. A cartoonist found himself in front of the judge because of a cartoon he drew. Now, our Minister responded to these criticisms as follows in further talks, saying: "There is no one in Turkey who is actually tried for their thoughts. No journalist is tried for his work as a journalist, he is not imprisoned, he is not in prison, he is not convicted. I think that's the big problem, that's symptomatic, is that you can really run away from every criticism, hide, tell yourself the opposite of that fact, and think that you can make a place for yourself in Europe or in the world. But, look, how does our judge in the European Court of Human Rights, Shinil Karakas, explain Turkey's situation across the European Union, in the European Court of Human Rights? You know, the bright Karakash has been appointed by the government. I don't think he has any prejudices against Turkey, and it's not his job to look at any files. There is an incredible increase in applications from Turkey to the European Court of Human Rights in 2011. Last year -- that is in 2010 -- 6,000-6. With between 500 applications, the number of applications this year reached 9,000. It seems that despite some regulations, reforms, or expected openings in the judiciary, things are not yet working out in Turkey. The exponentially increasing application means that the rights and freedoms of individuals are not guaranteed enough in civil law. At the beginning of the applications from Turkey, the length of detention and trial period is coming, and the two issues are already related. (Turkish Karakaş:) The state, the freedom of expression and the freedom of the press is the country with the most violations of the state, the expression and the freedom of the press. Turkey has 10 violations against France behind its back, and Turkey has more than 200. Now, our judge at the European Court of Human Rights drew this painting is Shinil Karakaş. That's not what I or any government opposition, a hypocrite, says; that's the real, concrete numbers. Under all these circumstances, Turkey's European Union membership debate is becoming increasingly impossible because Turkey's demands and European central forces have no agreement, no agreement on Turkey's membership, no agreement. With the latest crisis, the European Union is being re-established, redesigned, and a new agreement is under way, while Turkey is having a hard time even following the old terms of the old agreement. When Turkey received the 2004 European Union's negotiating date, you know, Turkey was running the Justice and Development Party at the time, there were huge festivals in Turkey, finally! Here our government has succeeded; our day has come, our moment to join the European Union; and the gates are opened to us. At the time, when I was considering this situation, I asked myself: "Can world capitalism, which is based on its natural and historical limits, overcome the crisis as Schröder, Blair, Bush, or Putin? Can the European Union, facing the challenge of the United States, China and Russia in these crisis conditions, provide a geography free of crisis for 300 million lucky people? Can Turkey maintain its social order today by participating in a wider crisis geography, as Recep Tayyip Erdogan thought? Let's hope we won't be too late when the dream of building prosperity and harmony behind the walls of the European fort shows with all its nudity that it has no meaning but to prevent mankind from facing the inhuman reality. There is only one thing that can be said to Recep Erdogan, who claims that while the world is drifting in the home of capitalism, it will bring those who can ride into the European Union to safety like Noah's Ark, and to try to find tickets on the black market to board the ship: the Flood was real, and Noah's Ark is just a myth. Now, we all see how this legend is being questioned in the face of the entire human reality of the world. While the European Union, the United States, is a clear fact that after the defeat of socialism, all new capitalist practices in Eastern Europe, Russia and China are far from representing the future of mankind, I would like to ask the Minister of the European Union what it would be like to strive for membership in the European Union, not only to unite humanity with the desire to sustain profits, but to divide them, to separate them, to separate them, to bring them into deep, long-term and destructive conflicts. But on the other hand, Turkey chose to move forward, not by this destructive, exploitive, alienating nature of all capitalism, but by the values that the European Union has actually given to human history. For example, a fair trial is one of them. For example, enlightenment is one of them. For example, human rights, feminism, socialism, equality, all of these are the values that Europe adds to humanity. But Turkey, for some reason, saw the values of the capitalist Europe, not just the conservative Europe, and thought that they could be permanent. Now, we're at the landing site of the ship. What's to be done now? The Prime Minister always told us that if they don't let us in, we'll declare the Ankara Criterians and walk with them. It's like a nightmare to think that we're going to be faced with an election, whether it's 40 or 40 lines. Because when we look at the Ankara Criteria, what we see is hundreds, thousands of prisoners and prisoners with no probable cause, 10 percent election dams, the inequality of children and women and injustices, the distribution of inequal incomes, and the longing for empire as a result of all of this. If that's the Ankara Criters, let's not take them at all. But when we turn our eyes to the world and say, "Are we desperate, is there no other way out for humanity?" everywhere, in fact, in the face of the great wave of crisis that will come to Turkey the next day, let us hear the call that all workers, all workers, all workers, all workers everywhere in the world; in Wall Street, in Tahrir Square, in Brussels, in Moscow, or in Ankara. The masses that stand up everywhere demand an equalist, liberal, fair new society, a new human order. Whether Turkey enters the European Union or not, it has two basic issues to resolve: one is the Kurdish issue, one is the Cyprus issue. The European Union or others didn't cause all this trouble for us. We went ourselves, we invaded Cyprus, and now we don't know how to get our troops out of there. In order to deny the rights of the Kurdish people, we have brought troops in battalions, blood-painted Kurdistan, and now we don't know how to account for it ourselves. The people of Cyprus, the Turks living in Cyprus, do not want this practice; let alone Europe, America, Greece. Now, then, without a new discussion about how to solve these problems, neither the European Union nor any other union can be important to us. What matters to us is solving our own problems. The people of Turkey were hopeful when the European Union debate began: Can democratic norms in Europe be imported to Turkey as well? Turns out it can't be imported, so you have to build your own democracy. Can the wealth of Europe be imported? It can't be imported unless you produce it yourself. Within ten years, we faced the bitter truth. Now, if Ankara really wants to gain superiority over Europe, it will do one thing. In terms of human rights, in terms of women's rights, in terms of the rights of the people living in Turkey, to show that it represents a civilization higher than that of Europe. Will the pluralist reach out to the Kurdish people in Ankara to establish a multicultural, multi-identified society? Will Ankara and the Kurds rebuild this Turkey? Will he be able to establish a new constitution that shows that all peoples living in Turkey are equal and free and that none is superior to the other? If he can do that, then the 21st century could actually be a new century in which Turkey has added something to it. Turkey will indeed then be a source of hope for all mankind. I wonder if it'll happen. To answer that question, you must first give up the claim that the European Union is a norm of humanity and not spend money on such budgets. Thank you so much for listening.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0039par0100	Thank you, Mr. Furman. Mr. Emine Mirror, Diyarbakır MP...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0040par0102	Turkey is not an intruder, but you said it wrong.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0041par0103	Mr. President, may I have a word, sir? In 1974, he described Turkish Republic of Turkey's intervention in northern Cyprus as an invasion of Turkish military deployment as a result of the intervention. In order to protect the rights of the Turks living in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus at that time, the Republican government of that time went to end the atrocities and injustices that occurred there, to prevent the killings and murders caused by the Greeks. I'm presenting this to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0042par0106	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Mirror.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0043par0108	Mr. President, Congressmans, I'm here today to share with you the Peace and Democracy Party's views on the budget of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. Before I begin this assessment, a court is currently under way in Diyarbakır. 104 Kurdish politicians and Turkish politicians are on trial under the Turkish law. The reason for their trial is that the state of Turkey thinks differently about the Kurdish issue outside its official ideology, develops different solution proposals; they say that other peoples live in Turkey, not only in Turkey, but also in other peoples, and that they can share in the establishment of the Republic of Turkey, as well as in their own identity, to organize it, and to do its politics. Maybe 104 politicians are on trial there today, but we know history will judge those who judge.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0044par0110	He'll judge you, too.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0043par0111	Friends, the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources is not just about the economy of Turkey; the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources is not just about the free market economy, but about a system based on competition. When I watch the Ministry's presentation to the Commission, when I follow it, I've seen these concepts pass in a lot of places, and it says: running international projects. That's the problem. The main source of problems and problems that we face with energy, the problems we face today, and the problems that we face with natural resources, is right here in the approach. And as long as that approach doesn't change, there's no way to solve the problems we're going to have. For example, in parentheses, he says that since 2002, we are the country with the highest demand increase in electricity and natural gas. This is not a good thing, this is a bad thing. China has a population of 1.5 billion, Turkey has a population of 75 million and an increase in energy demand. We have to sit down and discuss what that means. There are 20 times more populations, China has 20 times more populations than Turkey. This increase is not a good thing, this increase in demand is not a good thing. Look, we all have to understand well how the consumption madness in Turkey is actually related to the free market economy, how we manage the competitive system again. The energy consumption madness has something to do with this system. It's not the needs that determine the economy anymore. In learning about economics, the most basic knowledge was the knowledge, the basic needs, the infinity of needs, but the shortage of natural resources, resources. Today, it is not these basic needs that determine the economy; it is the system of free market economics that determines how the economy works; it is the consumption madness that is encoded in people's brains. It's not enough for a family, a house, a car, a car for every single person that's the population of that family. Isn't that also energy consumption madness? Now, for today's sake, I'm saying through cell phones -- one person doesn't have a cell phone, two don't have, three cell phones. Isn't that energy consumption madness? It's not enough for the car, it's not enough for private planes, it's not enough for the ship. Isn't that energy consumption madness? Isn't this directly related to the free market economy, the competitive system? One house is not enough, two houses are not enough, and three houses are not enough; they buy a house abroad; they have a summer and winter; they do not have enough; they also buy a spring house. Isn't that energy consumption madness, all of it, and isn't that what this craziness is based on, the free market economy? Without discussing them, how do we discuss what energy consumption means? How do we discuss increased demand for energy consumption? Isn't that what the increase in demand is about? Again, another point, and most importantly, I think, is something that the Ministry of Health often emphasizes for people, but it's also something that needs to be highlighted for energy consumption: it's called obesity, not hunger, not to satisfy hunger, it's not to satisfy the need; it's not to consume more than the need; it's to consume the world and, just as a person becomes obese, it's to have a heart condition, and if there's a shortness of breath problem, it's to go towards the point of explosion. It's all because of this growing energy demand, energy consumption madness. Therefore, instead of discussing the ministry's topic only through the free market economy or the competitive system and so on, it is necessary to do its programming and planning by establishing a complete relationship and interest in human health and life, again in nature, in the health and life of the world. It's not about how much the budget is devoted to the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, it's about how well the budget will be assessed in a way that is beneficial to nature and to man, to the health of nature, to the health of man, to the life of nature, to the life of man. It bores us all to repeat what is known here, but we have to repeat it. With the energy consumption of increasing cancer cases, we have to bond with energy production. This is the response from the Ministry of Health on a question asked in parliament last semester, which increased the cancer threefold between 2002 and 2010. I've watched this conversation before I came here, and I've watched it to adapt, the Chernobyl explosion, the consequences of the Chernobyl explosion, and today we're talking about building nuclear power plants in Turkey. I'm not gonna go with numbers, numbers, people that have died, et cetera. When the Chernobyl explosion took place in 1986, it didn't happen in our country, it happened in another country, but we're still experiencing the consequences in Turkey, the radiation in the land of the Black Sea, where the tea was produced, is still far above normal, and so on. Can we discuss this independent of energy production, independent of how to produce energy? Today, the case of the child with Down Syndrome in Turkey has been way over the past years. Isn't the reason why this energy is about consumption madness, isn't it about how we generate energy? Again, when Mesopotamia has been famous for its wealth of agriculture in the past, its land is much more valuable than its world countries, while agriculture is much more efficient today, and soil efficiency is diminishing. Isn't this all exactly what the Ministry is all about? Shouldn't he consider the budget set aside to answer those questions, to solve these problems? Look, the nuclear power plant thing is important. We've made a decision about the damage to cigarettes. We're starting campaigns to quit smoking on human beings, on human beings. Nuclear plants are meant for the world to smoke, and while many countries shut down nuclear power plants, this practice gives up its method of producing energy, its way, its way, its way, its way, and its ministry, unfortunately, says they aim to achieve 20 percent of the production of nuclear energy in the current energy production by 2023. This is an indication of the importance of human health, health, and health, or of how much the ministry budget has been focused on as it prepares its schedule, plan, plan, and plan. Well, how do you approach it? First: Free market approach based on competition must be abandoned, regardless of other areas of the economy. It is imperative that we approach man and nature with a concept of public social state. Because it's just the power here, the opposition here, and we're not living here today, it's our future, it's tomorrow. Today's programs, plans, will determine the future of Turkey, not how our children will live, not how our grandchildren will live, but how the next generation will live far beyond. What we're going to decide here, what we're going to decide with our plans, what we're going to decide with our programs, is our future, not just today. Therefore, there should be no amount of budget that needs to be discussed or voted on; it should be discussed and voted on for what and how to evaluate this budget. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0045par0122	Thank you, Mr. Mirror. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Ali Bull. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes, please.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0046par0126	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my Group on the budget of the Ministry of Economics in 2012. I salute your high council. Ten years ago, someone was going to get inflation and interest down to one-digit figures, that exports would exceed the 100 billion-dollar threshold, that tourism revenues would exceed $20 billion, that Turkish contractors would build the world, and that at least 20 billion dollars a year would take a job abroad, that a party would go to power in the first year, that a party would go to power with 365 MPs, that would increase power by increasing the two-term power by increasing the game, that the IMF would end up dependency, and that the Turkish nation would end up with the rest of the economy, and that it would be possible to say that it would be possible to increase its own economy by taking a prescription. Dear lawmakers, as you know, in 2008, a crisis occurred in the financial markets, which originated in the United States. In the 2008 crisis, there is no flaw in Turkey's power or opposition. It's not a crisis in our kitchen, it's the world's financial crisis, but because of the fact that this crisis has affected the developed countries of the world so severely, because our exports are now up to 132 billion dollars, our exports have declined by 23 percent in 2009, and our growth has declined to this extent. But as soon as we get over these effects, at the end of 2009 and at the end of 2010, we know that Turkey is the fastest growing country since China, growing 9 per cent after China, and in the first quarter of 2011, 12 per cent in the first quarter, 8.8 per cent in the second quarter, and 8.2 in the third quarter, which no one expected, and we know that in total, we have grown to close up three quarters of 2011 with 9.6. And we're also doing growth in a year where once the election was in place, it would have been a complete disaster after the election, because the election economy had been implemented, and in a quarter of the time before the election, 8.8% in the quarter before the election, 8.8 percent in the quarter before the election; and in the three months following the election, Turkey has achieved 8.2 growth. Whether anyone believes it or not, that's the way it is, guys.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0047par0130	Tell him about the import, the import.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0048par0131	Cari's open...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0046par0132	I'll be there. I'll be there in five minutes. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this movement is the nation's confidence movement, my friends. This is the movement of trust in the Turkish nation and the people of Asia Minor. No one believed that Sergeant Mehmet would lift 250 kilograms of ammunition in Çanakkale, but he lifted it and changed the fate of the war.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0048par0135	He's not Sergeant Mehmet. He's the Seyed Corporal.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0046par0136	Today, Anatolian people carry the machine they built, the machine that weighs 250 kilograms, the machine that comes with no cranes, no transportation, no transportation, on their own backs, and it's a drill. This is an Anatolian movement.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0048par0137	You don't know your name right yet, it's Syed Corporal, Seyit Corporal! He's not Sergeant Mehmet.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0046par0138	I think it would be more useful if you analyzed the general policy and strategy of your opposition... instead of picking words against me in opposition lines... why you've been still in opposition for three semesters. [[Applause from the AK PARTY lines, noise from MHP rows]] Dear friends, there's no time left in the current deficit, so that's going to be done at a different time, but one of the four-five-six parameters of our economy is current, but it's important to finance the current deficit. As long as you finance it, it's also a parameter of growth. As long as you finance it, it's going to be good.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0049par0141	That's what Ali Babacan says...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0050par0142	Mr. Ayhan...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0046par0143	You can't finish the opening from today to tomorrow. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0050par0146	Thank you, Mr. Bull. Mr. Süzeyya Sadi Bilgiç, Isparta MP.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0051par0149	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Economics in 2012. I salute your high council. I wish our Ministry of Economics, which allows us to approach the chain of incentives, investment, production, exports and branding in a whole way, well done. Dear lawmakers, after the financial crisis that started in the United States housing market and then spread to real economies, we entered a period in which the risks in the global economy rose again from a period when the global financial crisis began to be discussed and written in the first half of 2011. In the fight against the global financial crisis, there has been a significant vulnerability in economies as a result of the enlargement of money and finance policies imposed by developed countries, with budget deficits and public debt stock rates reaching significant levels, concerns about the transversibility of debt. As a result of these developments, the main agenda of the global economy today presents a major number of problems due to public finances in the European Union and especially in the eurozone economies. In addition, political unrest in countries such as Libya, Egypt, Syria, Tunisia, Bahrain, Yemen, and the Middle East also led to a huge rise in oil prices. This has had a negative impact on both our energy imports and exports for our country. Advanced countries performed extremely poorly in 2011, the role of developing countries in the performance of the world economy increased and developing countries grew by 7.3 per cent in 2010. As a natural result of its further integration with the global economy, Turkey's economy has experienced a recession in many countries during the crisis. However, our economy has shown its success in becoming one of the fastest growing economies in 2010, with a strong banking system, low debt rates, disciplinary budget and increased foreign trade. In addition to growing economic performance, the improvement in economic performance is seen by employment rates, as well as by improvement in industrial production index. As of February 2009, unemployment rose to 16 per cent, due to rapid recovery and production growth in the economy, in 2010, to 11.9, as of August 2011, to 9.2. Turkey has reached the highest level of employment volume in its history. The industrial production index also increased by 9.7% during January-October 2011. In a similar way to our country's economic performance, our foreign trade has gained momentum after the crisis. In 2008, our exports, which set a record for 132 billion dollars, declined by the effects of the global economic crisis in 2009 to up to 102.1 billion dollars, reached $113.9 billion in 2010, above the $111.7 billion export target in the medium-term programme. According to the same period last year in January 2011, exports increased by 20.2 per cent, making it $111, $4 billion. Turkey has risen as a monument to stability in its region while governments have fallen in Europe. All of these economic achievements and the 20.2 per cent increase in exports have been captured despite the crises in our largest export market, the EU and the Middle East and North Africa. Increased value and technology in our exports is crucial for a permanent export increase. Turkey has been among the top three countries in Europe to apply for brand and industrial design in recent years. In 2010, the number of patents and useful model applications went past 11,000 for the first time in our history. With the success of our companies in the field of innovation and the support of relevant institutions in this area, I believe the share of high-tech products in our exports will increase. At this point, input supply strategy strategies are being carried out under the Export Development Strategy Evaluation Board, established by the Ministry of Economy to produce permanent solutions for the current processing deficit, to develop plans and strategies. The aim is to ensure sustainable access to the required entry at the most affordable prices, reduce import dependency to as many internal sources as possible in input supply, and create solutions to increase the competitiveness of the exporter, which will ensure resource efficiency. We also believe that this strategy will enhance our country's ability to adapt to changing world conditions. My esteemed friends, in the coming period, we will continue to improve our country's prosperity by developing economic policies and measures based on production and export-based growth model. I wish the economy ministry's budget to be good for our country, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0052par0161	Ankara MP Nazmi Haluk Özdalga.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0053par0163	I salute our president and his esteemed deputies. I have made a pledge on behalf of my group to discuss the budget of the Ministry of the European Union. I'd like to start by stressing that we consider Turkey's membership in the European Union a priority and a strategic goal. This process of goal and membership contributes to improving our country's social and economic conditions, strengthening our democracy, and on the other hand to the emergence of a more effective Turkey in our region and in the world stage. On the other hand, as you all know, the European Union and especially the Euro-Money Association are having a hard time right now. The direct reason for this crisis is that some euro-money union countries have high public debt and are seriously concerned about the capacity of their debt to pay, which is why they are unable to translate their debt. At the critical summit in Brussels and Friday last Thursday, it has been decided that the countries of the Union will be under strict financial discipline. Although this delayed decision is a step in the right direction, the results will be seen in the longer term, I have just mentioned how much will be sufficient to distribute urgent concerns, and the euro money union is still facing serious risks. If the resources of the European Central Bank are widely used as requested by some environments, there is a possibility of devastating overinflation. Another risk is the possibility of disbanding the euro money union. This will result in other extreme and troubling consequences. Our wish is that the European Union quickly puts this heavy crisis behind them, a healthy financial and economic process. The European Union Project is the largest and largest integration project in history in Europe, where we are part of it. And now that he's been through a lot, of course, it's certain that this big project will continue, with significant results from this crisis. I'd like to point out that the consequences of this crisis are of great interest to us. We're having problems with the European Union accession talks. One is related to Cyprus. That's why the most negotiating topics are blocked. The Cyprus problem has a history that goes back a long way. However, as we have lived since April 2004, the Cyprus issue was created in Brussels and by the European Union. Because it is the European Union's responsibility for later rejection of the peace agreement reached at the end of 30 years of negotiations by the Greek Cypriots that I will become a member of Cyprus, regardless of the outcome of the referendum, at the cost of violating its principles. However, it will not be possible for us to step back from the interests of the Turkish Cypriot community or Turkey for membership in the European Union until now. Even today, some circles within the European Union oppose Turkey's membership, while some European political leaders are hiding behind the Cyprus issue, patting the back of the Greek administration, trying to block Turkey's accession. We are prepared to respect and listen to every opinion, including those opposed to Turkey's membership, within the framework of freedom of opinion. But the attitude of some European politicians who have contributed to a conflict in the Eastern Mediterranean, because it is against Turkey's membership, preventing peace and cooperation between the two peoples from being established is not morally defendable above all. Second, their attitude, their deepest presence, is not in harmony with the basic values of the European Union, which is the establishment of peace and cooperation among European peoples. As I end my words with these thoughts, I would like to thank all those who have worked so hard to prepare the European Ministry of the Union budget, and wish the 2012 budget to the best.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0054par0171	Thank you. Diyarbakır MP Mehmet Galip Ensarioğlu. Here you are, Mr. Ensarioğlu.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0055par0175	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all with the hope that the 2012 budget will be good for our country. Turkey's European Union adventure, which has been going on for over 50 years, is considered Turkey's largest modernisation and modernisation project. Turkey's interest in the European Union, however, is not limited to 50 years. For five centuries he ruled this country from Europe, making Ottoman Istanbul the capital. Later, the founding staff of this republic carried many things to our country, inspired by Europe, inspired by its regimes, inspired by the fashion currents of that day. Almost as many of our existing laws, including our present laws, have been adopted and passed as our laws, as in various countries of Europe. On the other hand, it also took advantage of the fashion currents of that day, such as the nation's state, the unitary structure, and pointed to the level of the Ataturk complex civilizations, showing the importance of Westernization and modernization. Then -- we're talking about a continent where two world wars and countless civil wars, many languages are spoken, many religions, almost all religions, and many interpretations of these sects -- after World War II, the intelligent men of Europe and brave politicians came together and carried out the European Union project. Now, in the past, we've lived and brought up the difficulties we've taken from the troubled times of the European Union, but when Europe has left these woes, after Europe has seen and solved the negative consequences of this, it's unfortunate that those who see themselves as the owners of the modernisation and founding staff of that day, have always tried to prevent change, change, change, this European Union in Turkey, to protect the status quo and the population. Now, of course, in the period of various governments over the course of 50 years, the process of the European Union has been increased from time to time by the speed of government, and, at times, by the structure of some governments, it has been rescinded. In particular, the EC PARTY government is trying to conduct this process as quickly as possible by assigning a ministry and bringing an experienced speaker to the head of this ministry. Of course, we have many problems, and we know that we can solve them with the criteria of the European Union, which are experiencing similar problems. For example, the Copenhagen Criterians and their basic rights and freedoms, the Venice Criters and our closure of political parties with the Amsterdam Convention, discrimination with the Amsterdam Convention, the fight against regional inequality and poverty with the Maastricht Criters, the European Union's basic Rights and the protection of human rights and basic basic freedoms, the issue of strengthening local governments with the conditions of European Local Governments, we can solve very easily, very easily, very easily, very well, but one of the speakers has just used a statement such as, I think, don't spend money on it. Turkey's money for this job is 151m liras as of this year, 151 quadrillion dollars in old money, but the money we're going to get from Europe in seven years is 4 billion euros. So as we don't spend money here, we use very serious resources from Europe to make these improvements, and because of these resources, we're trying to improve Turkey's economy, Turkey's foreign relations, industrial infrastructure and human resources. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0056par0182	Thank you. Balıkesir MP Ahmet Edip Uður.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0057par0185	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. For more than a decade, the Energy Market Organization has organised and supervised electricity, natural gas, oil and LPG markets. The EPDK has granted a total of 25,430 licenses in oil, electricity, natural gas and LPG markets so far. There have been significant developments in 2011 in applying for a license based on wind energy that keeps the energy sector busy. The number of licensed companies in natural gas distribution has reached 62, and the number of gas distribution zones has reached 58. In total, 9 million subscribers were reached. As a result of studies so far, we have 12 counties left without bidding for natural gas distribution. In terms of the number of LPGs used in transport and the number of LPGs, our country is ranked first in Europe. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have been forced to combine biofuels in domestic products for types of gas and motors, such as reducing dependence on energy, increasing diversity, developing agriculture sectors. Turkey consumes 16 million cubic metres of motors. When 16 million cubic metres of biodiesel is added to its engine by 3 per cent mandatory biodiesels, 422,000 tons of biodiesel and 450,000 tonnes of herbal oil are needed. We already have 1 million tons of herbal oil that we consume as basic food, so we have a plant fat shortage. If we add 500,000 tonnes of herbal oil needed for biodiesel, Turkey's plant fat deficit will rise to 1.5 million tonnes. Today, our country produces 2.3 million hectares of oil seed in 66,000 hectares - 1 million tons of sunflowers, 1 million 150,000 tons of dew, 150,000 tons of colza, 60,000 tons of soy, and other fatty plants. In order to reduce external dependency as a result of the blending obligation brought into biodiesel, 3.6 million tonnes of fatty seed is required for our deficit of 1.5 million tonnes of herbal fat. In addition to 616,000 hectares of land, at least 1,750,000 hectares of farmland are required to produce this. In two or three years, it is impossible to produce and produce so much space. When surveyed by biofuel-producing countries, it appears that they don't import raw materials, they produce them, they produce them with domestic products. When we look at the world's biodiesel and bioethanol policies, the United States aims to evaluate the stockpile of corn; 300 million tonnes of corn is produced in the United States, which is divided into 100 million tons of bioethanol. Brazil also aims to evaluate sugar cane stocks; it produces 600 million tons of sugar cane, and it evaluates 300 million tonnes of sugar cane in bioethanol. The European Union's production of colza is 21 million tonnes, and it uses 8 million tonnes of oil in biodiesel. Malaysia also supports biodiesel production to assess the stockpile of palm oil. China is a country that has a net importer in fatty seed plants, and it doesn't support the biodiesel sector because there's a supply shortage in agricultural raw materials supply, it imports oil. On the other hand, the gas's obligation to blend with bioethanol is different from biodiesel, which can be obtained from wheat, barley, corn, and sugar beets. Gas consumption in our country is 2.7 million cubic metres. The amount of bioethanol we need is 80 thousand tons due to the imposition of the graft. So for this to be obtained, you need 225 thousand tons of corn, 261,000 tons of wheat, or 945 thousand tons of sugar beets, but because sugar beets are a plant that requires abundant water, additional plantations are also the best raw material for bioethanol in the country's conditions. If we use wheat or barley, the remaining 30 percent of ethanol is the raw ingredient. As a result, our country's conditions may be forced to use bioethanol, but it is still premature for the mandatory use of biodiesel. Forced biodiesel use can be considered after the production of fatty seeds has reached a certain level. Biofuels today have been debated on the grounds that companies such as FAO, the IMF and the World Bank have reported that nearly 1 billion hungry people have increased food prices in our world, fueling the hunger problem. Using raw herbal oil, based on imports and more expensive than oil, does not reduce the current deficit, it increases the current deficit. In the long run, fatty seeds must be increased by at least three times as much for the necessary use of biodiesel in the engine. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On this occasion, I wish you all the best in our country.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0058par0197	Thank you, Mr. Uður. Mr. Soner Aksoy, Kütahya MP.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0059par0200	Reverend President, members of lawmakers, I stand before you to participate in budget negotiations on energy and, of course, resources. I made a promise on behalf of the group. As I begin with my words, I salute you all. I'd like to talk about energy issues, and I'd like to make some issues about energy policies very brief. As you know, one of the most dynamic sectors in the world is the energy sector. In the energy sector, growth is rapidly driven by the dynamicity of the sector, and in that magnitude, various investments in energy should be made quickly. In particular, countries that want to develop should invest in energy parallel to development. At some point, when we look at it from our point of view, it means producing and consuming too much energy. A lot of energy isn't a bad thing. In fact, one of the most important keys to development is to produce energy, but it can't be the right way to express that it's wrong to produce energy by imitating some mistakes that have been made today. Today, the main flaws in energy production are the continuation of about 84 per cent fossil energy around the world, which is that natural gas, coal and oil-based energy is the largest source of energy production, but energy is a very serious market because energy is a dynamic sector. For example, the market for oil markets and derivatives was a market of 25 billion euros in 2002 and a market for 100,000 people, but today it is a market of 75 billion euros and a field of 250,000 people working. In energy, in order to run energy policies seriously, we have to put the competitive base first, so we have to carry out the free market economy. Not to be afraid of the free market economy is not to be afraid because it means free enterprise. Free enterprise is an environment that reveals people's dynamic structures and real abilities, but a free market doesn't mean it's a completely loose market. In order to achieve the free market economy, you have to provide infrastructure. In the beginning, there are laws necessary in infrastructure. Without power, before 2002, the laws 4646 and 4628 had already been passed -- the laws of the Natural Gas Market and Electric Market -- in accordance with the free market economy -- but after that, after 2002, we made important laws to consider the free market economy in this direction. Within these laws, the Mining Law, the Oil Market Law, the LPG Market Law, the Renewable Energy Act, the Nuclear Energy Act, the Geothermal Energy and Mineral Waters Act, the Energy Efficiency Act and the unfinished Turkish Oil Law, which we believe will be restored in the coming days. These laws are extremely important. These are the main laws in today's energy that motivate, excite, and create today's atmosphere, which motivate developments compared to 2002. I want to draw your attention to the Renewable Energy Act in particular because the world is becoming increasingly difficult to live under the influence of fossil energy. The arrangements must be made, especially by 2017, by providing very important measures for renewable energy. With these feelings, I will put an end to my words, and respect all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0060par0207	Thank you, Mr. Aksoy. Mr. Halil Mazicioğlu of Gaziantep. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0061par0211	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, in the seventh round of the 2012 Financial Budget Bill talks, I am pledging on behalf of the EC PARTY Group over the energy market regulatory budget. I salute you all with love and respect. First of all, I'd like to thank our Finance Minister, our ministers and bureaucrats, the President and members of the Plan and Budget Commission and all of the public bureaucracy that have been involved in preparing the 2012 financial budget. Dear friends, the Energy Market Editing Agency has organised and supervised electricity, natural gas, oil and LPG markets from its establishment for more than a decade now. So far, the oil market has had 13.857 licenses, 1.727 in the electricity market, 241 in the natural gas market and 9.605 in the LPG market. The market activities of companies under these licenses are under the regulation and supervision of the EPDK (EPDK), which is very large from investments to tariffs. The most important issue in the electricity sector for supply security and the future of the system is the implementation of production investments. Eight or nine years ago, it was impossible to say that the private sector would cover all of our country's investments in electricity energy. In order to meet the demand for electricity, the new investment, which reaches 2,000 megawatts per year, must be transferred to the business, while in the past years, unfortunately, 300-400 megawatts. But because of the establishment of political and economic stability and market-oriented approaches in the EC PARTI power, these investments have been rapidly raised to targeted figures. In the last eight years, it has been included in the new system of capacity of nearly 15,000 megawatts from projects that have been licensed by the EPDK. As of October 15th, 93 private sector investments were launched in 2011, with the power of about 2.795 megawatts. Another glad development is that this power is based on renewable energy sources such as hydroelectric, wind, and geothermal. The energy industry's agenda has also been made in 2011, with significant improvements in the application for a license based on wind energy. At the end of this process, the share of wind plants, which have been added to the system in the last three years, is rapidly increasing. Finally, as president and members of the Industrial Commission, we have made the journey to Izmir. I really want to thank the investors in Turkey for their investments. The free consumption limit, which allowed electricity consumers to choose their suppliers in 2011, was decided to be applied as 30,000 kilowatts per hour. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, there has been a significant increase when the actual market was announced in 2011 as a result of the integration method of the demand for relevant legislation and the development of the smaller consumers as a free consumer. In accordance with the relevant provisions of the law and the final goals of the envisioned market structure, the free consumer limit will continue to be lowered until the full market deficit is reached. I would also like to report that in our Gaziantep province, HES, also thanks to the wind and also to our companies who are producing and investing in solar energy.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0062par0220	Thank you, Mr. Mazicioğlu, thank you. Mr. Mustafa Gökhan Gülşen of Kastamon.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0063par0223	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the 2012 budget of the National Bor Research Institute. I hereby salute your high council. Respected lawmakers, our country has 72 per cent of the world's debt reserve. It is inevitable to work to expand the market in order to get more than the market in the boron sector, which has a limited and dynamic market structure, where international competition is intense. Since the day he came to power, the EC PARTY government has established the National Bor Research Institute in 2003, while its most effective services are being offered to the public. The Institute, founded in Turkey and around the world to develop products and technology on borons to ensure widespread use of the pipe, has since conducted or supported 148 projects, and has concluded 104 of them. As part of the results, seven of these products have been produced commercially. In recent years, boron use has seen significant improvements in agricultural production for plant efficiency and quality, and has been found to vary between 5 per cent and 35 per cent efficiency, depending on the type of plant if used in a proper dose of boron. In agricultural production, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism and the Agriculture-Bor Protocol were signed to ensure the use of systematic debt. Given the size of our agricultural production value, even an average increase in efficiency with this project will be seen more clearly than added to the agricultural sector and to the country's economy. In addition, from our major sectors in the wood industry, the use of borons and boron plating have been established within two separate universities. They are still trying to establish a three-part authority centre for the use of the pipe in biotechnology. Respected lawmakers, with these studies, Turkey has become an actor who is expanding the market, not waiting for the market to grow on boron. As a result, our exports in 2010 increased to $647 million. Our export target in 2011 is $850 million. Our share of the market was at a level of less than 30 per cent in 2003, while today it reached 50 per cent. As a result of the policies implemented, the share of boron chemicals, which have a low concentration value in the export of boron, is increasing while the concentration share of concentrated products is low. This rate rose to 92 per cent in 2011. Honorable representatives of our great nation, we know that the volume of the world's trade is around 1.5 billion dollars a year. Given the economic value of the reserve we have, when we use the pipe more widely and bring the market to the level we desire, natural gas for Russia, oil for Arabia, the boron for Turkey will be in the same position. The Bor Institute, founded to find new areas to expand the market, has come a long way. Moreover, this success was achieved despite the efforts of some lobbyists to restrict the boron market to protect the market of alternative products. Because of this expansion, both our production and exports have increased exponentially, some of the pipe that we plan to produce by 2015 has already been connected. It is also a matter to be appreciated, considering that all of this has been done with a very modest budget, compared to the income received. I hereby thank our Prime Minister, who founded this Institute, who closely followed the work of Turkey's energy and mining resources to help our rich boron resources to find the value that our rich boron resources deserve and contribute to the future of our country, thanking our president and executives, our universities, our scientists, our scientists, in your presence, who have been working very hard to use most of Turkey's energy and mining resources, and to all of you, who have contributed with criticism and advice to the development of the boron under the House's roof, and to the extent of this work, and to the point today.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0064par0234	Thank you, Mr. Gülşen. Mr. Afif Demirkıran. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0065par0238	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I have made a commitment to the Turkish Atomic Energy Agency budget, which is the subsidiary of the Ministry of Energy. I salute you all. As we begin my words -- Emine Hanım Hanım is not here -- Mr. Mirror said: "Here, sir, Turkey and China are the two countries that consume the most energy, but when we look at development and development, Turkey and China also provide the most development. So it's not wrong. Development and energy consumption are two parallel, proportional metas that support each other. So if a country is going to compete in the world, if it is going to develop the industry of a country, if a country is going to increase its peace, its prosperity, its energy consumption should also increase accordingly and provide enough production to meet increasing energy. If we're going to make Turkey a country that will export 500 billion dollars on its 2023 target, if we're going to create $2 trillion per million in 2023, if we're going to create $25,000 per fert income in 2023, if we're going to be among the world's top ten advanced economies in 2023, we're going to have to plan electricity production accordingly. So what is it? By 2023, when our republic reaches its hundredth year, there will be 500 billion kilowatts of energy consumption. Well, if this number is too much, when we look at the low manager, when we divide it into the population that day, 5,500-6. 000 kilowatts will be consumed per fert, which is below the average of the current OECD countries. So if we're going to design our future as a really ambitious country, we have to plan electricity production accordingly. So, what are we supposed to be paying attention to when we're planning this? First, of course, local resources and renewable resources. Are local and renewable resources enough to cover 500 billion kilowatts when we get to 2023, hydrolic, wind, sun, coal? I'm afraid not. So, what are we supposed to do? Then it comes from an imported, addicted electricity production. What's all this? Natural gas, oil. These are expensive, too. Look, the other day, our Finance Minister said in the budget presentation, we've given $275 or $276 billion to this day, $279 billion is open, and it's in Turkey. Well, let's face it, our energy import -- unfortunately, 72 percent energy importer is our energy -- 275 billion dollars. If we can make our energy less imported, we can somehow afford the current deficit. That's why I'm getting to nuclear plants -- I'm definitely -- and I'm sure, Turkey is very -- we're very late. Look, we've made the fourth tender, but at this point, with the intergovernmental agreement, 100 percent Russian capital, at Akkuyu, with Allah's permission, the nuclear power plant tender will begin very soon. All the work needed to be done under contract. Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency is currently doing its evaluation.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0066par0242	The public doesn't want it.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0065par0243	If we don't get to the nuclear power plant, we certainly can't reduce our energy, and we certainly can't get safe energy.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0066par0244	It's not safe.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0065par0245	You know, when there's constant and safe energy, you can actually record the improvement you want in the industry. Dear friends, time is very small, very deep. For him, I express here the benefit of Turkey's quick deployment of nuclear power plants, and I wish our budget to be a blessing. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0067par0249	Thank you, Mr. Ironcracker. Mr. Mehmet Erdem. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0068par0253	Mr. President, I've been promised a very valuable law enforcement budget for the Department of Mines and Research. I salute you all. It was founded in 1935 by the Department of Mining Study and Search, MTA. It was founded to illuminate the geological structure of our country, to detect industrial raw materials, metallic minerals and energy raw materials, to produce information about the operation of these mining assets, and to do technological studies. Although the MTA had been active in successful services until the 80s, it was during a long period of pause after 1980. Of course, after 2003, MTA's search, research efforts again gained momentum during the ongoing pause period until the EC PARTY became a power. In particular, our country's efforts to increase various mineral and coal reserves, to find renewable energy sources have been weighted. The EC PARTY government raised the MTA's budget of $18,600,000 in 2003 to $106m in 2011. In order to speed up the MTA drilling work, he has completed three geothermal purchases of fifteen new drilling machines for mining purposes. Modern geophysical methods have been implemented by receiving new equipment for geophysical ethics in the search for covered and buried mines. In accordance with the government's policy of mobilising domestic resources, the MTA continued to increase its search rate in 2003 at 32,000 metres per year to 300,000 meters in 2011, which is about 10 times that. From where to where. As a result of exponentially increasing drilling work, findings have been found that new minefields exist. 300,000 tons of copper, 45 tons of gold, 4.5 million tons of dolomite, 2.4 billion tons of calcite and 40 million tons of ceramic raw materials have been identified. As a result of the ongoing work, our boron reserve, which is 2 billion tons, has been increased to over 3 billion tons, and our reserves have become visible. By the end of 2010, our lignite reserve, known as 8.3 billion tons, has increased by more than 50 percent and reached 13.2 billion tons. The geothermal energy, which is a renewable energy source, is the 7th in the world and the 1st in Europe. Geothermal energy studies, which came to a halt by 2003, were raised by the EC PARTI government, raising annual drilling from 2,000 meters to 25,000 meters today, more than 10,000 stories. That's the difference in AK PARTY. In 2005, the MTA prepared its geothermal inventory and presented it to investors. The Law on Geothermal Resources No. 5686 and Natural Mineral Waters was issued during the AK PARTI period and was a major service for mobilising geothermal resources. The electricity production of geothermal power plants increased from 15 megawatts in 2002 to 114.2 megawatts in 2011, so the increase was 690 percent. In particular, the number of geothermal power plants in my constituency, Aydın, has already reached three. In the next two or three years, the number of JES will also appear to be increasing rapidly. The greenhouse heating in our country with geothermal energy was 500 acres in 2002, while in 2011, 2,400 acres were raised from 30,000 dwellings to 86,000 dwellings in 2002. The Law on Geothermal Resources 5686 earned $558m worth of revenues, which included 56 heating, 14 electric productions. Our province, Aydın's private administration budget, has also received a large share of the income and has contributed greatly to road, water, education and health care. No stopping the MTA workers, continue drilling. I wish you luck with our wishes. I wish our budget would be a blessing, with respect.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0069par0267	Thank you, Your Grace. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Emin Haluk Ayhan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0070par0272	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've been sworn in on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Economics in 2012 and on the final accounts of the Foreign Trade Undersecretary and Export Centre in 2010. I salute your high council. Let's start with the Ministry's name, Ministry of Economics. Madam Secretary, this didn't happen, this didn't happen. Now, if you say, "Why didn't it happen?" Such a freak is nowhere in the world. So there's the Ministry of Development, the units that follow the economy there, the Treasury, the Deputy Prime Minister, there. Now, you can be happy with the incentive that foreign capital was connected to an institution in the '80s and later, for a certain period of time, it would make that institution very happy, and it would make it prestigious in public. I'm just saying that I've worked in Foreign Trade and I've worked as a manager, but I'm really sorry. Now, it's called the Ministry of Economics, you're going somewhere, but when you're asked about macroeconomics, even if you know it, I'm not responsible for that. You have no chance to say that.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0071par0276	I'm not saying that!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0070par0277	You don't say it, but that's how it sounds. I don't know why you became such a fan of this weirdo, but I told this AKP guy -- I told you last time -- don't listen to him too much, they're deceiving him, and he's really your problem here. Now look, there's a new incentive, you're trying to change it again, you're doing something. How many years did they lead Denizli? They came and went, saying that with the new bill, we would rule Denizli with the new incentives. No, there was trouble there. Some of the provinces have indeed suffered. Last week, one of my presidents was in Izmir, and I saw a briefing in the Aegean County Industrial Room about the decline of encouraged investments in Denizli. It's a real problem. Other than that, this AKP really gets under your skin. When you were the Minister of Industry, he turned against you, against the TIM Law, and you were responsible for foreign trade, and you had to defend it. I know you're not really the type of person who would fall for that, and I know you're doing a good job. Something's wrong here. After that, the budget... Now, Mr. Secretary, you're the Ministry of Economics. For all budgets, it's the exact account of the Ministry of Economy, the Department of Export Development and the Foreign Trade Undersecretary. Yeah, how am I supposed to compare that? When you made this change, didn't you think about it when you made this arrangement? All the friends are asking us because we know a little bit about the budget. What kind of comparison would that be? How will it be shown? Is that even possible? No way. Besides, what bill did you bring from the Undersecretary of Foreign Trade or the Council of Ministers, which of the opposition in this parliament said no? We've seen or phoned you since the moment the bill came in. Mr. Secretary, let's make a contribution, and let's add a little bit to that. Is there anything else you'd like? We also asked if there was anything you couldn't put in just in case it was too much. What you really had to do was think about it. It doesn't suit me here. Why? I served at that agency. I'm really sorry about that. The problem with foreign trade is big. He's talking about exports, no one's talking about imports, but there's been almost an external trade deficit as far as exports. He found $100 billion, didn't he, Minister? So, now that we're looking at it, we're doing 12 months of exports, but we're not telling imports, we're not telling foreign trade deficits, we're not telling current transaction deficits. We're talking about this. The whole world's talking about us, and because of the lack of current transactions, we have to talk about what we're doing for him. Last time, the Deputy Prime Minister told me, they've done the math, they're strengthening the columns in this crisis. Is that a thing? How does it strengthen the colon? If you beef it up, that building's crippled, so there's a problem there. There's no point in making this sound like a good thing. By God, Mr. Secretary, please report this to the Council of Ministers. Cari is already swollen, the smell of burning in exchange, the tail of the truck, when you look at it in Syria, the number of Middle Eastern tourists in Hatay has dropped to 1%. These are from the papers. You know what these are? The impact of zero-problem foreign policy on the economy. Now, what are we supposed to do with these? We need to think this through. Mr. Secretary, members of lawmakers, in addition to this, the average world goods production has increased by 2.6 per cent over the past 30 years, and the exports of goods are increasing by 7.3 per cent. Direct foreign capital entry averages 14.8 per cent per year, sales of foreign direct capital companies increase 10.2 per cent, exports of foreign direct capital companies increase by around 9%. Foreign trade and foreign capital inputs are increasing at a higher rate worldwide compared to production growth. The conclusion is that the positive development in exports in Turkey is not only right for the AKP to be associated with it, but also for imports. You'll also connect the world's developments. We -- if there's any time left -- we've given about $500 billion in foreign trade deficits during the AKP era. We were ironed, the Turkish nation was fed by the AKP. How much? $500 billion. How many years? That's when you came all the way from the beginning of 2003, including the recent current account deficit.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0072par0287	Tell me about the banks!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0070par0288	I'll tell you about the banks. Let's go outside, let's discuss it together in front of the press, if you know. Don't say that! Now, the AKP government programme does not provide significant measures for the current deficit, but exports are the most important macroeconomic vehicle for the country's development. Enough vision for the creation of a balanced foreign trade structure and the changing of a growth and export structure dependent on imports has not been included in the party declaration and the government programme, unfortunately. In the declaration, where the cari deficit is largely linked to the excessive increase of imports in oil and derivatives, there are not enough defined proposals to support production in the sectors producing the intermittent goods. In 2002, the 401 million-dollar profit transfer brought $3 billion currency out of our country in 2010. As we all know, the main reason for the current deficit is the foreign trade deficit. The foreign trade deficit has become structural in our country. An important part of import is strategic imports, and exports are unfortunately highly dependent on imports. The rapid growth of 2010 and the first half of 2011 created some macro financial imbalances, particularly the current open and increasing private sector debt. The debting of spending, the financing of the increased current deficit, especially with short-term capital movements, has unfortunately increased vulnerability in the economy. The foreign trade balance has been compromised. In 2009, exports, which were 72.5 per cent, met 61.4 per cent in 2010, and in October 2011, 55.4 per cent of the year's foreign trade deficit rose to 107 billion dollars, compared to the 12 months' total in the past. Yeah, how much was the export? That's more or less our foreign trade deficit. The current account, with 14 billion US dollars in 2009, rose to 47 billion US dollars in 2010, to 77.5 billion US dollars in September 2011, 12 months in September. It is 10 per cent of national income. The rate of financing the current deficit of portfolio entries increased from 1.6 per cent in 2009 to 34.2 per cent in 2010. In September 2011, the rate of entry to finance the annual current deficit is 25 per cent. It has been financed by high current debt and has increased foreign debt, especially short-term debt. The foreign debt stockpile, with $268 billion in 2009, rose to 289 billion in 2010 and to 310 billion in 2011. In 2009, a short-term foreign debt stockpile of $50 billion rose to 78 billion in 2010, 85 billion in the first half of 2011, and 85 billion in September. The finances of the firms have increased their sensitivity to courtship movements. The open position of companies with 73.1 billion dollars in 2009 rose to $90.6 billion in 2010, $19.3.3 billion in the first half of 2011. Cari is no longer open to sustainability. The growing current has made the vulnerability of the open economy visible and clear. It is not a problem as long as the deficit of current transactions can be financed. The vice prime minister's assistants, who say, "It's not a problem as long as the current deficit can still be financed, although they're spinning back from what they're saying, are the events where the power speakers say that the current deficit is good -- but not from solid resources -- are really an example to be listened to. In order to deter short-term capital entry, the Central Bank has reduced its weekly repo interest, the interest corridor has been expanded by reducing the overnight loan interest rate, and mandatory responses have been increased to limit credit growth. Now, despite the loss of value of Turkish lira, as of the end of the third quarter of 2011, recovery in the current deficit seems to have slowed down a little bit more in the third quarter alone. The short-term issue is the translation of external debt and the blocking of portfolio outputs. Over the next year, we have $135 billion in foreign debt to pay, and nearly 73 billion in foreign housing have a portfolio investment stock. In the middle term, we must change our growth structure based on foreign financing and imports. Our savings rate, which was 21 per cent from 90 to 99, was reduced to 16 per cent in 2000-2009, and your target 2012 is 12 per cent. How is this a matter of pride, and how is this an issue to be appreciated? If you turn around and ask the fellow bureaucrats who are sitting there, where this will end, they will say, "Indeed, in the heat of the sea, this will cause us great distress." There's no point in going to other advanced experts, talking to the IMF, making big talks with OECD, G-20, and getting people to do it. These are not unknown things. They're our co-workers, they know this stuff, they'll write you the same note even if you ask them. The low savings problem, which led to a high rate deficit, has not been resolved, has not reduced dependency on energy imports. In nine years, no fundamental structural reform has been made to eliminate these problems. Now, I want to say something. What to do with a little humor; tie it up. Last time I was looking at the newspaper, I saw a businesswoman's statement, explaining what emotional intelligence really increases; it increases business efficiency by 20 percent. If we pick exporters from emotional minds, importers from non-emotional minds, and we take it a little bit further, we'll be able to work this out a little easier. Thank you, I'm paying my respects. Good luck with the budget. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0073par0298	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. Mr. Lütfü Türkkan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0074par0302	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to make an opinion on the European Ministry's budget on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. I salute you all. The European Ministry's 2012 budget bill, including the National Agency, has been submitted to our approval at a total of 151m,171,000 euros. As the National Party of Action Group, however much we voice our views and vote against them, the AKP Group's majority vote will, of course, be approved. But what we're talking about is the budget of the Ministry of the European Union, founded on the dream of EU membership, like a unilateral platonic love. Yes, it's a budget for the European Union in December 2004, where you celebrate it with fireworks like we're a member, then pretend to negotiate, and then you make a lot of compromises for it, but you beat up water in the air for the love of the European Union. This is the budget of a ministry that was founded in 2000, where you closed down the Secretary General of the European Union, and you immediately violated the law a few days before the June 2011 elections. So instead of taking the budget numbers one by one and criticizing them, instead of questioning them, why is this Ministry set up, with this budget, it would be better to ask for answers to questions about what you can't accomplish on the road to membership in the European Union in your nine years of power? Because the current Minister is already the head negotiator in the previous governments. The European Union's Secretary-Generalship has been closed, but all personnel have been transferred to the Ministry of the European Union under a decree of law establishing this Ministry with all kinds of debts, debts and obligations. In its budget presentation speech, the Ministry of the European Union announced that Turkey has paid a full 118 visits to 41 countries to explain its rightful arguments and expectations for membership in the European Union from the day it took office. Then what's missing? Mr. Secretary, couldn't you tell our thesis enough? Is our thesis unacceptable because it's not the Ministry of the European Union? In this talk, we are neither at what we desire nor at what we deserve. The Minister, who says after six years after we start negotiations and Turkey continues to do what is necessary, unfortunately, we are going through a period of mental eclipse in the European Union. Is it the European Union that we've known for 50 years, or is it the Justice and Development Party's Authority, which, in a sense, sees the establishment of negotiations as a guarantee of political legitimacy from the European Union and agrees to all sorts of concessions? In fact, the Turkish-European Union Progress Report, published on October 12th, is the latest indicator of how far we have come in negotiations and Turkey-EU relations in six years and what conditions are imposed on Turkey. Minister of the European Union, Mr. Bagis, also mentioned in his budget presentation speech that the EU had applied a double standard, that it had wronged Turkey, but that the European Union's greatest expectation of Turkey is the draft of a new civil constitution; the rule of law, the move forward of democracy, the human rights, and the consensus on this matter is 100 per cent. I want to remind Mr. Dona that we visited Brussels on 28 November 2011 to attend the 67th meeting of the European-European Union's Karma Parliamentary Commission: All European parliamentarians, including Mr. Afif Demirkıran and French Helene Flautre, have brought up the issue of journalists and MPs in constant prison, especially Miss Flautre. So you don't just have to start by changing the Constitution and the law, you have to change your heads and your wrong practices first. Let me give you a more recent example of Fevziye Genghis. We all watched on TV in horror how he was beaten by police officers at the Smyrna Karabağlar police station. Smyrna's state police kept these police officers on duty until the footage came out, and it was brought to the attention that she was a hostess. So if the case doesn't show up with the records, and even the female host may be exposed to violence? Where's your zero tolerance for torture? Where are your European Union norms? Turkey, on the other hand, was a country that first approved the Council of Europe convention on preventing violence and domestic violence against women and fighting them in parliament on November 29th. Once again, it's important to change the Constitution or laws, not to sign international contracts. The important thing is that the minds who interpret them and apply them are the main task, the main responsibility. What law states that most government officials, his father, 26 people his grandfather, raped a 12-13-year-old child? The decision maker is in the twisted heads of executives who tolerate this decision, not in the law. In the 35 defendants who have raped 4 children in the Ziirt, if experts at Social Services and Child Protective Services report that the psychosocial developments of four girls were negative before the rapes, they already reeked of salt. Besides, one of the defendants in this case was not caught by the police for 19 months until three days before the trial. Our lawmakers, who don't use anything other than their pens and brains, have been locked up on alleged charges, and have been punished for months, for years, without asking the suspects of violence and rape why they have this privilege. Unfortunately, your attitude toward the damage done to the human body and soul is no more than your so-called solutions to the Van earthquake and your determination to determine, prevent, and punish. The National Movement Party considers Turkey-European relations essential to the quality, the ground and the framework and a new recognition. Right now, the way the Justice and Development Party ruling is following is taking us away and playing with our national pride instead of bringing us closer to membership. The result is not important, the process is useful. His thesis is no longer valid. With EU's political and economic future, the role of Turkey must be immediately assessed and molded into a new Turkey-EU vision. That's our top priority with the EU ministry. I hope, and I hope, that the former minister, who's been in the same position for years, and the new ministry with the old staff, will be able to add new positions and do what you can't do in nine years with a larger budget, and you'll be able to make amends by understanding the mistakes you've made. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit03spe0075par0317	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. I'm taking a 40-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0075par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law for 2012 and with the Central Management Act for 2010. The Commission and the Government are here. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group in the seventh round, Mr. Necati Özensoy is in charge. Here you go, Mr. Özensoy. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0076par0008	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the National Movement Party Group regarding the energy ministry budget. I salute you all. The Ministry of Energy's most important mission is to ensure Turkey's energy supply security. In this minvalde, institutions such as BOTAS, TPAO, TKI, TTK serve to meet the need for electricity, including hydrocarbons; EUAS, TEASH, TEDAS, renewable energy. In this sense, of course, it is also necessary to assess the situation in which these institutions are involved. Our job is to show the empty side of the glass. It is also the power's duty to fill in these gaps. BOTAS is now an institution that imports most of Turkey's natural gas needs, but unfortunately, its situation is really in the deadlock; it owes 8.5 billion to buy 7.5 billion. Six billion of them are debts to Azerbaijan, Russia and Iran, which stem from foreign purchases. Again, the western line on supply security, assuming that the contract for the Russian Western Line (Gasprom) will not be renewed, that the contract will not be renewed by 5-6 billion cubic metres, which has already been raised by industry: industrialists who have used discounted natural gas in the past years and this year will now face increases in prices, even with the increase of dollars and gas prices. BOTAS is also troubled by the law because it cannot reduce its contracts to 20 per cent. Again, natural gas from Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan), including 2008, has been raised from $120 to $250, including 2008, and the difference is also caused by its payment of about $1 billion. My humble advice from here is to do the work of Turkmenistan to carry out this 16 billion cubic metres of agreement that was made in 1999, but should have been removed from the pipeline for 30 years. BOTASH also has a company that is founded abroad, called BOTASH International. This institution, which operates the Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan pipeline, has been damaged every year, and unfortunately the General Manager, who is currently in charge, has been appointed irregularly. This irregularity, of course, has been instructed by the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Ministers in this sense, but is tasked with monitoring and supervision of the ministry referred to in Article 40 of the Law on Public Economical Oppositions No. 233 of the Ministry of Law. In legal disputes that may arise, there are reports of the Supreme Court of Control, or Court, concerning the appointment of the Director General and the members of the Governing Body, and that their procedures will be invalid. I think we should consider these, too. Again, for many years, BIL has been paying 18 dollars for oil, while 15-20 cents per barrel, while it still needs to buy the oil barrel for $18, although it has been converted into natural gas, although it has increased costs, Azerbaijan has now asked us to give up this natural gas, which Azerbaijan has given us at $150m per year at 57 cubic miles [7 m] of the BTC side. I'm asking the Minister if he'll give up this claim. And 20 million dollars is also paid for, and it's about this claim. One of the most important institutions is Turkish Oil. In 2023, Mr. General Manager's goal of meeting Turkey's hydrocarbon needs in Turkey's Petroleums was very exciting, but in this case Turkey's oil oils were not introduced to the first tenders, which were produced in 51,500 barrels in 1996, but today, as of 2009, Turkey's oil and its revenues fell in 34 thousand barrels, and there is also a very important warning that the Turkish oil oils need policies from the oil pipeline, as well as that the first tenders were introduced in Iraq. Thus, our only remaining hope for Turkey's Oil is Black Sea oil. And in the Black Sea oils, if that doesn't happen in this sense, I think our hope will still be another spring, and I'm worried. In this sense, when all the speakers came out, they said that Turkey's foreign trade deficit, the current deficit was all about these imports, but there's no effort to make Turkey's Oil a stronger company, unfortunately, as well. They ignore companies that produce less than 100,000 barrels a day in the world. So I think the balance sheets and goals of Turkey's Oil should be big, and we should look at it that way. Dear MPs, again, when it comes to electricity production, of course, that's it in 2002, so that's it. We shouldn't fool ourselves with numbers like that. So this is -- all of the numbers I've given are from official sources, and that's actually from the Ministry of Energy's budget again -- the annual increase in power from 2000 to 2005 to 2005 to 2011, and unfortunately, you're down to 5.5 percent. So even though all projections have increased the demand for electricity in seven percent of the year, and with these increases, if the effects of the crisis in Turkey in 2009 had continued with the same increase in electricity consumption by 2%, we would unfortunately have even experienced electricity shortages in Turkey today. So I don't think we should be comforted before we get our license applications, our licenses, and our constructions are done. Because most of the application for a license is based on wind energy, and on REMs. And look, you can't attach more than 20 percent of the power in the hours when electricity is most used to do so. So what's our score power today? It's about 36,000 megawatts. So you can't connect it to the RES system today over 7,000 megawatts, that's technically how it is. Of course, we also have to charge electricity production cheaply in terms of competition, but in these competitive conditions in Turkey, unfortunately, in this system called PMUM, it's an application called marginal cost... it takes a long time to get into detail, and I'll give you one example of that. This marginal cost has been seriously opened up in imbalance practices in the private sector. Now I've been talking about the incentive of the private sector in electricity production, especially in renewable resources, of course, but being encouraged by bilateral agreements... for five years at the point of fixing it in places around here where there's no telling who or how it's going to work. Look, in this imbalance, ESUS had about 7.5 billion kilowatts of electricity in 2009; 8.5 billion kilowatts -- I'm telling you -- sold electricity. So about 1 billion kilowatts electrified the PMUM. Do you know how much EUAS will receive in return? The debt is $435 million. It's not what he'll take, it's $435 million. So he bought at 22.67 cents, sold at 14 cents, so he transferred profits to the private sector. So I'm thinking that we need to avoid such applications, such as these, and how it works, and how it works. Again, this pricing is on the agenda of our country. WHAT TEDAS is doing, there are eight or nine tax-related figures on it. Here are the tariff components of TEDAS. Look, only 59 percent of what a citizen pays is the price of electricity sold to a citizen. So they put about 67 percent tax and so on. There's a missing number of fugitives in there, too. So in the missing world, there are certain standards, about 7 per cent of them, but Turkey is about 16 per cent. Now, what do we do with the 9 percent? We collect from citizens. Again, regional pricing should be set up, and if there's any need for electricity distribution there, I think the government should do it by subsidizing it again, not pin it on the citizen. Here, at OECD prices -- again the budget, to say from the budget figures of the Council of Ministers -- was 12 cents, while Turkey reached 15.1 cents in 2010. So our prices are high in that sense. But with these applications, if the nuclear power plant is installed just now, and this nuclear plant will start at 25 cents at the first moment, in order to give Turkey this electricity. About 40 billion kilowatts is 25 cents, so we're going to have to buy a state for almost 40 cents and raise power to at least 15 per cent, 20 per cent. So the construction of the nuclear power plant has problems with its deals. Look, last year, I told the poor about the coal deals that were distributed to the poor, but the Minister said that distributions to the poor will continue, as if we were against distribution to the poor. I say, Mr. Secretary, double it. God willing, God forbid we should lose our state, double it, but don't let any of these runts be passed on to anyone while they're being provided. Look, in 2003-2004, TKI was fully funded by its own sources, but in later years, it provided a direct purchase of 3 billion 600 million tons -- look, it's not a direct purchase, it's not a tender. Now, Mr. Secretary said, "It's taken in accordance with Article 22/a and Article 22/b." Articles 22/a and 22/b can't be made in institutions that are subject to public tenders, so it doesn't count as a tender. So it takes a lot of reasons to do so. Sir, other than that, a lot of misdeeds with the Public Contraction Agency have been issued by the Supreme Control Agency, the Court, in this sense. Look, I'll tell you this: the efficiency profitability that TKI has provided from the sale of its own property coal is 46.3 percent in the distribution of coal to these poor people, and the profitability of activity from coal provided by using small rights is 61.1%. The rate of operational profitability from commercial coal, free of tenders and non-negotiable advertising, is only 4.1 per cent. Dear MPs, I'm not saying this, this is the Supreme Control Agency, the identification of members of the Court, and for the past two years, there are proposals from the High Controllers at the point that TİKI is not supposed to take these coals directly with the method of buying them, and that there is a competitive environment, and that some of those who go to the poor are not to be distributed to the rich. And by paying attention to these, I also say that we find these practices wrong and we reject the budget, and I give you all respect.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0077par0028	Thank you, Mr. Özensoy. Mr. Emin Çınar, MP of Kastamon. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0078par0032	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the National Institute of Bor Research, the Institute of Atomic Energy of Turkey, the Director General of Mines and Research and Petroleum Affairs for the financial budget of 2012. I salute your high council. Energy, one of the most important problems of our time, is of great importance to developing countries such as Turkey. The need for energy in our country is growing in proportion to growing populations and developing technology. Unfortunately, our country is among the countries that import energy in the world. Nearly 75 percent of the energy used is covered by imports. If we want to be a growing, developing, and struggling country, we need to be able to stand on our own feet, especially in terms of energy, and get rid of the outside dependency. But has Turkey, in the AKP's power, been able to get rid of external dependency? The government will naturally say yes to this question. According to the government, Turkey has seen tremendous growth in all areas over the past nine years. So, is that the truth? Here are the figures of Turkey's reality: the import of energy, which was $9.1 billion in 2002, exceeds $50 billion today. The current account, which was $626 billion in 2002, is now around 80 billion. In 2002, the diesel, which was $1.2, was close to $4 today. When the AKP came to power, our external debt, which was 129 billion dollars, reached $300 billion today. Now that we've grown up, since we've become rich, we've made all kinds of improvements, I'm afraid there's nothing reflected in our citizen's pocket. The price of electricity used by our citizens since 2007 alone has been increased by 70 per cent. In the same way, more than 100 percent of natural gas has been increased. Are these figures a picture of a Turkey that can stand on its own two feet? The government is not responsible for any of this, and according to the government, every increase is due to global price increases in the world, crises, but any positive development is due to their ability. Mr. President, in 2002, when the AKP came to power, the ruling lawmakers said that energy was related to the declaration of the election: ▪ Past governments have recently implemented policies and energy fields into a process that is difficult, not to get out of Turkey. Incompatible with the foreseeable growth perspectives of our country, the acquisitions or payment agreements, concessions and right-of-management agreements leave Turkey with an increasingly difficult financial burden to be carried out. What has been done so far? So there's oil here, and we found this mine here, and we found natural gas in this area. Unfortunately, our nation was put to sleep by promising words. In the Black Sea, off the coast of Kastamon, my constituency, and Sinop, giant oil exploration platforms were built by hundreds of millions of dollars. This platform left before any results were achieved. The result is zero, we have zero again. Let our farmer worry about the mazot he's going to take on his tractor, and when the election comes, the AKP will have the answer for them. Instead of reducing Turkey's energy dependence on energy, the esteemed lawmakers have raised the problem of outside dependency every year during the AKP period. This government has put our country under billions of dollars in financial burdens by signing agreements with other countries. At this point, according to the OECD energy index, world energy prices are the largest growing country in Turkey. The government and its allies, who have been enriched for nine years, are the mighty Turkish nation that has been oppressed and exploited, suffering. If we want to be the great state, regional or global power, we have to get rid of the outside dependency in the fields of energy, we have to meet our own energy needs. To do that, we need to quickly boost domestic, renewable energy sources and get to safe nuclear energy. Today there are 440 nuclear plants in the world. 23% of these are under the protection of the United States of America. The number of plants in Europe is 151. France provides 78% of electricity production from nuclear power plants. The share of nuclear energy production in the European Union is 60 per cent in Belgium, 35 per cent in Germany, 30 per cent in Spain and Finland, 28.6% in England. So, what's the deal with us? In November 2004, Minister of Energy, Energy and Natural Resources Hilmi Guler announced that the construction of three nuclear reactors of total 5,000 megawatts would begin in 2007 and be launched in 2012. Today, here, we're discussing the 2012 budget, which, unfortunately, is nothing. They will now say: "We have made the tender, the Court has broken its agreement with Russia, and the work of the Mersin Akkuyu Nuclear Plant was given to the Russians by law. The official opinion of the Atomic Energy Foundation is not known. It's unclear what's involved in this arrangement. When it comes to it, neither the great Turkish National Assembly nor the mighty Turkish nation have any knowledge, but it is expressed by all the energy environments that will cost our country dearly. The Russian company, which we agreed on for 12.5 euros per kilowatt hour, will sell us 70 per cent of the electricity at this price, at which price the remaining 30 per cent of it is not certain. The claim is that 70 percent of electricity for the first two units is 12.5 cents, and the remaining 30 per cent is at the price the Russians will set. We optimistically estimate that this will be an average of 20 cents, unless, of course, at the end of the fifteen-year contract period, the price is unpredictable. Once again, a burden is on our citizen's back, and we wish him good luck and good fortune. Unfortunately, the government has failed in the field of energy, and nothing he has said or promised has ever happened. Our country has become a country that is increasingly dependent on energy, and most importantly, there is only one country in which we depend on energy, which is Russia. In a problem between us and the Russians tomorrow, it will be inevitable that Turkey stays in the cold because the example of Ukraine remains alive before our very eyes in the past period. One of the major problems of our country is not being well-addicted to underground resources. Unfortunately, the new Mining Law, issued by the AKP in 2004, began to sell to foreigners. At this point today, the mining area where foreigners have in Turkey covers about 150,000 square miles [150,000 km] of land, which is about 20 per cent of Turkey's area. At the top of the important mines for our country comes the boron mine. More than 70 per cent of the world's boron reserve is in our country, but the AKP is also in the process of preparing to sell this mine, which is in its right to operate, growing and growing Mines. The AKP's government is on the wrong and dark path. Looking back on history, we will see clearly how the privileges granted to foreigners are a problem in the future. Respected MPs, the Bor Research Institute, founded with high hopes, is now in a fiasco. Experts, successful experts with merit have been removed from their positions for purely political reasons, replaced by AKP sympathizers. It's a question of what kind of study to do with it. Dear lawmakers, here's to getting back from all of this as soon as we realize that we can't get anywhere by selling every valuable resource in our country, and we need to work out Turkey's energy problem manually by building stronger energy policies. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish that the 2012 budget would be a blessing to our country and our nation, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0079par0047	Thank you, Mr. Chanar. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Müslim Sarı. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0080par0051	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to make assessments of the economy on the basis of the budget of the Ministry of Economics. I salute you all. There have been some assessments of the economy today, but I think some facts have been overlooked, and I want to underline some facts, specifically. First of all, the economy of Turkey has not grown very high during the AKP administrations, dear friends. If we accept that the goals set in the upcoming Central Future Program are met, the average growth rate of Turkey's economy will be 5 per cent during 2012, 2013, 2014, and that 5 is Turkey's potential growth rate, so when you compare it with the previous series, the Turkish economy has grown by 5 per cent and will only increase 5 per cent during the AKP administration period. For example, we call the 1990s the lost years, and we call it the years of serious political instability, but in the 1990s, Turkey's growth average is four percent. There is only one point more growth during the AKP period. This is very important, I want to make it very clear.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0081par0055	Why don't you start a crisis?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0080par0056	The second fact: Turkey is not separated from the world after the crisis with its growth performance. That's a lie, too. For example, if you accept the first quarter of the pre-crisis, the first quarter of 2008, and you form a index, you see that in the third quarter of 2011, Turkey reaches 110.5, when you apply the same index in developing countries, it goes up to 118.3. So when we evaluate the pre-crisis level and the post-crisis level, the recovery of the Turkish economy is below the average recovery of developing countries. These are official figures, IMF figures and TİK figures. A third fact: this high growth in the fingernail is a growth that can't reduce unemployment, it can't reduce unemployment, it can't reduce employment, it's a growth that doesn't create employment. For example, in 1980-90, the unemployment of the Turkish economy was 8.3 per cent in the 90s, 8.2 per cent in the 2001 crisis, and you predicted that unemployment would be 10.5 per cent in the mid-term programme in 2011. Thus, the unemployment rate of Turkey's economy in these high growth periods is far below its past-term performances. This growth model can't create employment, and it won't create next term. You know why? In 2005-2007, Turkey's economy's growth average was 7.The business created, employment increased 1 million 106. Now, you're putting 4.7 percent average growth on the Moderate Programme, and you're predicting that you're going to create 1,300,000 jobs, which is a dream, which is just to keep unemployment in one room as a psychological limit, so you put that number in your program to keep it at 9.9. Moreover, the inability to increase these unemployment rates is increasingly narrowed down in a pool. What do I mean? What I mean to say is that employment rates are constantly diminishing in Turkey. Look, in the 1980s, our employment rate was 55.7 percent, 44.7 percent where we are today. So less and less people are in the job market, and you can't reduce unemployment with your higher growth. Again, the turnout rate is 57 percent in the 1980s, with 47 percent in your era, 2003-2011. Less and less people join the labour market, and in a pool that's less and less small, you can't reduce unemployment. Mr. Secretary, you're very proud of the numbers on exports, but you never talk about imports. Turkey's economy's competitiveness is declining. How do I know? I know from there: In the post-crisis period, the total share of Turkish exports in the world trade has dropped from 0.92.8 percent to 0.83. So exports are lower in exports and foreign trade, and imports are increasing. In the same period, imports increased from 1.35 per cent to 1.43. So Turkey can now sell much harder goods compared to international markets, compared to other countries of the world, compared to other countries of the world. I'm afraid we've come to this. And another record has reached almost double-digit figures of the current account deficit during the period of your administration. When we look at the latest October figure, year-on-year cumulative, we're talking about a 78 billion-dollar account deficit, and the quality of financing of the current transaction deficit is failing. Every day, we face an economic situation that can finance the cari transaction deficit from loan creative pens or short-term resource entries or net errors from missing pencils, and it has significantly increased the fragility of the Turkish economy. Turkey's economy is at a more fragile point than ever, and more importantly, Turkey may be the only country in the world that has to give up current transactions to grow. In order to grow, you give foreign trade deficits because two thirds of your production are imports of two thirds of your imports. This is not really a growth model created during the AKP era, but it's a growing situation after the 2001 crisis. I want to say that the current deficit of transactions that you have to give per unit growth is growing, so the Turkish economy is facing an increasingly deepening structural problem. You're placing your current transaction deficit on the energy bill, but even when you keep the energy out, the rate of current transactions is increasing. The final number is 4.2 percent, and when you include energy, it goes up to 9.8. The private sector took over as the economy's debt-making dynamic continues, and the foreign debt of the private sector increased more than two stories in your time because you were financing an increasingly corrupt current account deficit with creative pens, and because the public sector is not in debt due to financial discipline. As of June 2011, the foreign debt of the private sector reached 202 billion dollars. In parallel with this, the private sector's foreign currency deficit has increased. That's $120 billion. So the currency obligations of real-estate companies are 120 billion dollars higher than the currency assets. It creates a serious vulnerability. When national money loses its value in foreign currency, it is possible for real-estate companies to go bankrupt. I'm warning everyone and the economic authorities from here on this stand. Another important point is that the gains in inflation have been wasted over the last year. Look, there's been a serious decline in inflation rates since 2002. I appreciate that. At this point, however, Turkey's inflation rates have exceeded the inflation rates of developing countries. The target of 5.5 percent inflation, it seems, will endure two hundred and fifty percent. The average inflation rate for developing countries at the end of 2011 is 7 percent, and we have 10 percent, which means Turkey faces double-digit inflation figures again. It seems the Central Bank must renew its inflation targets. Your medium-term program has been transformed into a program that needs to be revised before the new year begins. As a result, we are facing an economic path where growth rates will grow further in the coming period, unemployment rates will increase, the current accountability deficit will not be improved by the expected rate of national income, and the overall level of prices will rise, which is inflation. We wished that a budget that considered these things would have been made, therefore, a budget that facilitated growth dynamics, given the growth dynamics of the Turkish economy. In the Plan and Budget Commission talks, we also faced a budget that saw that this budget did not have these features because investment spending had fallen due to last year's budgets, which had been severely reduced according to the past year's budgets. So I see that the current budget is not prepared according to the economic facts of Turkey and that we are not faced with a budget that is suitable for the conjunctural process that facilitates growth dynamics by considering the economic realities of Turkey, but despite all of this, I wish this budget to be good. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0082par0070	Thank you, Mr. Yellow. Mr. Shafah Pavey, Istanbul MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0083par0074	Mr. President, valued lawmakers are built on the common dreams of a powerful future society. Like the citizens of modern countries, we had a dream of freedom and prosperity. It was a social democracy project, both in Europe and Turkey, as individuals who looked at the world in peace, cared for one another as a producer's profession, and did not hold a grudge against the other. When the process with the EU was complete, this dream would leave its place higher. But the government lost the European Union compass. Because he wasn't aiming to transform over human values, he was aiming at trade over money. Freedom and legal speeches are all fake reforms. I present the Hrant Dink hearings as an example of shame. Political values lead to high citizenship. Look at the migratory directions. It will show you directly where man flows for the quality of life. Look at the fact that the citizens of the poorly-run countries have to march with their lives to free countries that they think are well-run. The truth is always stronger than the eunuch. The government, using EU values to reduce military custody, refused to comply with EU rules so that its sultanship could continue after fulfilling its intentions. Turns out his intention was not to build a free society, but to build a society that had changed its master. The government cannot meet with the EU in human values, but in North Africa, when the Muslim Brothers bring them to power, they have no problem being part of Gaddafi's unlawful lynching. (HPP) This is how you treat an EU meeting, not through the human axis, but through ideological gain, because investment in religion, not man and nature, brings votes. As the Western hostility the government pumped yesterday, the spring friendship today is just as dire, the oasis has only changed direction. You should keep in mind that Europe, which you took the opportunity to humiliate, is 16 times ours -- 12 trillion euros -- is one of the world's largest economies, and that our economy that you're so proud of is not the future without Europe. The Europe you despise is the science and invention center of the world. You must remember that all the tools and drugs used to restore the Prime Minister's health were won by the inventions of this economy. (CHP cheers) Great technologies listening to all of us are from the same source. We live in a country where ethnic origin, sectarian competition and student silence turn it into a powder keg. It's a country that's been struggling with the same problems for half a century. Turkey is the 92nd among the 187 countries in the World Human Development Report of the United Nations Development Programme. The school period is four years, and half the population has no social security, and 60 percent of the employees are not appointed unprofessional or professional. Apparently, concrete passion and bank performance aren't enough for a person to develop. (HPP) The government wants to join the EU as we are, so they will not participate at all. Making unrequited laws in society is not the Renaissance, it's the turning of real reform laws in society into social values. If your law is not perceived by society, you don't want to enforce it. When you declare that we have taken vice from the West, you reinforce the paranoia of our traditions that will be corrupted by the West. Thus, the lovely interviews that you describe the beauty of the EU are supposed to remain. As you can see, there's a parallel policy going in opposite directions that destroys each other. If the state is beating Fevziye Genghis. How will we fight against the murder of Gülworld in the hospital room of Irfan Ceremony? (HPP) As the first signator of the violence contract against the woman boasted of the country, the same day our nickname was N. C. His decision is approved by the Supreme Court, and there is another one in the archive of inhuman values that has not been implemented. Turkey can open the process of EU by implementing its criteria for its accession, such as public purchases, the policy of competition, the safety of the body, the social policy and the employment and the environment. My wish for the budget is that I strongly remind you of the transformation of values. You will not cut the student's hair, you will not arrest his ass, you will tolerate the demonstration for free education, right to water, right to shelter or right of nature. Your citizens will not die in the mines and earthquakes, nor will they drown in the double roads when it rains. The number of victims of the income distribution on the cliff will not be one fifth of the population living on the edge of poverty. Your gay citizens will not be pushed to the lowest level of society. You're not going to control the university by the government, you're not going to be a prisoner of science politics. (Applause from the ranks of CHP) You will not accuse your disapproving citizens of Zarathism, Aflammity, infidelism, and you will not make the Diyaneti a privileged institution of the state.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0084par0082	Bravo!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0083par0083	Our law will not be remembered for application inflation in the European Court of Human Rights. Turkey will not have freedom of opinion. It will not be a country reached. It's the only way to make a brand if we're interested in being brands. The most important part of democracy is the right to ask questions, isn't it? So, in prison, I'm asking, are we living in a democracy or an illusion of democracy? I'd be amazed to repeat the solution to long-term imprisonments that have been thought of by my AKP colleagues, the solution of temporary imprisonment that has never been seen in the world. Is that even possible? There's nothing in the way of competition, but obviously we don't open up the competition so we don't deprive the state of their privileges of what we've given them. Every earthquake, the buildings are on the ground, under people, but the Public Contraction Act doesn't open. Because the government wants to move on with its contractor. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Turkey has yet to catch the Copenhagen Criters for socialist countries. We're on the verge of a complete blockage. Turkey, which does not reform the scientific research system in education, in taxing this obstruction, is blocking its own development. The issue of Turkish ports blocking eight chapters in talks with the EU is in the refrigerator. Although the European Union is politically committed, it does not keep its promise of economic aid to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. We don't open ports to the Greeks when we're legally supposed to. There's a conflict of law enforcement that doesn't apply to an unresolved political commitment. But we're at an extremely affordable time to negotiate. Cyprus is the key to opening our blockage. We can model Taiwan. Taiwan ignored diplomatic loneliness and performed a miracle. Today he trades with the whole world. Taiwan Island has secured the future of 70 million people, and why are we blocking the future of 293,000 Turkish Cypriots and 74 million citizens? As long as it's blocked, we must sincerely join the positive agenda to bring life back to life. Negotiations are a dynamic process, and once dynamics are lost, it takes a lot of energy and time to regain them. What could be more valuable in human life than time? Imagine that the Ankara Treaty, signed half a century ago, is still protecting the rights of our citizens in Europe. So if your intention is to ensure the welfare of our citizen, it is possible to achieve it under any circumstances. I invite the government to act with the mind that cares more about the future of their young than with the confidence of the bully when these conditions are in our favor. According to Penguin magazine, our prankster EU Minister's Leonardo Da Vinci joke destroyed half a smile on the Mona Lisa. I invite the government to return that smile. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0085par0094	Thank you, Mr. Pavey. Alderman Durdu Özbolat... Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0086par0098	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party over the budget of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources in 2012. I salute the High Council with love and respect. Energy is the most fundamental problem in our country and the world. Our country has been unable to turn its advantages to its own advantage as a geopolitical situation. Turkey is increasingly dependent on the outside in terms of both electricity and oil sources. See, natural gas and electricity were raised after a long break over the past few months due to the price equivalence mechanism. In natural gas, 15 percent of the increase in electricity, around 20 percent of the increase in electricity, has affected industry the most. Our industry has suffered a great deal by being affected by 20 percent of the increase. In order to privatise the government's distribution companies, the current tariffs of the EDASH were extended with various theories, and then passed on to some as favours and beatings. During the five-year tariff period, Kayseri and his Neighborhood approved pens to spend millions on RD and infrastructure investments, even though there was no change in their timetable for the missing fugitive target. Despite such high investments, after five years, the missing fugitive ratio remains the same target. You look at the distribution schedules and you look at them at the time when they're worth millions of dollars per thousand, and they're up two or three points. That's the real reason for the power increase, and that's why. Because of these films, electricity prices are constantly rising because of 50 types of funds and shares. In fact, the missing fugitive needs to be divided into two "missing" and "leaving." The loss is obvious, and the ratio is 3-5 percent, but these two concepts are associated with confusion. The fugitive is something else. If you allow electricity to be stolen, if you define high RD and infrastructure costs, after five years, no one should be using a kilowatt hour as a fugitive. In the companies that are to be taken over here, the price of the tender has been set up according to this. Look at the areas that have been transferred, the unrefundables are already in the company's vault. The entire price of this pen is paid by the government, the private sector comes and collects it first. During this year's tariffs, some companies are getting rich. There's no way they're going to make billions of dollars with a profit margin that's already 2.33. The ministry is consciously trying to make arrangements to clean up the irregular practices of those companies. From here to all the energy bureaucrats, don't make a mistake. Do not confirm the misprocession of the areas these men have taken. These expenses are not the cost of the government, but directly from the pockets of our people. You'll have to pay for today's mistakes tomorrow. A application received by the consumer court came on the news recently published by the press. They wrote that electricity bills correspond to 13 bills a year due to missing fugitives and a lot of funds and shares. It's true to the end. Because they printed each portion of the company's tariffs to sell the EDAS. Over the naked price of energy, five to six percent of the funds are riding, and between 10 per cent and 15 per cent are the missing fugitives. There's nothing to be done about it. Our precious government has changed Law 4628 about this. At the time, no one could sense this evil intent. Now, when we start implementing it, everybody yells. The government must immediately correct the conditions for this absurd tariff. Bring the amendment, and we'll fix it together. Electric bills, at this rate, are on the conscience of distribution companies. We still have trouble understanding it, but unfortunately our electric bills, the TRT share, which is indispensable, must end now. Why are we financing the TRT with funds and shares in electricity bills when the private sector is making a lot of money? I still don't get it. If it's hurting, let's turn it off or privatize it. We fund our electricity bills every month, and they're hurting again, and TRT broadcasts are blowing the government's horn. At the very least, a study must be carried out on the removal of the TRT price from the dwellings immediately. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, it's our government and the Ministry of Energy's primary duty to offer us opportunities for cheap and quality energy for each of our people, but unfortunately, given all international statistics, our country doesn't lose last places to anyone. This shouldn't be our destiny. We see how energy is used in the world, how it's shaped. Although Turkey is in the middle of thousands of miles of pipelines, it is the most expensive country to use both oil and natural gas, and we need to change that. Last June 1986, the Pipeline Agreement between Gazprom and BOTAS was declared a lot lot of tenders for the transfer of it to the private sector, but the tender was cancelled because Gazprom didn't approve anyone to participate in the tender. The Western Line Agreement with Gazprom was later announced by our Minister in September that it would not be renewed by 31/12/2011. The newspapers made a lot of unnecessary comments about the sheets and sheets. Of course, since we weren't informed, we had to monitor this significant development from the press. So, what did Gazprom do? He said, "We are dealing with BOTASH, not Mr. Secretary." Mr. Secretary, we're taking on the world's gas to keep things from getting worse, so their relationship with Gazprom is not tensed. The EPDK recently appeared in the ad. Gazprom has accepted the gas import license application of companies who want to deal with gas from the west line, but none of the 26 companies have been able to fulfill the Gas Supply Agreement with Gazprom. The applications were held up by regulations to bring in the gas contract, which was missing in ten workdays, and I believe it ended last Friday. There's probably no one dealing with Gazprom. Gazprom is already unlikely to make a deal with a private company. Gazprom found a dig like us, so why turn it over to the private sector? There's a letter from the Turkish bank that vouched for the gas bills on this side. Why hand it over to private companies when there's a treasure deposit? Why would he gas it? Why is a strategic line, such as the Western Line, placed on the table, if the right to bring gas to the private sector? Why should Turkish companies be exposed to these spoiled attitudes, such as Gazprom, which have rocked the world, led by Putin. Look, dear friends, the Western line is the capital of Istanbul and Thrace, the industrial capital; 35 percent of our country lives in this region. If this line doesn't work, Gazprom knows that life stops. Our government can't handle the negotiations badly and then run away from the table and then solve it with vague messages. Just yesterday, we presented the huge nuclear power plant project to Russia, who was playing these games to us on a platter, and now we're being threatened. Come on, I'll stop the nuclear. Say it. You can't, because Gazprom doesn't accept the ruling you've agreed to in the gas contract now. To sell the gas at high prices, our companies, if necessary, slap and send it away. The General Manager of BOTAŞ is separate, and Gazprom will catch up with us if our ministry takes a separate stance. Now, tomorrow, you sign the lamb's lamb deal at the price the Russians want, or you pay for the gas you don't buy. We've been digging for nine years for the Salt Lake storage facility. Now, you have a contract with a Chinese firm, which I hope will be done in seven or eight years. Gazprom will have such a strong hand if you take so long to build a warehouse. The energy ministries of Azerbaijan, Russia, Austria, France are starting a company; they want to come and continue their investments in their own country, and so do we. These countries are leaving, coming to our country and investing billions of dollars, taking more out of government support. Doesn't that make you wonder? When are we going to get to this level? Dear friends, we are closely monitoring the changes in the world. The world is doing thousands of studies to reduce rising energy prices and greenhouse gas emissions like us, and we're bragging about our growing demand for electricity. We don't have any energy policies on the ground. Our Minister can't raise his head. Next thing you know, we're sending a research boat to Cyprus, putting ourselves in Shell's loving hands when it's a laughing stock. A tiny, economically bankrupt South Cyprus spends millions of dollars in four large...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0087par0112	Thank you. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0086par0113	Well, I haven't finished my words, but I give you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0087par0115	Adana MP, Mr. Umit Özgükmi. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0088par0119	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the Energy Market Editing Board and the Electrical Administration budget. I hereby salute you with love and respect. When Roman Senator Cato spoke in every Senate in Rome -- no matter what the topic of that day is, health, education, war -- he first began to talk: I don't know if he should fall into the Kartaca. I saw in today's talks, in budget talks, in the Ministry of Finance, in the Ministry of Economics, in Turkey's biggest problem about the cari deficit, both our ministers, and our deputies -- I don't know now because they haven't spoken, and I don't know where the economy is going to go. Our friend speaking on behalf of the AKP, our MP friend, who has already done the Export General Directorate, can say: "There is no problem during the time of open financing. This is the logic that made Turkey this way, that made the current deficit, that sold the land because of the current deficit. That's not where you are today, I answer very little of my time and very long of another day to Mr. Minister and to my deputies, but I want to say that there's no problem in the current open during the time that it's been spent. It means that there's no problem in the time that a company is constantly losing money from banks or loan sharks. There's nothing wrong with it. It's nothing but saying that it can't be sustained, it can't be sustained, it can't be sustained, it can't be traced to the wall after a while. (Applause from CHP rows) The reason for the cari deficit -- I said more in my speech the other day -- is the lack of foreign trade deficit and the lack of competitiveness in Turkey in recent years. Look, every year in the world, there's a competitiveness lineup between countries. Finally, in the 58-nation study, with the 2010 figures, Turkey ranked 58th, 58th in competitiveness. Here, Western countries, industrial developed countries are ranked first in rank, but China, which concerns us, is the 18th place of our competitors, Korea 23rd, Czech Republic 29th, India 31st. In the last five years, Turkey has fallen to the 39th ranking in the competitiveness ranking. Explain the budgets here until this evening, but because of AKP's wrong economic practices, it has come to the 36th row in the last five years. There are many reasons for this, there are burdens on employment; there are wrong money, courtship policies in recent years, but as far as we're concerned, there's an increase in the price of energy input in the industry today. Today we come to the top of the most expensive energy-using countries in the world, both in natural gas and in electricity. In oil products alone, in fuel, the mazotta refinery uses this diesel at 2.5 times the price of output. In the same way, it uses the refinery at three times the price of output. On top of that, indirect taxes have an effect on how expensive it is. When you read the Finance Ministry's budget, you can see that the tax system in Turkey is unhealthy as well, because 67 per cent of the taxes gathered in Turkey are now being collected from the indirect taxes on natural gas, fuel, electricity, and our competitiveness is falling further back. Today, at electricity prices, the average was 6 cents in 1995, and today, the average is more than 10 cents in different stages. 6.6 cents in the United States, 5.9 in Korea from our competitors, and 2.5 cents in China, our main rival. Of course, it's not just this cruelty to the industrialist, it's this indirect tax on the consumer. On the bill, on the electricity bill, it's said today, there's a cost of energy missing on the basic base price of electricity, there's a price of distribution, there's a meter reading, there's a price of staff sales, there's communication and there's TRT shares. Now, let me mention two of these, time is too short. One of them is a missing fugitive. Once, the missing person and the fugitive have to leave. It'll be missing from the energy distribution system all over the world. But why is the price of the fugitive reflected in consumers or industry? When there's a burglary in your neighborhood, do you add the cost of that theft to the environmental cleaning tax? Go get the thieves. (Applause from CHP rows) I know that the missing fugitive is very high, especially in sectors in which some sectors close to the congregation are busy -- I've been head of the industrial room before. But that theft, the missing fugitive, why are you putting the price on the consumer? You've privatized energy. One of the main goals of privatisation was to prevent the missing fugitive. Go get him. Now, the other day, he applied to the consumer arbitration committee, a citizen at Zonguldak, who said: "That's not fair. You can't catch thieves, you're putting them on us. The consumer protection arbitration committee is a legal institution, established within the provinces or within the subsidiaries. The panel of referees in Zonguldak decided that it was wrong and that it should be returned, and they returned it. But the EPDK is still saying no, you'll pay for it. If the state returns it in Zonguldak, it must return it all over Turkey. The government is authoritarian, thank you. But if the state's authority is based on law, then the state's authority has a validity. But if the government is using authority without law, just because it's armed, because it has power, it's called fascism. (Applause from CHP rows) All over Turkey, the decision in Zonguldak must be taken back. They've got TRT shares. I'm not watching TRT, he's a supporter now, but there's a TRT share, and it's not being removed even though it's always said to be removed. 8,000 people are currently working at the TRT. Four, five TVs. In the same way, about 300 people work on private televisions. Look, I'm reading you an article, and in November 2002 -- when the Prime Minister reads the Emergency Action Plan, he says: "All praise be to God, we have stood in all of our promises. The TRT share will be removed within three months for the sale of electricity prices. It has passed three months, it has passed thirteen months, it has passed five hundred months, it has not been removed until now. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's no need to talk about the Department of Electrical Affairs, it's already been lifted overnight with a decree under the law. Seventy-six years of organization have been shut down in one hour of the night, as if seventy-six years of organization had been closed, as if they had stayed for another two months, if they had come to the House and argued in the House, if their motives had been found, as if a war had been waged. Mr. Secretary, if he's going to take the stand, I'd like to ask him to explain.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0089par0131	They'll be open, they'll explain.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0088par0132	What is this? You're smuggling stuff from a fire?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0090par0133	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0088par0134	Is there a new staffing under the fact that the Department of Electrical Affairs has been lifted overnight in accordance with the law? My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0091par0137	Edirne MP Kemal Millendereli. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is six minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0092par0140	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge to present the views of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the budget of the National Bor Research Institute and the Turkish Atomic Energy Institutions in 2012. I salute the High Council. Dear MPs, I'd like to start by quoting Mr. Simsek, Minister of Finance's 2012 budget presentation speech. Mr. Secretary, the most important problem of our economy is that to reduce the current deficit, our country needs to reduce its dependence on energy, concentrate on the production of high value of goods and services, they said. It is impossible to disagree with these underlined issues, but even though the government and the ministers speak the right words, we do not see the same excitement and determination to make it happen. Congressmans, the world's crude market is $1.5 billion, while the market for boron derivatives is a huge market over $100 billion. Our country's 2010 debt concentration and chemical sales are $647 million. 97 percent of this comes from exports. So we only use and operate 3 per cent of our boron mine in Turkey. However, if we can produce an extreme product, we can increase our market share by processing a much larger amount in the country. So, is BOREN today able to function in line with its purpose, which is designed to aim for extreme product development, to ensure the production of energy-enriched goods and services with good intentions? Members of parliament, the budget reserved for BOREN is only 9.5 million TL. With this budget, is it possible to develop technology products for a $100 billion market? With this budget, Turkey continues to export refined boron products and boron chemicals. BOREN can't increase extreme product diversity. It is possible to continue this success with boron products, which will allow us to produce hydrogen energy in the first place, as our dependence on the outside is diminishing day-to-day as a result of RD investments in the defence industry. To do that, we need to power boren with a higher budget. That's a possibility, Mr. Lawmakers. In 2010, the National Bureau of Mines transferred 316 million liras from its annual profits to the treasury. From this high profit of the Mine, an additional resource could be created for BOREN. Dear lawmakers, the most important thing to focus on about TAEK is the matter of the nuclear power plant, which will increase our country's dependency on the outside. Mr. Secretary: In order to attract the current deficit to reasonable measurements, energy has to be reduced to external dependency. In 2000, 67% of the energy we consume is imported, while in 2010, we see that it goes up to 72.4%. Congressmans, Russia is the country where we are most dependent on natural gas, oil, coal. Now, once the nuclear power plant tender is given to the Russians, with new industries based on natural gas and imported coals coming online, our country's energy dependence on energy will rise to over 80 percent, and our dependence on Russian energy sources will rise from 60 percent to 70 percent. The addiction to a single country in energy, not only in our economy, but also in our foreign policy, will put us in a difficult position. Russia and Iran, which are 80 per cent dependent on natural gas, see the missile shield as a threat, are on the side of Syria in the current tensions with Syria. Even these two issues alone are enough to threaten our energy supply security. As a result of this policy by the AKP government in Syria today, which has made extraordinary efforts to make Assad's power go away, the Turkish economy could take a major blow due to conscious failures by Russia and Iran, possible obstructions in the shipment of natural gas and coal; industry without energy, our people could remain in the dark and cold. What does the government trust, and how does it ignore such a situation? Members of parliament, in our economy and in our foreign policy, we are obliged to produce specific policies and supports for clean, green, renewable energy, new burn technologies, energy efficiency, and RD. It is not possible for us to vote positively for the budget without considering these policies. I salute the High Council again.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0093par0153	Thank you, Mr. Millerdere. Mr. Osman Aydın. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0094par0157	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express the opinion of the Republican People's Party on the budgets of the General Directorate for Mine Review and Petroleum Affairs. On our ministry's website, we have made it our mission to reduce external dependence and contribute to the country's welfare by considering energy and mineral resources in a productive, efficient, safe, timely, and environmental way. But when we look at the outcome of the nine-year AKP-era activities, we see that these dreams are not real, they are just a promise. The point is that the share of our mining business increased from 13 percent in 2000 to 18 percent in 2010. In 2000, energy dependency increased from 67 per cent to 72.4 per cent in 2010. The most important problem of our economy is the foreign trade deficit, which is expressed by our government and all the concerned ministers. The solution to this problem is meant to reduce external dependency in mining and energy. As proved by the above figures, significant increases in both mining and energy imports have been recorded for nine years. Imports will continue to increase in the coming years, as the government's programme today indicates. The nuclear energy production facility, which has been decided to be built on the basis of providing energy diversity and reducing imports, from building to running, from fuel supply to waste management, will increase our dependence on the only country in energy imports, and will increase our foreign trade deficit. In particular, it is imperative that our national resources be activated, searched, found, and operated by reducing the external trade deficit, increasing employment and resolving unemployment. It is possible that the ship, which cannot do more than 1,200 metres of seismic research to investigate the oil and gas deposits alleged to have existed below 2,000 metres on the sea floor of our three-sided country, was probably a need for domestic politics, but the foreign countries who knew the situation must have met with a smile. Our country is ranked 10th in terms of the world's diversity of minerals. Unfortunately, there is about 1.4 per cent of the GDP of mining activity. When we look at some countries around the world, there are 6.5% in South Africa; 5% in the United States; 4% in Germany; 3.7% in Canada; 6.5% in Australia; 22% in Russia; 8.5% in Chile. It is seen how important it is to increase its share in the illegal national product, because mining activities, labour that create employment and added value is a sector that prevents migration, usually because it is done in rural areas that can be controlled, and because there is a faster development of areas in which it is built. The mining industry is a risky business. The main reason for this risk is that the economic value of the presence to be found in the search results at high costs is unknown. So far, intensive search and drilling by MTA and the private sector has helped us determine the existence of minerals and energy sources up to 300 metres [300 m] in our country. The MTA General Directorate's main task is to study the geological structure of our country, to investigate and find and bring the resources of mineral and energy based on this geological structure to the economy. Since the establishment of the MTA General Directorate in 1935, it has contributed greatly to this purpose, but it is not enough. In recent years, especially 1,500 metres and above drilling have focused on geothermal energy fields, and successes have been achieved, but deep drilling in the search of minerals and energy sources has not been considered important enough. In recent years, however, the rise in mine prices has made lower tenor ore more economical. This results in how important it is to know and activate the mineral reserves. The MTA must be given sufficient budgets, adequate equipment and equipment to increase the GDP of mining and to detect the resources of mines and energy that are 1,500 metres and deeper in our country. Every step is too risky, and the investment return process is long, and all investments in the search and production process should be encouraged. Mining investment doesn't have a choice, the mine has to be produced where it's located. Therefore, sectoral incentives should be applied, not regional ones. In the Mining Law, a fine must be imposed rather than as much as possible in order to prevent mineral rights owners from acting against the law. In terms of mining activities, consciousness based on facts should be created in society. Due to the lack of budgets for mining Research and Research General Directorate and Petroleum General Affairs, we believe it will have no effect on closing the foreign trade deficit, nor will mining activities increase its share of non-national property. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish the budget to be good for our country, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0095par0171	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. On behalf of the individuals, in favor of Karaman MP Lütfi Elvan. Here you are, Mr. Elvan.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0096par0175	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. It is not possible for us to evaluate the developments in Turkey independent of the developments in the world. I think that while we're doing assessments for Turkey here, we should certainly consider the improvements in the world. When we look at the change in the world in this framework, we see that five fundamental issues stand out. First, we see that the wealth of developed countries and their competitiveness gradually begin to fade away. Second, we see the balance of power shifting from West to East. Third, we see that the importance of soft power is increasing day by day. Fourth, we see a growing demand for democratisation in the backward and developing countries. Finally, we see the world's biggest crisis in the last 80 years. In such a situation, I think Turkey has turned these developments into opportunities in the process of changing the world and transforming in such an environment. Of course, you can also say that like developing China, there are countries like India that play the lead role. But I also think it's perfectly natural and normal for us to refer to Turkey in this group. Another feature: Turkey has a very high growth performance, but the most important thing that separates Turkey from developing countries, such as China and India, is that it has made significant progress in the field of social security in the direction of individual rights and freedoms towards democratisation. In other developing countries, such as China and India, we see that social justice in particular, social state understanding, is not important progress in terms of the facility and democratisation. In short, Turkey's economic development has been riveted by the establishment of social state understanding, steps in democratisation and its effectiveness in foreign policy. Of course, Turkey's development has played a crucial role in the European Union negotiating process and structural reforms carried out in Turkey. It is also possible to say: Yes, it is true that today the EU negotiating process has slowed down, but it is very wrong to connect it to Turkey. Turkey has performed extremely successfully in the EU negotiating process and has made significant progress in harmonisation with the acquish. It is impossible to compare Turkey's progress today to the opening and closing chapters. So, what's the problem? The problem is with the European Union. When we look at the reasons for this, especially after the negotiations, we see that governments in some European Union countries, France, Germany, have changed. Second, again, we see very serious economic and political difficulties within the EU. Third, we see, again, that nationalism flows through the European Union. Fourth, again, we see that the newly joined European Union members join the European Union before they are fully ready for membership, and finally, we see Turkey getting stronger. In fact, Turkey's strengthening has caused the European Union to slow down the negotiations process. If Turkey hadn't been so strong today, the European Union could have handled the negotiation process faster. Think of a European Parliament with 100 deputies from Turkey. Think of a process in which European Union policies are directed by Turkey. Of course, these will disturb countries like France, such as Germany. But let's not forget that the very values of the European Union are still being maintained. Despite the economic and partly political crisis of the European Union, the European Union has the highest standards in terms of democracy, in terms of individual rights and freedoms, in terms of the facility of social state. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Yes, thank you very much. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0097par0192	Thank you, Mr. Elvan. Now on behalf of the government, Minister of the European Union, Mr. Egemen Donate. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 17 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0098par0196	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, on the basis of the 2012 Financial Budget Bill, I stand before you to respond to comments made by our representatives and MPs on the budget of the Ministry of the European Union and to share the views of our government with the Supreme Assembly. I hereby salute the High Council. First of all, I'd like to begin by thanking all of our MPs for contributing to our European Union process under the great roof of the nation's will. I bless all of our past lawmakers, who are not among us, who have migrated to eternity today. Membership of the European Union passes through the General Assembly of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Our work, under the principle, has indeed reached a point that Turkey and our nation have appreciated in the last nine years, determined by our government. As Gazi Mustafa Kemal was opening our House, it gives our nation great confidence that from 23 April 1920, all authorities and the whole nation will be the only members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and today our beloved Parliament is doing its duty in accordance with the same spirit. This is the platform where all Turkey's issues will be discussed, and Turkey is the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly. This is the basis for Turkey's every issue to be boldly, sincerely, openly discussed. Thus, the fact that we are doing each and every one of the reform moves we make under the European Union accession talks is a sign of our nation's sensitivity to this issue. I say this at every opportunity: the European Union is not just 12 stars on the blue floor, the symbol of the European Union and the Council of Europe. The European Union process is no longer a subject of debate in Ankara or Brussels alone. The process of the European Union has now become a well-coordinated, assessed process in our daily lives, in our 81 provinces, in the co-ordinating of our vice governors in charge of the European Union. As a result of this process, each country without exception has become more democratic, more transparent, more prosperous countries in the negotiation process. The European Union is an advanced democracy. The European Union represents a more transparent, improved process. Our country has also achieved great success in the process. That's why our people have always been behind this process. The founder of our Republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal, did not rise above the level of muasar civilizations. When he bequeathed his goal to us, he was actually pointing to the standards of today's European Union. In 1959, Menderes, who started the first process, God rest his soul, said that Turkey had taken its first step towards Europe. In 1963, the late Ismet Inönu signed the Ankara Agreement, showing us the European Union as the bravest creation of human intelligence throughout human history. The late Turkut Özal expressed our membership in the European Union as a long, thin road. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has explained this process to us as our most important modernisation project since the republic's declaration. It is a duty for all of us to perform this process that our nation deserves for Turkey to be among the most modern countries in the world. Our reforms in line with the European Union's goal have made Turkey more reliable, more predictable. We see each and every one of our lives being different in the process of the European Union. The European Union process covers many issues from the choice of our building managers to consumer rights, from the gram of bread from the oven to the scale of the grocery store, from the standards of the toys that our children play with to the hygiene standards of food that we consume. We have all witnessed our country's reforms in the process of the European Union, in many cases, until we were encouraged by the standards of the milk of the cow that was milked in our village. Unfortunately, in some countries in the European Union, we see today that we are compared with Turkey's Turkey, in 1959 or 1963, where Turkey has made that first application, and that we are still struggling with mentalitys that think that the day is being lived within Turkey. In those days, Turkey's income per capita was $400,000, and we're now, hopefully, over $11,000, and we'll get $25,000 on our 2023 target. In those years, Turkey's annual tourism revenues were $8m. It went up to over 30 billion dollars today, with its side income. Turkey, which can export $368m in 63, is now locked to 500 billion export targets in 2023. But most of all, in those days, when we were out on the streets looking for tanks, we became a country today that inspired countries in our region about democracy, about human rights, about freedom of expression.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0099par0207	The TV just showed the woman's torture at the police station last night. You guys don't watch TV or anything! And what country were the cops in who beat her up?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0098par0208	Turkey is no longer a country of taboos. Turkey is no longer a country of taboos. Turkey is no longer a country that needs 70 cents. As a matter of fact, in those days, Turkey, which was unable to see more than 12 hours later, has now reached a building that works together for the goals of 2023, that sweats together. This process has always been a national issue for Turkey. In our process of the European Union, it is our duty to raise the standards of our country, with its power and opposition, to all of us. However, the budget of our ministry, which operates as the reform kitchen of this national issue, is being discussed, and it is a very dire result when an MP hires a Turkish soldier and declares him an invader in Cyprus. Friends, as part of my mission, I have struggled very importantly to convince the European Parliament or the European Union that Turkey's peacekeeping operation, which was carried out on various platforms in 1974, has brought peace to the island without bleeding to my nose, and I have come into very important debates. I've always been honored to do this in different parliaments and to defend my country. But I find it absurd to respond here in our own Parliament, here in the General Assembly of this saintly Assembly, to those who call the Turkish soldier "Imperious". Our nation will give them the answer in the chest. In both our country and in some countries that are members of the European Union, some narrow visionary minds oppose Turkey, and Turkey's efforts to prevent the reform process only whip us. Maybe they can put some obstacles in our negotiation process, but they can't stop our reform process at all, because it's our problem. That's why we're focused on reforms. At this moment, I'm telling you clearly that if the European Union member states made a decision to remove some very irrational, extremely unnecessary political barriers over 18 chapters in Turkey, we, together with you, were able to face the work together in this Parliament, to open up ten new chapters in 12 months and 15 new chapters in 18 months. Look, if we go back a little bit, on April 14, 1971, Deputy Prime Minister Attila Karaosmanoglu says exactly this: "It will take 2359 years for us to reach the level of the common market." Later, the DPT report "Some Directions of the Third Five Year Plan" states that Turkey needs eighty-eight years to reach the Common Market. We were talking about this 40 years ago, but we came to power on November 3, 2002, and on December 17, 2004, we ended Turkey's 45-year wait, and we got the European Union's decision to start negotiations. From October 3, 2005, we have opened thirteen chapters of talks, and as this negotiation process continues, we are aware of this.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0100par0213	How many chapters are closed, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0098par0214	Our country is now much ahead of many EU member states, and has been inspired by reforms by many countries. Friends, our Ministry serves as Turkey's reform kitchen, conscious of its mission, as the European Secretary-General is formed as the Ministry of the European Union in the formation of the European Union. Yes, Turkey has faced obstacles that no country has ever faced, but in this process, Turkey has been an inspiration to people today, who have been put on the streets with demands of democracy and freedom in the Middle East and North Africa, risking their own lives, and that is, our democracy, the reforms we take in our process of the European Union, not just us, but the people in our region. We continue our reforms as if we are going to become members of the European Union tomorrow, while we try to do our best with the strength we receive from you to express the arguments that Turkey is right on every occasion. We especially emphasize that Turkey's EU accession will be the most important peace project of the 21st century, on every platform we go to. Thanks to our efforts today, we see that Turkey's importance is now declared by statesmen of the European Union, not just by thinkers and academics. Look, last week, the foreign ministers of 11 different EU member states wrote a joint article and published it in major European publications. That's not what we're saying. They stress in that article how critical our country is to the European Union, how important Turkey's role in the region is to Turkey's economic potential and market for the European Union market. So I find it useful to repeat in front of all of you. These reform steps and actions are for our nation. We don't do any reforms for Europeans, we do all reforms to improve the living standards of our own citizen. That's why we've been closely monitoring the recent positive agenda of the European Union Commission, but this positive agenda will not be an alternative to our negotiation process in any way, and on the contrary, it will be an effort to support our negotiation process, both we and the European Union Commission has confirmed.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0101par0217	Mr. Secretary, what does the European Union Progress Report say about human rights, the judiciary, the arrested MPs? You're doing what you want.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0098par0218	The perception of reality as a threat should be seen as a confession of inability and political impropriety to those who can't face those facts alone. Instead of explaining to Turkey the importance of this mechanism by the European Union's governments and heads of state, we also have to give them the opportunity to explore the point of the term presidency. We've taken very important steps together to change international perception without removing a single soldier from the island with bold steps about Cyprus, and today I want to stress with special emphasis that the Cyprus issue is now a national issue, a common thought of all political parties here. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are experiencing one of the most important economic depressions in the history of the European Union, but as a country, we have experienced much heavier ones in the past. In this country, we have not forgotten that 8,000 per cent of interest was paid until a Constitutional brochure took off at the end of a table and fell to the other end. We have not forgotten as a nation how people in this country went bankrupt overnight, how their debts tripled, how their assets fell in half. The success of Turkey today in the European Union's process, perhaps most affecting Europeans, is the success of the economy. Different reviews were brought up here. We respect them, but believe me, we are a government now aware of the importance of the European Union to Turkey. Yes, Turkey is at a very different point with really growth rates, with its young population, with access to energy sources. But the European Union and then our Minister of Economy will explain that it's an important geography that we've done 50 per cent of our foreign trade, and despite the economic difficulties that it's going through, the geography of the European Union, which today is at the highest standards of per capita well-being, democracy, freedom of expression, food safety. Therefore, we sincerely believe that the economic crisis within the European Union will not be permanent, that Europeans will survive this process by connecting with democracy, which is their most important value, just as we have overcome that process with stability and trust. Europe and I just don't know each other. Our relationship with the European Union has a process of fifty-two years. Therefore, with the support of our nation, we sincerely believe that we will come to a different point with your support. Different reviews came up here. I don't want to go into too much of their details, but really, what Mr. Furkcü said about Cyprus upsets us. I want to stress it specifically. Mr. Turkkan, I really don't think he's taking the dose of a number of criticisms that Mr. Turkkan has done here. I recommend that he take a vuvuzela from Group Deputy Chairman Oktay Bey. I think he'll be more successful in that regard.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0102par0226	That's not what we thought of you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0098par0227	I respect Ms. Dawn's criticism, but there was some technical misinformation there.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0102par0228	We don't like you either.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0098par0229	He counted five chapters and said they had to be opened.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0103par0230	Your apology is greater than your fault, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0098par0231	I'd like to stress in particular that two of those chapters are already open.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0104par0232	How will you bring democracy to this country? You don't believe in democracy!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0105par0233	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0106par0234	You're blacking us out in there.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0107par0235	Listen up, listen up!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0108par0236	The interesting thing is that some of the comments that Ms. Şafah has expressed here, both about positive agendas and about Cyprus...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0106par0237	Just because we don't keep our voices down here doesn't mean we're taking this the right way.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0108par0238	...the opening of the ports, as well as some of their views on the presidency of the term...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0106par0239	You're being fascist in Turkey, fascist!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0109par0240	Mr Turkkan, please.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0108par0241	...I find it very intriguing that no document of CHP is included in the party programme, not in the election declaration. He wanted to make sure that the CHP had really corporate ideas.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0110par0242	When will you accept the criticism?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0108par0243	Friends, look, this is not a banana that gives you the taste of what you eat in the European Union, it's a process of democratization, the European Union is a superior legal process. If the CHP is going to form a European Union sentence without the word "mama" in it, we support the European Union, but... if it's going to do something without saying, we're ready for cooperation.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0111par0245	No one says "but," Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0112par0246	Oh, Mr. Secretary, that's a shame!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0108par0247	But look, the European Union, simply known as the EU, consists of two letters, A and B, but not in it.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0113par0248	Unconditional surrender is not for us, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0108par0249	We really find it difficult to understand the CHP's "ama"s. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as I put an end to my words here, I'd like you to tell my fellow lawmakers...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0114par0251	The CHP has never called the European Union the Christian club, Mr. Secretary, that's your history.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0108par0252	...to all our institutions, to Turkey's democratisation process, Turkey's transparency process, Turkey's development process, to sum up Turkey's European Union process, I want to thank each and every one of you separately for your support.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0114par0253	CHP's European Union policy has been clear from the beginning. He didn't coerce like you, CHP.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0108par0254	We really hope that our country has reached a different point today, but Turkey's goal is at a much higher point because we are determined in 2023 to be one of the 10 most powerful economies in the world, to be a country that is truly an inspiration in the European Union.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0115par0255	Not with you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0108par0256	See, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our republic, set a goal, said to rise above the level of modern civilizations. He did not say to capture the level of modern civilizations. So our goal is to rise above the standards of the European Union, to set an example for European Union member states, to inspire them. In this feeling and thought, I wish that our 2012 budget would bring blessings to our country, to our nation, to the European Union, and to the peace of the world, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0116par0259	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0117par0260	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0118par0261	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0116par0262	Now, let the gentleman sit down, one by one, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0119par0264	Mr. President, I'd like to have a word with you first to go over the paperwork.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0120par0265	Mr. Shandir, if you'll excuse me, I was up first.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0119par0266	Excuse me, I'm not going to speak, sir, I'm not going to...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0120par0267	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0119par0268	The Minister wants vuvuzela? Have Mr. Oktay Vural send it to him and blow it out to the Europeans. How do you explain Turkey to those Europeans you call "simplified" you tell them in vuvuzela.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0121par0269	Don't speak differently there, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0119par0270	Actually, I think it'd be better if we sent you a hit.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0122par0271	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0123par0272	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0124par0273	Now, first, Mr. Hamzacebi... in order to all of you, please... Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0123par0275	In his speech, Mr. Minister used a number of sentences aimed at the Republican People's Party's bid for the European Union. The sentences he used, the statements he said had nothing to do with the Republican People's Party programme. That's why I'd like word, sir, for bullying.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0124par0276	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0125par0277	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0124par0278	So I'll listen to all of you...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0126par0281	Mr. President, Mr. Donor, the minister of the European Union and the first minister of the Republic of Turkey, who has the title of the chief negotiator, have a very important task to manage the process that will carry Turkey into the European Union. The European Union process was not a process that began with the AKP, but its history was very old, and Turkey lost a lot of time on it, starting in 1959 with its application to the European Economic Community, as the Democratic Party at the time. The Ankara Agreement, adopted during the Republican People's Party government in 1963, is drawn a legal framework for Turkey-European Economic Community relations with its adopted Ankara Agreement.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0127par0283	Mr. President, I've already told you that.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0126par0284	This relationship is based on the Republican People's Party, which is the basis of the relationship with the European Union today. Yes, Turkey has lost time over the past 1960s. He signed the customs unit in 1996. In 1999, at the Helsinki Summit of State and Governments, Turkey was declared a full member of the European Union. The European Union process that you prided today as the AKP, the process you started in 2004, the process you started under the name full membership, was actually a privileged accession process. In December 2004, you came to a process where you went back to the rest of the 1999 full-fledged membership from the EU. Now, in 2004, you covered up that full-privileged membership and presented a process under the name of full membership to the community. Well, that's a lot of excitement. The concession membership has not been noticed, but where we come from today, membership in the European Union, privileged membership is no longer a dynamic that excites society. The AKP was left with its own dynamics. Today, membership in the EU has, unfortunately, been transformed into a process that is breaking in society, not a process that is exciting by AKP governments. There are 33 chapters, 13 were opened and not closed, of course Cyprus stands before us as a closure criteria. Look, here on the European Ministry of the Union's page, we know what the situation is. The process isn't working. You say as much as you want, France and Germany have not kept their promise, Turkey has made amendments to the Constitution to bring full membership in the referendum. The government is in charge of the process, the excuse cannot be called in Europe. If the European Union hadn't put up an obstacle, we'd be out of business. Mr. Secretary, let him answer for this. My respects.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0128par0288	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0126par0289	The microphone's turned off, but I'll tell you this: Mr. Shafak Pavey just spoke here on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. The Republican People's Party is a party that advocates full membership, not privileged membership. This is our program. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0128par0292	Mr. Turkkan, before you make a fuss.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0129par0293	Why?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0130par0294	Sir, I'd like to speak according to Article 69, who taunted me with the mention of my name.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0128par0295	Reverend, I've already given it to you. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0130par0296	Just to satisfy the lady's curiosity, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0128par0297	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0130par0299	Sir, the first condition of democracy is to be open to criticism. If you're not open to criticism, let alone bringing democracy into the country, you can't be democratic. You can never be a minister worthy of Turkey, which you say is on the path to the European Union! You don't belong in this country, Mr. Secretary! (Applause from MHP rows) You don't belong in this country's ministry!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0131par0301	You look good in it?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0130par0302	Get out of that chair you're sitting in with the Prime Minister's torpedo! We're waiting for a minister worthy of this nation!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0132par0304	Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0130par0305	I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0133par0307	Mr. President, how dare he speak!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0134par0308	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0135par0309	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0136par0310	Shame on you! Sit down!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0137par0312	We've seen a lot of heroics from where they stand. Come on in, I'm waiting.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0135par0313	Mr. Turkkan, please...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0138par0314	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0135par0315	Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0139par0316	Don't be a pencil bully.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0140par0317	Don't wave your fingers, it's a shame!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0141par0318	Mr. President, dear friends...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0139par0319	I'll shake something else if I come over there, just so you know. Sit down! Sit down! You dirty man!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0142par0320	Mr. President, say he's sorry! That's no way to behave!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0143par0322	Sit down!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0144par0323	Mr. Furry, go ahead.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0145par0324	You sit down, too! You sit down, too! You're rude! Sit down!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0143par0326	You sit down, too! You're rude!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0146par0327	It doesn't suit you, sir, it doesn't!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0147par0328	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please, Mr. Furcier, continue.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0148par0329	I don't show respect to anyone who doesn't deserve it.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0147par0330	Congressmans, please... the Minister will answer.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0149par0331	That's a pretty heavy statement he's using.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0147par0332	I didn't hear him, all of us together... one second... one second... for God's sake...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0150par0333	Apologise, Mr. President!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0151par0334	You're the Minister's lawyer!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0147par0335	Can you calm down... now, look, your Group Vice President, whether it's a promise or a plea, but when you talk together, I don't really understand what anyone's saying, I really don't. Mr. Furry, please, before you start picking on me.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0152par0338	Okay. Mr. President, dear friends, I'm sorry to upset our minister, but it's better that he doesn't just be so upset by my words, because he listens to these words in all international diplomats, all the international forums he's faced, because the UN Security Council Resolution 550 says: I repeat this decision to divide Cyprus. I think this decision is more accurate than the minister's. A number of Cypriots feel the same way. Now instead of talking proudly here, I invite everyone to remember the history debates we've already had. How proud were the ministers of that time in the 1930s? But now, a Prime Minister apologizes on behalf of the ministers of that time. In the future, in terms of the history of Turkey, what the Cypriot Operation would mean, perhaps it will be viewed in a different way in terms of world history. Then this UN Security Council decision will need to appeal to the opinions of those who think as I do. So it's a shame if you don't say it under this House. In other places than this parliament, elsewhere, our Minister listens to what is said to him every day in the United Nations, backstage or in session of the European Union, but here he is offended by a congressman saying so.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0153par0340	I don't get pain there, I get pain here.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0152par0341	Don't let anything get to you. We live in a whole world, history is being rebuilt, rebuilt every day. Your interpretation of history may be invalid in a few years. If the Annan Plan had come true, perhaps you would have spoken otherwise. Therefore, instead of condemning people for their honest, openly revealing views, you may not like the view that his is like yours, but you can't make values from here, we won't allow it. We are as citizens of this Republic of Turkey as you are, and we have the right to think and speak as we please. Especially where we're going to talk about this. I will not be condemned for this, and I will return it.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0154par0342	Who occupied Cyprus? By Europe...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0155par0343	Mr. President, Mr. Turkkan is speaking...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0156par0344	Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0155par0346	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, will be the bench of criticism, and everything will be discussed on this stand. Criticism, yes, but never insults. Look, so far, we've sat here as all the friends in our group as masters, talking to the budget, even to all the harsh insults, okay, criticism. We said, we tried not to make the possible noise, but a congressman here can't say that to Mr. Secretary. A congressman here can't shake a finger and say anything else if I want to. The congressman who said that has to come here and apologize.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0157par0348	I stand by my promise.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0155par0349	It's an insult to the nation. On this nation's stand, this nation, this nation, this nation's representatives, is an insult. Don't be rude. You'll say, "You'll wave your finger." You'll say, "If I want, I'll shake something else." This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and if you call it the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we'll go there, but this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, no one has the right to insult it here. Mr. President, I'd like to invite the Congressman to apologize. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0158par0353	First you tell the Minister, first you tell your friends, then you come back here. Just say it over there.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0159par0354	Mr. President, after the speech of a member of our group,
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0158par0356	Tell him not to insult me, then tell him. Your Minister insulted me first.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0160par0357	He didn't swear at anyone.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0158par0358	He did, he insulted me.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0160par0359	He didn't insult anyone, he didn't insult anyone. He didn't use any of those words.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0161par0360	Sir, after the speech of a member of our group, Mr. Group Vice President has spoken harsh words to our group.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0160par0361	I didn't legalize your group, I told the Congressman.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0162par0362	No, he didn't say anything to the group, he didn't say anything.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0160par0363	I didn't say anything to the band.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0162par0364	Now, I'd like to invite the entire group of vice presidents in the back, please, to take a break.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0163par0365	Sir, but Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0162par0366	After that, I'll give you my word if I have to.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0163par0368	Sir, but Mr. President, without any misunderstanding...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0162par0369	He's going to fix a misunderstanding, and then I'm going to take a break, and I'm going to ask the group vice presidents back. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0163par0372	Dear friends, of course, if we start talking about the results here, we won't be able to find the truth. Here, lawmakers sometimes make statements that are beyond their means... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Please, allow me. ...but in the evaluation of this, a Minister gets up, here... does it suit you, what do you say, you make him sing? Is that appropriate, Mr. Secretary? So, Mr. Lütfü, shouldn't you say something to Mr. Secretary who's come out here and made statements that make you uncomfortable? Is it appropriate, Mr. Secretary? That's the truth of the matter.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0164par0376	There's no reason to insult me, Mr. Glory.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0163par0377	So, dear friends, every time I say, if you don't see yourself as great, if you don't feel responsible, if you see the obligation to answer every word thrown at you, we can't get rid of these arguments.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0164par0378	We answer the insult, Your Honor.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0163par0379	Mr. Secretary has been responsible for these discussions. Therefore, the words of Lütfü Bey may not or may not enjoin our group, but may be words that exceed that purpose...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0165par0380	Let him come and apologize, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0163par0381	...but Mr. Secretary is responsible for this. Yes, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, who has been tasked with moving Turkey to the European Union, in his manner, and in my personal opinion, it does not suit Turkey, that's the bottom line.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0165par0384	Does the Congressman look good on you? Mr. Chancer, it didn't happen.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0163par0385	Yeah, that's the gist of it, guys. Otherwise, we are not happy with the results, nor are we pleased with the results. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0165par0387	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0166par0388	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0165par0389	Mr. President, was Mr. Prime Minister going to ask the MHP Group when he was choosing the ministers, dear? For God's sake, that's not gonna happen. A group of non-profits in the Republic of Turkey has actually expressed the need to renege on their own MP. We're asking you to bring in the Congressman and apologize.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit04spe0166par0390	I'm gonna take 15 minutes off from the merger, and I'm gonna have to ask the group's vice presidents in the back.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0166par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law for 2012 and with the Central Management Act for 2010. The commission is here. The government is here.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0167par0005	Mr. President, if I may, I have an explanation.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0166par0006	Mr. Turkkan, I'm turning on your microphone.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0168par0007	Mr. President, I'd like to briefly mention my position according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0166par0008	No, I'm not giving it to you. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0168par0009	But the Civil Code...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0166par0010	It says, "He can give." In that charter, I'm not giving it to him today.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0169par0013	Mr. President, they asked the dervishe how do you know the whole thing? He said, "I know it like myself." I never said anything that didn't suit me or my party. I've never made a statement in the sense of it. And I'm really sorry that it was perceived that way. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0170par0015	He didn't apologize, Mr. President. He must use the word "apology," he used harsh expressions.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0171par0016	We brought in the transcripts, we looked at those transcripts together with the group's deputy presidents. Here's the transcripts. So if you'd like to cause a malfunction, be my guest, but our friends looked at it together. So a misunderstanding was also corrected. Now, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0172par0017	How's that for a fix?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0173par0018	Mr. President, is this any kind of correction?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0171par0019	Now, here are the reports.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0173par0020	What did you tell him? That's your height, that's it!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0174par0021	Mr. President, I request a word about my place, short of Cyprus.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0171par0022	Now, Mr. Özdalga, look, a friend of ours from the People's Party of the Republic has asked for a statement in accordance with the 60th article, but as of today, I do not make any promises in accordance with the 60th Amendment of the Civil Code, because the President of the Interior Charter can give it, and so do I. For that, I'm sorry. Now, if it's possible, I'll take the lines of the seventh round. Mr. Pavey, come in.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0175par0025	I was interfered with.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0176par0026	He'll make a correction, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0175par0027	I'll make a correction.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0177par0028	Not according to the 60th article. Come here, come here. You're not picking on me, but...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0175par0030	I don't get picked on either.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0177par0031	No, no one's picking on me, but you're making a correction. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0175par0035	I'm here to make a correction. Mr. Secretary said there were two technical errors in my speech. I don't think I made myself clear. We also know the title of "Gida" and "Environmental" but the titles made without converting any value are the titles opened. I talked about converting values there, one. Secondly -- maybe I can put it better this way -- the AKP government opening its EU headgears, the kind of outfit that had previously been raised with my prosthetic leg, looks like the Civil Code situation. I don't know what happened to the pants somehow, but I'm still coming here with my prosthetic leg. The EU headlines are similar to the one the AKP tried or opened. Thank you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Continue]] D) THE DIVORCE OF EUROPE [[Continue]] .)... the national... [[Continue]] Ü) MADEN DETECTIVE AND EARLIER GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0178par0078	Now in the seventh round, the Minister of Economy Mr. Mehmet Zafer Çağalan.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0179par0080	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0178par0081	Thank you, too. Here you go. Your time is 17 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0084	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute the High Council and wish that our budget, our budgets, bring blessings to our country, to our nation. First of all, today is the 62nd year of our great Parliament's approval of Turkey's membership in the Council of Europe. On this occasion, I would like to begin by congratulating those who have worked on this road so far, the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Minister of the EU, Mr. Donfoglu, and all the workers who have worked to improve the democratic standards of our country, the development of human rights. Yes, dear friends, various opinions have been expressed, many of our friends from our opposition parties and our ruling party have said many things about the economy. However, I would like to point out in particular that whatever is said, the constructive ones will be taken into account by our Ministry, and especially the deficit that we have worked so hard on, and that we will benefit from them at the point of reducing exports from the other side, which you and all of us have complained about, and I would like to start by saying, "The economy of Turkey, whether you see it from a different window or see it from another place, is the world's 17th largest economy at the moment we have seen. While there is a major crisis in the world, there are serious crises in Europe, especially in many countries, Turkey today has achieved an economic success that is exemplary even in Europe. We may have praised ourselves when we said it, but it's expressed in all the countries of the world. During this ministry of two and a half years, I've traveled to about a hundred and a hundred and a hundred and twenty countries, went with businessmen, invited businessmen to our country, and I want to make it very clear to you that this economic achievement that Turkey has achieved today is being watched with envy by all the countries of the world, and I'm proud to say that I'm proud to see how Turkey's economy is doing this in many places. Yes, Turkey today passed a major test in 2008. The 2008 crisis has been expressed every time, while Turkey has increased exports on one side, while education, health, communications, transport, and many important investments in education, health, and transportation, while many of the major economies of Europe continue to continue to rage in many countries, while many countries are being taken to a virtually stable tent, such as the rosary, while Turkey has achieved, on the one hand, the most important investments in education, health, health, communications, transport, and on the other, both in financial discipline, and let alone in many countries, to be able to appreciate what has been done. This is a very clear indication of political stability in Turkey, economic stability in Turkey and the Co-ordination Board of Economics, how together the ministers and bureaucrats work in dialogue. I'm a mechanical engineer, I've been an industrialist for 27 years. I'm from the school. I have a lot of respect for economists. And I can give you thousands, hundreds of graphs, thousands, hundreds of graphs, thousands of numbers. However, I would like to make it very clear, as someone who did not learn from books, television programs, newspapers, that the Turkish economy has been a country that has succeeded in success in many countries around the world today and has achieved extremely important achievements in the face of serious crises. My dear friends spoke, and the Plan and Budget Commission spoke. My ministry, whether it's the Ministry of Economics or something else, but if we're going to discuss what we understand about the economy, I'd like to discuss it. Thank God that in the past tense, when I was President of the Industrial Chamber of Turkey, when I said economics, I don't understand interest, repo, my economic understanding of economics is the real sector, which is investment, which is production, which is exports. And the Ministry of Economics is a ministry that covers all of this, and the Ministry of Economics, to me, has become a perfect fit, and it suits me very well, and I want to thank my Prime Minister here. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, friends, thank God those days are behind us. The Ministry of Economy used to be interest, repolar... because Turkey, unfortunately, had its economy on it, but today Turkey has become one of the most secure ports in the world in terms of foreign capital. Although our exports to Europe have been 50 per cent in the past years, our exports to Europe have dropped to 47 per cent in the past year, and our exports to Europe have increased by 20 per cent in the last year, compared with this year, Turkey has now made $134 billion, the last two months, the last two months, the last two months, the exports, especially in North Africa, which began with the Arab spring, and in spite of the difficulties in our major markets, I say with pleasure that Turkey's exports have increased 20 per cent, and in our history of the eighty-eight-year republic has now increased by 134 billion dollars, the last two months, the last two months, the last year's exports, our exports, our exports have been seen in Africa. (AK PARTY) Now you'll say: "Mr. Minister, you speak from exports, don't you speak from imports?" Now, I'm going to say to those who say that: open up, read the transcripts, occasionally watch TV programs, and occasionally look at newspaper news. If he's not coming, I can send it to you. I'm an importer, I've had a meeting, I've had a press conference on imports. Besides, I don't have to explain the imports. Import numbers are announced by TİK at the end of each month, a month later. You see the balance of payments, you see the numbers of exports. Yes, Turkey is importing today. I'm asking those who have expressed Turkey's imports, the current open issue: for God's sake, what do you mean, it's open? What do you mean, it's open?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0181par0094	What do you understand?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0095	Cari, it's easy to say the obvious, but we're always waiting for your support on why the current deficit is happening, why it's happening, why it's happening, how it should be prevented. But we, look, we're out of business.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0182par0096	We don't understand, you tell us!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0097	Teacher, I respect your opinion, but I came from inside the industry.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0182par0098	I came from inside the economy.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0099	But I teach you about it, I teach you about it, I teach you about it. Look, listen to them, learn from the private sector -- you'll never get this opportunity again. Learn this well, and no one will ever tell you again. But I don't know if you understand. Look, I'm telling you now.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0182par0100	I gave you the title of professor, so enjoy it!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0101	Now, friends, I want to make it very clear that, yes, a few friends of mine talked about the current explanation, they talked about the quality of financing. I haven't said a word since the day I came on this mission to the Ministry -- the quality of financing of the deficit -- because we all agree that the current deficit is a problem, but it's a valid outcome. In order to determine the Cari deficit and the results, we had to do a study.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0183par0102	It's been nine years, ten years...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0103	For this reason, under the Prime Minister's orders, with the signature of our Prime Minister, we have established the Council of the Back Production Strategy in my presidency, and we have assembled all sides of the matter, decision makers, policymakers, and players in the business, and we have evaluated each and every single one of them. After that, we did what we called a study called "SCESES. " I'll send these to my precious teacher, maybe it'll help. IN THE GATES study, we have evaluated the results of the input supply strategy, and the iron steel, automotive, machine, textile, chemistry, agriculture sector... These sectors are the sectors where we imported $103 billion in our $185.5 billion imports last year. These sectors are the sectors that we exported 73 billion dollars in our $114 billion export last year. The foreign trade deficit in the six sectors alone is $30 billion. Look, last year, $185.5 billion was imported, while Turkey imported $38.5 billion in energy. Now, I'm not saying this because I don't want you to look at the number except for energy, but I just want to say that if imports are up today, there are a number of reasons why imports are going up. One of the main reasons for the increase in imports is that oil, which is 75 dollars, goes up to $110 prices, and all the price of assets in the world goes up 20 per cent, 30 per cent, and on the other hand, Turkish lira is overvalued for a period of time.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0184par0105	How much does the other countries get from oil, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0106	Besides, I have to say in particular, it's the warped structure of Turkish industry, and we see the biggest example of the distorted construction of Turkish industry in the iron steel industry. In the iron steel industry today, Turkey is the world's largest importer of iron steel scraps and is the world's most expensive importer of junk. None of this happened today, not in the last five years, not in the last eight years. If you haven't manipulated the Turkish iron steel industry when it's being built, what are you going to do today? But now we say, here's the Ministry of Economics.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0185par0108	What have you been doing for ten years?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0109	Now, as the Ministry of Economics, we've studied one and eight provinces, and I'm going to send these books to you one by one. I hope this will give you important information about the provinces you represent. On the other hand, we've studied the imports of seventy-three countries single-handedly, and in our study in eighty-one provinces, we've determined which provinces can compete with which sectors. Yes, these, now all of them, all of the measures that have been made will be the infrastructure of a new incentive system. I want you to know that the new incentive system will now become a structure that will now target a current deficit that will allow the sectors that are not produced in Turkey to produce in Turkey.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0186par0112	Good morning after ten years!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0113	Thankfully, today there is an environment in our country for direct investments. Guys, look, don't make me talk about numbers, there are thousands of numbers in my memory. I didn't memorize these numbers, bookbooks. Look, I'm saying I came from the inside, I'm from the school, I'm an apprentice. Friends, the total direct investment from Turkey to 2003 was 14.5 billion dollars. The amount of direct investment from 2003 to today, I am proud to say that in eight years, more than seven times eight times and $105 billion in capital came to Turkey (Applause from the AC PARTY), and 85 percent of the 105 billion came from Europe. The capital from Europe has not touched our black eye. This capital has come into Turkey's investment environment, political stability, economic stability, and manpower, and today Turkey has become the country that has received the most direct investments with $105 billion.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0187par0116	What did he do with direct investments, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0117	I expect people of such direct capital, people who love this country, people who live in this country, to be proud of it, regardless of their political opinion, and I want to make it very clear that Turkey, yes, is on its way very quickly. Look, in public debt today, on the other hand, in budget deficits, the European Union can't make decisions because it hasn't been a stable leader for a year. Today, the European Union re-examines the economic constitution of Maastricht and invites the countries to be here, and says: "You will not exceed 60 percent in public debt. You will not exceed 3% in budget deficits. My friends, I would like to express to you that Turkey today is in better position in public debt than in 23 countries of Europe if it rose up and dropped it to 38-percent of its gross revenues, 38-percent of it.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0188par0120	Private sector...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0121	Today, Turkey's budget deficits fall to 1.7 per cent as of this year's end, friends, 1.7%.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0189par0122	The private sector's debt is our debt, isn't it?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0123	Now, this 1.7 percent budget deficit... Look, the Maastricht criteria for the European Union are 3%. With 1.7%, Turkey is in a much better position today than in 27 countries in Europe. Turkey's latest unemployment figures today...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0190par0124	How much does the private sector owe?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0125	... The European Union is lower than its unemployment average, and the unemployment figures in Turkey today...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0190par0126	What's the turnout rate?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0127	... It is better than the 12 countries of Europe.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0191par0128	What's the employment turnout, employment? Tell me about the employment participation.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0129	A friend of ours said, "Sir, unemployment, employment, this is what happens when the numbers are like this.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0191par0130	How many in Europe?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0131	25 million jobs were first employed by 25 million people in the history of the Republic of Turkey. It's a success, it's a success story. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] And it was expressed in terms of the current deficit, it was said that, sir, here, growth depends on the current deficit, growth if the current is open.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0192par0134	He's past the TRT shoot, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0135	That's right, see, the years of Turkey's current deficit, let alone given more years -- God would never let Turkey live those years again -- are 1994-2001, and Turkey has given more because the economy went down in these years. We don't want much of a deal like this, but I just want to say that today, in 183 countries, there's only 55 more jobs, all the rest of the countries are open, and today in 133 countries, Turkey is one of them.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0193par0136	Which one's 10%, Mr. Secretary? Which one's 10 percent?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0137	Look, for those of you who are overpaying, for those who don't know, for those who don't know -- let me say, when you look at 133 countries, 55 countries, most of them are energy-producing countries.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0193par0138	In what country did it go up to 10 percent?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0194par0139	Is there any in China, in China? You always set an example of China.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0140	They're energy-producing countries, so they'll give you the extra.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0194par0141	Does China generate energy, China? Does China have energy?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0142	Many countries are already industrial countries, but in Europe, which is 31 countries of Europe today, friends, 19 of them today are still open.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0195par0143	How many, how many? Just tell me what percent of the unofficial domestic population is.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0144	Cari, the open issue isn't Turkey's problem, and we're saying that we need to deal with the current deficit now...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0195par0145	What percentage is it? Just tell me. Say it, say it. Can you tell me if there's 10%, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0146	Look, God has given us the power to deal with the open, because we've done so much.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0195par0148	Say it, you say it.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0149	Whether you say it or not, we're determined to solve the current deficit until the end, and the incentive system that we're going to bring in on the current deficit, the work that we've done, the work that we've done in the history of the republic, where we have an opening, where we have a problem, where we're doing it. People who complain about energy, I ask, where have you been in the past? Why didn't you do the energy strategy, the energy policy? Why did you wake up Turkey and gas it with natural gas? Now, that's what I'm asking you. The issue of energy is Turkey's difficulty today as a result of past years' neglect.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0195par0151	Why did you keep it going? Why have you kept it going for ten years?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0152	And in the first ten months today, Turkey imported 45 billion dollars in energy. That means $55 billion by the end of this year...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0195par0153	Why did you keep it going?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0154	Why should we continue, we passed our law from the House.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0195par0155	If it was bad, why did you keep it going?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0156	...we will pay the price of energy. Guys, look, let's just face it. Accept what the world accepts! So there's no need to tell the truth the wrong way to oppose it.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0196par0158	You take it, we'll take it!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0159	Today, in Turkey, if public debt, unemployment and other, has reached a good level in exports, these will be applauded, friends. They're watching us from the outside, for God's sake!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0197par0161	We'll accept it if you give us an answer, Mr. Secretary! Tell me, where's 10 percent? Name one example!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0180par0162	Mr. President, I, of course, have the equipment to answer all of this very easily, but of course, I don't have the time, and I'm running out of time. I wish our budget would be a blessing, and I hope that this government will be the one who solves the current open issue. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0198par0167	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0199par0168	Mr. President, about the current deficit, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0198par0169	Hodja, could you just shut up for a second?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0199par0170	Mr. Secretary said he could teach me the numbers about the current deficit. Let me explain.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0200par0171	Sir, there's no teasing there!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0199par0172	There's bullying, but there's open teasing. Let me tell you what the truth is, in my own way. Excuse me.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0200par0173	Sir, no teasing, you said you didn't make any promises according to 60.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0201par0174	Now, look, Mr. Sun, I mean, I promised Mr. Pavey to fix it. For God's sake, let's get this over with, so I'm tired, too. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] One second... one second... Now, he said to her, that's what she said... I watched carefully, you're my hometown, I watched specifically. So, I mean, you don't have to...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0202par0178	In fact, he teased us, and he said, "I'll teach the teachers," but...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0201par0179	Mr. Günal, please... I mean, really, there's no teasing here right now, but I can't hurt you, but you guys have to be big, so let's not get ahead of this, please, just say it here, fix it, move on to things.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0203par0181	I can promise not to tease him. I'll explain.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0201par0182	No, you're not going to pick on him, and he's going to... so look, you tell him from there, for the record, please!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0204par0183	Then let the Minister set us up with a lesson and we'll come back as teachers.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0201par0184	What in God's name is happening to you? I'm talking to Mr. Sun now. What is the matter with you? I'm talking to Mr. Sun, over.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0205par0185	From what I understand, Mr. Secretary, I teach economics teachers.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0201par0186	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0205par0190	Dear lawmakers, I am a professor of economics. Yes, I'm an Alderman, but I'm a professor of economics. Beyond myself, I have to make a defense on behalf of all scientists. Because if... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Excuse me, excuse me, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0206par0194	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0205par0195	If all the professors in all the economic departments don't understand economics, tell the Minister of National Education to shut down the universities, why send your children away and teach them economics.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0207par0196	I told you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0205par0197	80 billion dollars of current transactions have nothing to hide, anything to defend. 80 billion dollars, except for the United States of America...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0207par0198	What 80 billion...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0208par0199	Mr. CaIan, please...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0205par0200	...the record account deficit of 2011...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0207par0201	Where's 80 billion dollars?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0208par0202	Mr. CaIan, please...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0205par0203	...and you created it.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0207par0204	And the rest.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0205par0205	Since you've been in power 400 times as many, you've expanded the external deficit, you'll be creating the $93 billion foreign trade deficit this year, so it's going to be 93 billion more than what this country has bought. It's wrong in the economy. Another mistake is that you said: "There are more countries selling energy." Is that what Germany is? Japan, is it? China, huh? It's completely wrong. If you were in my class, I'd take the professorship I sent you from a distance and sneak you out of first class macroeconomics. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0209par0210	Mr. President, I want a word, too.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0210par0211	Mr. President, I won't make any promises. You said I would, and I want your word.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0211par0212	I'm not. No teasing you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0210par0213	But you did.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0211par0214	No teasing you. I gave it to him without picking on him.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0210par0215	I want to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0211par0216	There was no conversation about you, Mr. Özdalga. What's that got to do with you?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0210par0218	Mr. President, you're promising personal matters, you're making a personal defense, I want you to promise me Cyprus, you're not.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0211par0219	You must speak to Mr. Bahçaplı before you speak to him about the Civil Code, Mr. Özdalga.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0210par0220	Mr. President, I want to talk to you about bullying.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0211par0221	Look, please, just talk to him. Look, don't try to teach me any sense.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0212par0223	Mr. President, I want to make something right.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0211par0224	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0212par0225	I want to correct an abuse. Speaking friends, I can tell you from here. Although there is no bullying, the speakers are making a statement and correcting 69 ▪ under the name of correction. Please, let's not take this abuse.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0213par0227	He said, "I'll teach the teachers."
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0214par0228	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0215par0229	I'll listen to you now and take 20 minutes off after that.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0214par0230	No, there's nothing...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0215par0231	Yes, please.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0214par0232	I've been promised to correct a misunderstanding. Mr. Dawn Pavey didn't take any promises due to the correction. According to Article 69, he was promised because of bullying, and I am correcting him.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit05spe0215par0234	Okay, thank you. I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0215par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law for 2012 and with the Central Management Act for 2010. [[Continue]] D) THE DIVORCE OF EUROPE [[Continue]] .)... the national... [[Continue]] Ü) MADEN DETECTIVE AND EARLIER GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] The commission is here. The government is here. Now in the seventh round, Mr. Taner Yildiz, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Star. Your time is 16 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0216par0047	Mr. President, dear friends, I'd like to welcome you to the 2012 budget for the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. I salute you all. First of all, we've answered about 100 questions from our deputies in the Plan and Budget Commission, and we've sent them an answer. I say this from a point of view: all 621 written motions on transparency, and in the last legislature, all answered, and 315 questions were answered in those same way, along with 315 questions raised in talks on law and international agreements in the General Assembly of Turkey. In the 24th Legislature, from the point of view of written question motions so far, 89 questions have been answered by 100 percent again, and as of today, 100 questions from those 21 of our MPs have been answered by us. I, of course, thank all our friends from our party and opposition who contribute with constructive questions and criticism. By transparency, of course, our lawmakers are sort of running their control mechanisms, and we are more transparently able to share our ministry activities with our friends. Of course, in the meantime, we have to make some adjustments. There's been some misinformation, information pollution, issues that could misdirect public opinion. As a matter of fact, I'm changing my speech to correct that kind of misinformation in the previous talks, and I'd like to get into that sort of thing. For example, there's a particular misunderstanding about nuclear power plants, which is this: pricing mechanisms, how these deals were made, were they hidden, or were there other things being done behind doors? There's a bit of hoarding going on about this kind of thing, and I'd like to share it a little bit more. Dear friends, there have been nearly four large tenders in 40 years, and these large tenders, which are too great to be purged of international relations, have not been concluded on one occasion or another. As a result, Turkey's gains were not achieved in both electricity and industry. We, alone with the intergovernmental agreement, evaluated the offer from the Russian Federation, and sat down to the length of the offer, including prices in the world, our prices, Turkey's conditions, the model we've recently developed. Look, my friends, in our meetings in Japan, and in our meetings in different countries, it has been agreed that it is very accurate to build this model. What was the model? The model in the world is that there are 442 power plants in the world and 63 plants in construction right now. The model is this: he comes in, he builds a company, he pays 100 lira, he takes it and he leaves. He owns it, he runs it, he runs it. We said that in Turkey, including all the risks in the world, the production company, the financier, the manager, all of them will be presented, provided by suppliers, and in return, we just want a fix price. With a price guarantee, we want a fix price. Look, no friend of ours ever mentioned the share that the Treasury shared after 15 years of guarantees in the dividends, but that was one of the most important things of the deal. I take it, again, by good faith, it's an out-of-the-box information. And after 15 years of procurement guarantees, we transfer 20 percent of all profits to the Treasury. This is a very important pen, 20% of all profits. Look, the amount of $12.35 was announced as a euro, about 25 euros.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0217par0053	The beginning, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0216par0054	Here's the beginning. The top and lower prices have been capped, my friends, and the limit has been set; it can't exceed 15.5 cents. Any price, head or tail, or 40 years from now, can't beat $15.5. And that's...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0218par0056	What's the average price in Europe?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0216par0057	I'll tell you all about it, friends; I listened calmly, and now I'll tell you all about it.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0218par0058	We're asking calmly.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0216par0059	Dear friends, if you do this with public resources, the price is different. But it doesn't usually count as public financing interest, they're transferred as a expense, just like we do in HES. We've got HES right now that we're costing $2.35, folks, but in all these costs, public financing doesn't count. But money has value. Ten years ago, when we looked at Turkey's debt limits, the total of our interest revenues normally did not cover our debts. All of our total tax revenues couldn't afford our interest costs, 102.5 percent, friends, let's remember, they're being discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission. Look, the last time we were here, the reduced value is $6.35. What year are we talking about? From the year 2019, we're talking 15 years of purchase guarantees. $12.35 is a fixed price, not an escalation price.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0219par0061	Average, average...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0216par0062	This is what we're talking about right now. We're talking to some companies. Can you give it to them at this price? They say we can't give at that price. Why do we call it? Because there, the Russian Federation has only made that price feasible by injecting a $7 billion loan from the government. We don't interfere with them, all their interest costs, their pens, their financing. Now, what we're saying about this -- we're preaching to the world openly, we're broadcasting it online -- we're saying, "Friends, please, if you have any of these prices, without a guarantee of treasure..."
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0220par0064	Mr. Secretary, why wasn't there a competitive tender?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0216par0065	Guys, we've got a bid, we've got a company, we've got a country. We're saying...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0220par0066	How does a firm come into this? What kind of condition is that?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0216par0067	Friends, please, trust the information I'm telling you. Look, I'm saying this in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. If anyone can say otherwise, they say: "You have deceived the public, you have misled the public."
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0221par0068	Mr. Secretary, didn't you make an international agreement and make this a matter of law? I mean, it's not elegant.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0216par0069	Look, I'm saying: $12.35, we came in, a second firm gave it to us, and we didn't bid on it? I can't say, friends, we're waiting for the second firm to arrive, so please stop the development of the country at this rate, let's wait and see when it arrives.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0222par0070	So the terms are bad, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0216par0071	I'm sorry, we can't call these...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0223par0072	Well, why isn't he coming? What's the reason he didn't come?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0216par0073	We negotiated forty-eight basics. Now, I would like to say again, publicly to the public that if there are firms that can offer such prices or bring such offers, please, let them know if they know any firm from power, opposition, we're waiting for them.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0224par0074	Is there one firm in the world, Mr. Secretary, one firm? We're asking why there's no other firm.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0216par0075	Now, I'll tell you...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0225par0076	What's the reason? Why is there only one company coming?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0226par0077	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0216par0078	Friends, again and again, if there's a second country, a second firm that brings this offer...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0227par0079	Why isn't he coming, Mr. Secretary? Why isn't he coming?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0216par0080	I don't know, brother, go ask them!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0227par0081	See if you can find out why he's not coming.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0216par0082	Why didn't they give them a problem?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0228par0083	It's bad that you're conditioned. Your conditions are heavy.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0229par0084	Cancel the contract, then.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0216par0085	I say, if there's a firm to bid on, if there's a country, please let them make their bid. Now, if they don't have an offer, I can't just sit around and wait.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0229par0086	Unofficially, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0216par0087	Guys, Turkey is moving forward, expanding and growing, and I can't wait for it. Look, I'll give you some numbers in a minute. Friends should underestimate Turkey's growth, but Turkey is growing. Whether you want to see this photo or ignore it, close your eyes or open your ears, Turkey is growing. We should all be proud of it, with its power and opposition, and say, "How nice, Turkey is growing."
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0230par0089	I wish he would grow up.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0216par0090	In my previous talk, I mentioned: Why did Turkey need political AK PARTY in Turkey? No one votes against anyone's black eye, dear friends. So does the AK PARTY. The AK PARTY gets stronger because it's doing the right thing, and the stronger it gets, the more accurate it gets, the more capable it gets. If you didn't need an AK PARTY on November 3, 2002, no one would have voted for the AK PARTY, my friends.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0230par0091	Mr. Secretary, it's about nuclear energy.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0216par0092	AK PARTY is not a party that has come to power by taking advantage of the weakness of any party. At the same time, AK PARTY...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0230par0093	That's the hammock!
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0216par0094	That's how you read politics, folks. If, along with the referendum, a ruling party can increase its vote before the election is worn out, it's only because it owes it to the right, friends, and because it's right, it's not for anything else.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0231par0096	Get to the point... Back to the point...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0216par0097	Look, a friend of ours said he's hurting about the information. Dear friends, the first deal was made in 1999, and I repeat, the first deal was held in 1999, which cost $95 million in damage to 2010. Look...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0232par0098	Why did you change oil for $18?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0216par0099	Guys, I listened to you very carefully. Mr. Necati, have I ever interfered? I never did, did I? Please, hear me out. Look, any...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0233par0100	Mr. Secretary, you address the General Assembly. Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0216par0102	Look, it cost $95 million. By 2042, the damage to Turkey by 1999 was $1.1 billion, minus. What did we do? We told the consortium members that this is not a sustainable deal, we want this money. Although Turkey has no legal rights, it was signed under it in 1999. Look, this is a historical event. The friends who signed under him may not have been malicious, but the results of the deal he brought today were 95 million dollars in damage and a legacy of collateral damage. The last time we were here, we said, as a government, we're not going to take anything from you legally, but it's not a sustainable deal. You're going to make 72 billion dollars in turn, but the Turkish government is going to lose $95 million from here. There's no such thing as a installment. We asked him to be paid back. They said, "Give us some time." We gave them time, and they said, "You're right. They're going to pay us $100 million right now, including the damage we've done before our power, and we've changed a formula for a total of $4.7 billion plus profit by 2042. Now, if you're going to talk about BLIL, friends, you're going to have to talk about this information because that's how the sequel goes. If you read only one piece of the film without seeing the end, you'd be inadvertently misleading the public. I don't want to say it either, but I don't want to. Let's continue: Look, you spend hundreds of millions of dollars in the Black Sea, but you can't find oil, they said. I'd like to share it with you. In the deals we've made with Exxon Mobil, Chevron, Petrobras, BP, the basic principle is that if you don't find oil, you're going to spend $750 million -- just to tell you about the Exxon Mobile Agreement -- you're going to shoot two wells -- about $200 million per well, around 250 million -- if you find oil from here, we're going to share it, you're going to spend it; that's the deal.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0234par0104	It's like this all over the world.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0216par0105	I'll talk about the one in the Black Sea, because the Black Sea is the subject.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0235par0106	Oil or gas?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0216par0107	So far, around $4 billion has been spent on reduced figures; less than $500m has been given by the Turkish Oil Anonymous, but the $3.5 billion was given by these foreign companies. Now, this is the essence of the search for oil in the Black Sea. BP made a call...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0235par0108	They're looking for gas hydrates, gas hydrates.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0216par0109	He hit a $200 million well; he couldn't find oil; he drank a glass of cold water on top of it, and he left, but we're saying that we wish he'd found oil and shared the costs.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0235par0110	They're learning about gas hydrate beds.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0216par0111	Our goal isn't to pay for oil, it's not to pay for wells, it's to pay for oil, but if oil isn't coming out, the company that's doing the research should pay for it, but if oil is coming out, it should all be shared together. I'm passing, look, we're talking electricity prices. Guys, I have to share a fact with you. The consumer habits are changing in Turkey. We're going to have to compare the money that's been paid for cell phones over the last ten years and the money that's been paid for electric bills. It's not a necessary explanation for the power increases, so I'm not saying it, I'm just going to talk about something about consumer habits, but I've got 22 seconds left. So, maybe I'll leave it to the QA. I want to talk about all these feelings and ideas, about the amount that will be spent on investment in the Ministry of Energy, will be shared in almost four billion euros in a different way by almost all general administrations, and will be transferred to Turkey's development, its growth. With all these thoughts and feelings, I wish you all the best, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0236par0116	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the individuals, the final word is...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0237par0118	Mr. President, Mr. Energy Minister Akkuyu has given information about the nuclear power plant, adding that the tender process is extremely transparent, adding that all opposition parties who have come up with views against it -- defaming it -- have made accusations. I'd like to remind the Minister and General Assembly that the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant tender has been negotiated to an international agreement. According to Article 90 of the Constitution, international agreements are under law and cannot be prosecuted in any way in the Constitutional Court for violation of the Constitution. Normally, when a government, a ministry, an institution, is subject to the control of the judiciary, the Akkuyu Nuclear Plant has been taken out of control by being placed inside the international agreement. Therefore, there is no transparent situation, but there is a tender that has been kidnapped from the judicial process. This is for the information and attention of the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0238par0122	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0239par0123	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0238par0124	Mr. Özensoy...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0239par0125	Mr. President, with regard to BLIL, Mr. Secretary has expressed what I said in a wrong way.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0238par0126	Your name didn't come up, Mr. Özensoy. Then fix it from here, for the record.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0239par0128	Let me fix it from here.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0238par0129	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0239par0130	Mr. Secretary of State, as I said, admitted that the damage had been done, but why did we go to task when BIL had to oil the barrel for $18 in the deal that day, when BTC had later been put on natural gas, because of their failure to maintain natural gas prices and because we had no legal rights? It's been investigated, and $20 million has been paid for incursion. Now, the problem with natural gas is Azerbaijan, and the BTC won't give it to him for the next 150 million cubic metres that the Minister is talking about in the coming years. He's giving it to BOTASH, but he's about to use it in BOTASH's compressors. I mean, we're glad to be compensated for the damage to the past, but...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0240par0131	Mr. President, there's no such procedure, please... we'd like to know how the friend put it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0239par0132	...the cause of the injury is as I say it is, and it's been investigated, and as a result of the investigation, my inquiry will be waived. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0240par0134	Mr. President, please, let's not do this again.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0239par0135	Oh, he's gonna ask you, Mr. President?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0240par0136	Be careful.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0239par0137	What do you mean?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0241par0138	You're talking to Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0240par0139	I'm talking to the President, I'm not talking to you, you can't answer me.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0242par0140	On behalf of the individuals, the last word against Mr. Demir Çelik.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0243par0141	What do you mean, you can't? For God's sake! Our words will be twisted, so we won't talk here.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0244par0142	If we can fix all your conversations, it's gonna be...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0243par0143	Fix it, you've already fixed it.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0245par0144	Mr. Özensoy, please... Here you go, Mr. Steel. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0246par0147	Mr. President, most highly respected MPs, while we salute you all, I have made a promise against the budget of our three ministries, which we discussed later this evening. Dear President, dear lawmakers, the wealth of the country we are citizens of is the happiness, its pride, its pride, but it's not true if this wealth will lead to a sense, a mindset, that will cause the consumption of land, its labor, its knowledge, its capital and capital savings, therefore, to centralize capital and wealth. It is precious and meaningful to share the wealth created by society in a fair and even manner. It is certain that wealth, which cannot be shared by society, fair and equally undistributable, leads to authoritarian and totalitarian regimes, without democracy, without democracy, but without modern and without modernity. In this respect, both the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, the basic motto of the Ministry of European Union and its understanding, the understanding of this central capital, is based on new business services that will lead to the savings of this central capital, so I made a promise not to close the foreign trade deficit, but to vote against all of you, not to close the current business deficit, but to create and share it, but to honor you once again, and to greet you with a good night of mutual concern that monastic capital will lead to the dissolution of society.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0245par0149	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Congressmans, the talks on the seventh round are complete. Now, let's move on to the question-answer process. Dear Light...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0247par0153	Thank you, Mr. President. My questions are for the Minister of Energy. Mr. Minister, since the Kütahya Province of Rabbit has not drawn a natural gas line to the Organised Industry District, the province has not been given natural gas so far. Manufacturers are victims. Can you find a solution to that? I'd like to take your opinion. My second question: does your Ministry work on improving staff and autonomy rights and resolving their problems? Another question is, where are the regulations for domestic manufacturing support for renewable energy sources? Can you give me a calendar on that? Last question: Is it true that TPAO will buy a three-dimensional seismic research vessel? If it's true, where is this work at? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0248par0160	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0249par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask our Minister of Economics: How do you assess the rates of continuing downsizing exports since 2003? Isn't this going to be a bad turn for Turkey? What will the average citizen be billed for an estimated $120 billion current account deficit for 2012? Another question: Do you intend to do a study on the ease of receiving green passports to overcome the visa problem in European countries by exporting serious numbers, paying high taxes? I have a question for the Minister of Energy: there's a missing share in the electricity bills. Do you have any work to make this right? Isn't that a punishment for honest citizens? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0250par0167	Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0251par0168	Mr. Secretary, I have a question about energy. You opened up a day's application for these power bleachers, and only those who applied on that day got a license. Those who don't need a license later can't start these businesses right now. Do you have any history of re-license for wind power? Can people get a license? Second: 500 kilowatts of bleachers without a license. That doesn't satisfy the need, it's smaller now. Do you plan to take this to a thousand kilowatts, keeping an eye on the local bleachers? Do you have this kind of work? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0252par0172	Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0253par0173	I ask the Minister of Energy: How much electricity has been sold since the sale of from Antalya Manavgat Oymapınar Dam to Sejdişehir Aluminum Factory? What's his financial value? 2) The Privatisation Administration is selling HESEs. Is it in the public's interest to sell free instead of $2 billion? 3) Why do we insist on nuking all of the nuclear power plants in 12 years? What are the partners and ratios of the company to build? 4) Do you find the reactions of the people of Sinop and Mersin inadequate? 5) How many stone, marble, or mining licenses have you given in Turkey in the last year? How many have been activated? 6) Where were you when Greek rule in the eastern Mediterranean had been researching for ten years and now produced natural gas? 7) There are 30 staff members including the Governing Body at the National Bor Research Institute; 13 executives, 5 high school graduates, remaining drivers, secretaries, etc. You're going to remove the pipe with this staff?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0254par0180	Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0255par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. My question will be to the Minister of Energy. Kastamonu Province is a province of 1,070 and 2,620. After the privatisation of TEDAS, we have peasants in our counties and villages who have suffered a 15 to 20-day loss of electricity for any reason. Do you plan on doing any work on our peasants? My other question is, do we have employees at the Bor Institute, who do projects, who you've shut down at the point of expertise? Have our employees been published on the website?
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0256par0185	Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0257par0186	Thank you. My question to the Minister of Victory. Mr. Minister, at the opening of our October 1st Parliament, Mr. President stated that there was 82 cents in exports imported from abroad. I believe that word is true, do you? How are you going to raise this country with 18 cents if we believe in it? Another thing: How are you going to save the country from this foreign trade deficit and the coil of the budget deficit? So as the foreign trade deficit grows, the budget deficit decreases, imports must be stopped so that the budget deficit can be closed. How are you going to stop it? They took Turkey out of production. Do you agree with his thesis, you removed it. Do you agree with his thesis? I'd like your opinion on these matters. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0258par0192	And also calculate the shipping for these 18 cents.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0259par0193	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0260par0194	Thank you. My question is to the Minister of Energy. Electric distribution companies are both able to sell electricity and receive counter-reading money. Do you find this practice correct, and do you plan to arrange it? It also has a significant share of the world's scale and reserves, and the boron mine has increased to a higher capacity and has a high quality in its recent work. Does the government have a government's work to promote production of boron-related products in our country? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0261par0199	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0262par0200	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask our Minister of Economy: You know, Aladağ, Pozanti, Karaisan are being heavily chrome operators in the Toroslar region, which includes our boroughs. Instead of exporting the chrome ore here as raw matter ore, we can increase the exchange entry by 3-4 times if we export it as an added ferrochrome. Is there any way we can encourage this area to build a ferrochrome plant? Second: Our province of Adana became the champion of Turkey in unemployment and poverty during your reign. According to the neighbouring provinces, the Act for Instigation, which you issued in 2009, was at a disadvantage. In each statement, you say, "I am also the Minister of Adana." Do you plan to invest in Adana? Will you have a study to correct the injustice of this Instigation Act, Mr. Secretary? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0263par0204	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0264par0205	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask the Minister of Energy the first question: What is the number of thermal power plants thought to be built in Turkey? Is the idea of building a thermal plant in Turkey's paradise corners still ongoing? My second question is, will you feed Anamur banana to your children after the nuclear power plant has been built for the sake of God? Will you feed your children the strawberries of Silifke, and the lemon of Erdemite, and the apricots of Muthan, and the grapes of Tarsus, and those beautiful fish? Will you take your children into the sea in Mersin? For God's sake, I'm asking. I advise my friends not to do that. I'm an MP of Mersin, and as a physician, I'm not going to do that. Since I'm not going to do it, I don't know how anyone else would do it. Can't you see the future of Mersin is dark? The international agreement you made in Akkuyu...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0265par0210	Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0266par0211	Thank you, Mayor. Are you planning on privatizing the pipe, Mr. Secretary? The importance of the use of the boron is increasing day by day. Do you have projects in institutions like RD, BOREN? Do you plan to open an institute? In their village, in the village squares, in the alleys, the power poles are being pulled out, and the villages are being brought into darkness. Electric distribution companies justify your ministry. Will the problems of the blacked-out villages be solved? Do you have any work as government and ministry? Across the campus of Mughla University, just above the classrooms, over the students' high power lines. Do you have any work on removing these lines that cause serious health problems? Last question: The economy minister said the most important reason for the current deficit is the import of $50 billion in energy. When you come to power...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0267par0216	Mr. Özensoy...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0268par0217	Thank you. I'd like to ask the Minister of the EU: I see ads on the Ministry's websites. There's been this ad going on for months on a website. When we give these ads -- we're like newspapers. com- do these sites have a criteria for a ratings or click? Again, are you looking for a criteria for the journalists you take with you when you're traveling abroad, like a yellow press card or a job? How do you pay for these one-year-old journalists? How much funding has been paid in the last year? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0269par0221	Ten seconds to go, and I won't promise a friend. Mr. Ministers, I think most of all the questions have come to the Minister of Energy, so let's start there. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0270par0224	Mr. President, dear friends, I'd like to thank our friends for the questions. If you'd like the part of my speech that's incomplete, I'd like to start briefly because it's important. One of our deputies said it was a sales spree. Of course, as our people's welfare levels grow, of course, it's best to take advantage of all these opportunities, of course, but we want to give you a figure to see this painting completely, a number that has been developing in ten years. I'd like to talk about a new painting in many communities today where I've asked for predictions and almost never come close to those numbers. Turkey has a population of 73 million and 62 million mobile subscribers, 106 million cell phones in Turkey. Turkey's current electricity distribution of around $22 billion, I'm throwing out the change. That's a little over 22 billion from the cell phone we came from. In a total year, 149 billion/minute speeches are being held in Turkey. Especially on some nights, the number of texting in some lamps is 1 billion copies a day. There are GSM companies that turn around around $90 million a day. And 149 billion SMSs in a year.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0271par0227	Answer the questions, Mr. Secretary, the clock is ticking.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0270par0228	Friends, I've listened carefully to the questions, there's something I'd like to tell you, if you'll excuse me. The average amount of electricity per dwelling is around $50.5. Cell phone use per person is around $21. There's about 80 dollars of cell phones in a house, and I'd like to say that it's passed through a basic requirement, such as electricity. I'm not saying we're not gonna use a cell phone, of course we're gonna use a cell phone. In today's terms, we're going to use each of these as a measure of our prosperity, but ten years ago, when we were never talking about these turnovers, I wanted to give you the numbers that we're coming up with as a painting. Sometimes they ask about the boron. Guys, I can tell you that we have no privatisation policy related to the boron. We don't plan on privatizing pipes, guys. Bor is a strategic material for Turkey and for the region, and we have no privatisation policy related to the boron. There's more to it than that. If you find any boron in your yard, in your property, it's not just a commodity that's on your property, it's a public property that the public comes in and confiscates as property of the public, so it's strategic and important. This is about privatisation -- it's very often brought up -- we have no policy and no intentions. And we're not thinking about privatisation. It's going to happen in the hands of the public. And we're also the world's number-one seller, the US Borax American firm, and we're talking about a material that almost reaches 90 percent of the added value.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0272par0231	Mr. Secretary, if you could wrap it up...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0270par0232	Sir, my questions are too many, of course the answer to the question asked in ten minutes will take at least fifty-six minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0272par0233	Then give it to me in writing.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0270par0234	I'll answer in writing. Of course, one day's application for the subject of the RES is open to discussion in terms of procedure, and there has been about 76,000 megawatts of application. This was equal to the sum of all the REMs in the world at the time. That, of course, wasn't realistic in that sense. But it took time, of course, to get the applications to form a legality. I can safely say that in terms of public time, other energy sources will not make the same mistake, like the sun. It's about regulations...
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0273par0237	Five minutes to the others.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0270par0238	Well, thank you, Mayor.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0273par0239	Mr. CaIan, come in.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0274par0240	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I respectfully salute you all again. The questions I've been asked here, Mr. Oz, were first asked the rate of imports to meet exports. Yes, in 1996, exports were 53 percent, 54.1 percent in 97, 58.7 per cent in 98, and 51 per cent in 2000, and 60 per cent in later years. However, I would like to point out that today's exports are 55.3 percent if we look at them in the first ten months of 2011 as of now. Yes, about that -- and I said that in my speech -- all our efforts are to increase the rate of exports to meet imports. And I've just expressed that in an effective incentive system, without a single incentive system, it's about the value of Turkish lira and it's about the price of commodity in the world. At this point, more than $1.82 on the number, I'll tell you, exports are 55.3% on imports. In this regard, we are on the verge of making some very important decisions regarding incentives, so we've built all of our work on it. As in the chrome mine, this does not satisfy us in the export of many ore from Turkey to abroad. It's very important that these gems be processed and sent with high value. Two days ago, we opened a factory in Manisa, with 100 percent local entry from the quartz, and this will all be exported abroad. That's what we're building our incentive system on. So now we have to support high-velocity and high-tech products, as many countries do, in the export support system. Hopefully, we'll have finished the incentive system by the end of this year. In this regard, look, Turkey is the world's largest importer of iron steel scraps, $9 billion, and the world's most expensive importer of iron steel scraps. In the past, our industrial production was made in the iron steel industry, 78% of which are made from arc furnaces, or scraps. Therefore, in our system of incentives to prevent any past mistakes from being made again, we will take them as private strategic investments in many sectors, especially in the chemical sector, and bring them to our Turkey with very special incentives, and while I was doing this as Minister of Adana, I had no obligation to Adana, but I loved and willingly expressed it. Adana, Mersin because he's a really important duo. At this point, talks on international investments continue on the issue of major investments in Adana. Hopefully, if they end up together, we'll have the foundation of that investment together.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0275par0245	We're waiting, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0274par0246	As for visas, of course, this is a hypocritical act by the European Union to Turkey. On the one hand, the European Union, which does not grant a visa to a Turkish businessman, is allowing them to enter many non-European Union countries without visas by doing so differently. As for the green passport -- which Mr. Minister will certainly mention -- I want to make it clear that this is a law against Turkey, against Turkish businessmen, against human rights and against competition on the other hand. We express it every chance we get. The Minister is already doing his work here. I'll send my written answer to every question I can't answer, as usual. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0276par0250	Here you go, Mr. Donation.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0277par0251	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, the issue of giving these green passports to exporters, which, of course, has been discussed before, but this Sunday, we meet at four ministers of Konya. Under the Reform Watch Group Meeting, Mr. Interior Minister, Foreign Minister, Minister of Justice and I will hold a meeting with our bureaucratic friends to review EU reforms in Turkey. We'll discuss that proposal with our other ministers there. This is an issue that should ultimately focus on our Ministry of Internal Affairs, but we know from our experience in the past years that if we take a step like this, some countries will be able to get a visa for green passport holders, and we need to do it well. There was a question, Mr. President, about the journalists coming on our trips abroad. Of course, we care about the EU process in Turkey, for public information, for the help of our journalists. There's a concept called EU literacy, and it would cost a lot more if we tried to advertise it. Many journalists are elected from among those who know about diplomacy, about the European Union, about Turkish foreign policy, and who can enlighten the community. Some of them meet their own interests and obligations, but if our government... Thank God we have planes under the Prime Minister's command now, so if we've been given a plane, if we have room on that plane, we can accommodate them. You asked about some of the ads on some of the websites. Yes, some websites contain announcements, banners, ads for our EU process. These are published for free. If there's any website that you'd recommend and agree to publish for free, we'd be happy to give them the same graphics. This process, as I said earlier, is the common process of Turkey's reform process, Turkey's democratisation process. We expect all of our media agencies and NGOs to support this process as well as all of our deputies. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-12sit06spe0278par0257	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'll have the budgets in the seventh round read separately and put them to your votes. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Economics will take part in the central management budget in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 1. (Economy Ministry Central Management Budget for 2012) [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 479,050.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defence Services 12,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 800,918,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 1,279,980.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Economics was adopted in 2012 as part of the central management budget. Undersecretary of Foreign Trade in 2010, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 1. ▪ Foreign Trade Undersecretary Central Management Final Account for 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 129,187,043,00 - Budget Expenses: 127,068,322,62 - Canceled allowance: 2.118,720,38 (A) Those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Foreign Trade Undersecretary was adopted as part of the central management account in 2010. I submit to your votes that the export development center of the central management account in 2010 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 1. ▪ Export Development EDUD Center 2010 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 15,379,500,00 - Budget Expenses: 12.418,067,93 - Canceled allowance: 2.961.432.07 (A) Those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] - Budget estimate: 15,379,500,00 - Net Collection of the Year: 13.293,997,04 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Department of Export Development is considered part of the central management account in 2010. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of the European Union will take part in the central management budget of 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 25 ENGINES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION 1. ▪ Ministry of the European Union Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 150,721.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 450,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 151,171.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of the European Union adopted parts of the central management budget in 2012. The Secretary General of the European Union, in 2010, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 1. ▪ European Union Secretary General's Central Management Final Account for 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 25.263,257.00 - Budget Expenses: 21.050.010.66 - Canceled allowance: 4,213,246,34 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The European Union's General Secretaryship was adopted in 2010 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources take part in the central management budget of 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 20- ENERGY AND RETURN OF ENERGY 1. ▪ Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 421.908,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defence Services 26,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.550,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 168,043,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 591.527,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources in 2010, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration will be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for Central Management Final Account for 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 448,568,014.00 - Budget Expenses: 242.994.915.30 - Canceled allowance: 205,573,098,70 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources was adopted in 2010 as part of its final account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes that the energy market regulatory agency will take part in the central management budget in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 40.05/ENERGY PIECE PRODUCTION 1. ▪ Energy Market Editing Institution 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 9.765,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 35,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,800,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 04 Economic Affairs and Services 103,985,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained TOPLAM 115.585,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Energy Market Editing Institution was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 106,200,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 10,750,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Red and Returns (-) -1.365,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 115.585,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Energy Market Editing Institution was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of 2010 will be transferred to its chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ Energy Market Editing Institution 2010 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 116,140,000.00 - Budget Expenses 98.070.096.16 - Canceled allowance: 18,069,903,84 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] - Budget estimate: 98,640.000.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 145,976,268,21 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Energy Market Editing Agency was adopted in 2010 as part of its final account of central management. I would like to submit to your votes that the National Bor Research Institute will take part in the central management budget in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 40.26....... the..... 1. ▪ National Borborial Research Institute Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 04 Economic Affairs and Services 9.420,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 9.420.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The National Institute of Bor Research was adopted in 2012 as part of the central management budget. [[TL]] 04 Special Incomes With Funds and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 2,750,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 9.420.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The National Institute of Bor Research was adopted in 2012 as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the National Institute of Bor Research, in 2010, take part in the final account of central management, those in favor of... Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ National Borborial Research Institute Central Management Final Account for 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 9.365,000.00 - Budget Expenses 5.924,009,83 - Canceled allowance: 3.440.990,17 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] - Budget estimate 9.065,000.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 6,449,221,49 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The National Bor Research Institute was adopted in 2010 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of 2010 will be transferred to the departments of the Department of Electrical Affairs Ethics Administration: Those who don't... Sustained. ELECTRIC WORKS INDISTINCT INVESTIGATION 1. ▪ Central Management Final Account for 2010 General Directorate of Electrical Affairs Ethics (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 52,989.000.00 - Budget Expenses 39,706,967,88 - Aborted allowance: 13.282.032,12 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] - Budget estimate: 49,937,000.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 34,566,532,09 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Department of Electrical Affairs Department of Education has been adopted as part of its final account of central management in 2010. I submit to your votes that Turkey's Atomic Energy Corporation will take part in the central management budget in 2012: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 40.27....................................................................................................................... 1. ▪ Turkish Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 9.399.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,100,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 91,940.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 102,439.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency has been adopted as part of the central management budget for 2012. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 13.630.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 88,439.000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 370,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 102,439.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency has been adopted as part of the central management budget for 2012. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Atomic Energy Foundation shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2010: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ Turkish Atomic Energy Foundation for Central Management Final Account for 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 105,337,678.07 - Budget Expenses 74,384,655.03 - Canceled allowance: 30,953,023.04 - Payment transferred to the following year : 1.072.697.82 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] - Budget forecast: 84,736,000.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 70,913,213.15 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Turkish Atomic Energy Agency was adopted as part of its final account of central management in 2010. I submit to your votes that the Departments of the Central Management Budget of 2012, the Department of Mines Review and Search Directorate, those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 40.40/ MADEN DETECTIVE AND EARCH GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1. ▪ Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 61,853,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defence Services 136,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,500,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 295,335,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 358.824,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Department of Mining Study and Search was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 40.025,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 314,824,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 3.975,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 358.824,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Department of Mining Study and Search was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2010 will be transferred to the chapters of the Mining Study and Search Directorate: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ Mine Study and Search General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 274.720.832.54 - Budget Expenses 237.050.483.79 - Canceled allowance: 37,670,348,75 - Payment transferred to the following year: 6,229,804.77 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] - Budget estimate: 231,071.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 169,135,639.28 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Mining Study and Search General Directorate of 2010 has been adopted into parts of its final account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes that the departments of the central management account for 2010, those in favor of... Those who don't... Sustained. 1. ▪ Petroleum General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 5.425.007.00 - Budget Expenses 5.079.691.94 - Canceled allowance: 345.315.06 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. Thus, the central management budgets of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, Energy Market Editing Agency, National Bor Research Institute, Turkish Atomic Energy Agency and Mine Research and Search Directorate in 2012 and the final management accounts of central management in 2010; the central management budgets of the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of the European Union and the Ministry of European Affairs in 2012 and the final accounts of the central management budgets of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, the Development Development Centre, the European Union's General Secretary-General, the Director-General of Electric Affairs and Petrol Affairs in 2010. I wish them well. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. Tuesday (December 13th 2011) to discuss the budgets and precise accounts of the institutions, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
